Corporate Governance Report The Board recognises that it is very important to maintain high standards of corporate governance, as it sets the standard and values for the entire Group.
The Board seeks to comply with best practice in all areas of corporate governance and sets out below how the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 the Code have been adopted and implemented by the Company.
The Code is available from FRC Publications tel 020 8247 1246 and online at www.
This Report forms part of the Directors Report.
The Board The Directors have a wide breadth of experience to provide the entrepreneurial leadership required to effectively manage the Company.
The Board consists of the Chairman, three executive Directors and six non-executive Directors.
The executive Directors provide a direct line of control between the Company and its operating businesses.
The non-executive Directors provide a balance to the Board and bring a wide range of experience.
The Board considers all non-executive Directors to be independent.
The Board routinely meets six times a year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its consideration and decision.
This schedule includes the approval of financial and marketing strategy, major investments, annual and half year results, review of performance, dividend policy, monitoring risk, ensuring adequate financial resources are available and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Chairman sets the agenda for the Board ensuring it has timely information to ensure it is able to operate effectively.
The Chairman and the Chief Executives roles and responsibilities are clearly defined by the Board in writing.
The Board met on seven occasions in 2009, including an annual strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year except that Hamish Leslie Melville and Jeff Fairburn were each unable to attend one Board meeting.
Directors The Senior Independent Director is David Thompson.
David Thompson joined the Board in August 1999 and has now served more than nine years on the Board.
As Senior Independent Director his primary responsibility is maintaining relationships with the Companys major shareholders.
Mr Thompson is also Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Company consulted with its major shareholders setting out the reasons why it would be appropriate for David Thompson to remain as Senior Independent Director beyond nine years and received a positive response.
The Board considers David Thompson to be independent, despite his long service.
This is because his long standing appointment has not and does not in any way affect his objectivity and ability to advise and question the executive Directors, particularly in respect of strategy and the Companys financial affairs.
His long association with the Company has given him a sound and detailed knowledge of the Companys business which has enabled him to consider and evaluate information and responses from the executive Directors quickly and concisely.
David Thompson will retire at the AGM and be available for re-election to the Board on an annual basis in the future.
Neil Davidson has completed six years service on the Board and is also offering himself for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Mr Davidson is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman has reviewed both David Thompsons and Neil Davidsons performance and he believes that their performance continues to be very effective.
The Board considers it important to continue to have access to the wise counsel of both David Thompson and Neil Davidson in managing the Company in the current market conditions.
Hamish Leslie Melville has also completed more than nine years service as a non-executive Director.
After 15 years of excellent service as an independent non-executive Director Mr Leslie Melville will be retiring at the AGM in 2010 and will not be seeking re-election.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and may also seek independent professional advice and training, at the Companys expense.
The Board receives appropriate information on best practice and legislation to carry out its duties.
All executive Directors have 12 month rolling contracts.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Details of the powers of the Directors, including the issue and buyback of Company shares, the appointment of Directors and amendment of the Companys Articles of Association can be found on pages 30 to 31.
Board evaluation The Board and the Audit Committee undertake a written self-evaluation of their performance.
A verbal evaluation of the performance of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees are undertaken by the Committees.
The non-executive Directors undertake a verbal annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
The Chairman undertakes a verbal evaluation of the executive Directors performance.
As a result of the evaluations during 2008 and 2009, a number of procedural and other changes have been implemented.
As an example, the Board are provided with additional executive management reports and accounts to ensure they have detailed knowledge of the Companys progress in the current challenging market conditions.
Any training requirements are reviewed as part of the evaluation process.
The Board and its Committees reviewed the evaluations and are satisfied that the Board and its Committees remain effective.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 39 Corporate Governance Report Conflicts of interest The Company has procedures in place to ensure that Directors disclose any situation in which they may have an interest, direct or indirect, which conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
No authority to authorise a conflict of interest has been necessary.
Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are John White Chairman, David Thompson, Nicholas Wrigley and Neil Davidson.
Mr Davidson was appointed to the Committee on 24 February 2010 on Hamish Leslie Melvilles retirement from the Committee.
The Committee met twice during 2009, to review and consider the composition of the Board and make recommendations of new appointments to the Board.
There was full attendance by all members at the Committee meetings.
When David Bryant retired from the Board on 23 April 2009 the Board asked the Nomination Committee to consider the appointment of a new executive Director from the Groups Divisional Boards.
Subsequently the Committee recommended the appointment of Jeff Fairburn, North Division Chief Executive to the Board.
Mr Fairburn joined the Company in 1989 and was formerly Managing Director of Persimmon Homes North East and North East Regional Chairman.
He was appointed as North Division Chief Executive in 2006 and subsequently on his appointment to the Board on 1 June 2009 was given additional Group managerial responsibilities.
The Board also instructed the Committee in 2009 to recommend a new non-executive Director who would bring new skills and expertise to the Board.
The Nomination Committee consulted the Board, some major shareholders and its merchant bankers in connection with the appointment.
The Committee did not use a recruitment agency or open advertising as it did not consider that this would have assisted in the recruitment of a high calibre non-executive Director with the right skills to compliment the Board.
The Committee recommended Jonathan Davie to the Board and he was subsequently appointed with effect from 1 January 2010.
Mr Davie has undertaken a comprehensive induction with the Company and has had detailed discussions with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Company Secretary.
The Committee is satisfied that appropriate succession planning for the Board and senior management is in place.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Nicholas Wrigley Chairman, David Thompson and Neil Davidson.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year to consider and approve the remuneration arrangements for both executive Directors and the Chairman during 2009 and 2010.
The Committee members all attended each meeting.
Details of the remuneration policy and the remuneration package for each Director serving during 2009 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38.
The Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2010.
Accountability and Audit The Company has an established Audit Committee to whom the external auditors, KPMG Audit plc report.
During 2009 the Audit Committee was wholly comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
The members of the Committee are David Thompson Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, Richard Pennycook and Jonathan Davie.
All members of the Committee have recent relevant financial experience: please see the Directors biographies on page 27.
Mr Davie was appointed to the Committee on 24 February 2010, on Neil Davidsons retirement from the Committee.
The role of the Audit Committee is to review the Companys financial reporting, monitor the Companys internal controls including the risk management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated accounts, monitor the Group Risk management function and oversee the Companys relations with external auditors.
The Committees terms of reference were adopted on 25 February 2004.
During the year the Board reviewed the Committees terms of reference and a number of minor amendments were made.
The terms of reference of the Group Risk management function, which are recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board, were unchanged in 2009.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year, and all members were in attendance at each meeting.
The Committee agreed the nature and scope of the audit with the auditors and monitored the quarterly findings of the auditors and Group Risk Manager.
The Committee regularly met the auditors without the presence of the Companys management.
The Committee Chairman also met the Group Risk Manager without the Companys management being present.
The Audit Committee formulates and oversees the Companys policy on monitoring auditor objectivity and independence in relation to non-audit services.
The policy is to ensure that the nature of non-audit services performed or the fee income relative to the audit fee does not compromise or is not seen to compromise the auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditors are excluded from undertaking a range of work on behalf of the Company which includes appraisal or valuation services, management functions and litigation support, legal accounting and remuneration services.
From time to time non-audit services are put out to tender to a number of accountants.
The Committee recommended the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors.
The Company has had a whistle blowing procedure in place for a number of years which is publicised in the Staff Handbook and on Company noticeboards.
All employees may raise concerns about malpractice or improper or potentially illegal behaviour in confidence without concern of victimisation or disciplinary action.
The Committee reviewed the procedures in 2009 which were again highlighted to staff.
There are appropriate procedures in place for the independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
40 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 Corporate Governance Report Internal Control and Risk Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
All employees have some responsibility for internal control as part of their accountability for achieving objectives.
The Company has complied with the Code provisions on internal control, having continued to operate the procedures necessary to implement the guidance issued in the Turnbull Committee Report revised October 2005 throughout the year.
The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing the Boards responsibilities with respect to risk and internal control.
Specifically this includes determining appropriate control procedures and the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
The members of the Risk Committee during 2009 were John White, Mike Farley, Mike Killoran and the Divisional Chief Executives Jeff Fairburn, David Thornton and Nigel Greenaway.
The Risk Committee is supported by the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit Committee, which oversees the Risk Committees activities.
As part of its ongoing activities, the Group Risk management function has updated the Groups risk assessment during the year.
The results of this process have been reported to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a risk focused programme of work designed to improve business processes and increase internal control effectiveness.
The Group Risk Management function has updated the risk register during the year to reflect the changing risk profile facing the Group.
The risk register has been approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
The Risk Committee met six times during 2009 ensuring that there has been an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks that are faced by the Company.
The processes that the Risk Committee has applied in 2009 in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following: Review of the process for preparing consolidated accounts: Review of reports produced by the Group Risk management function on internal control and management of risk: Review of representations on risk and control from all Managing Directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control within their operating businesses: Review of representations on risk and control from key head office and divisional management: Reviewing reports from the Corporate Responsibility Committee with particular reference to the social, environmental, sustainability and reputational risks facing the Group.
The members of the Risk Committee completed the following tasks during the year.
These tasks are essential parts of the Groups control framework: Providing clearly defined responsibilities to divisional boards to maintain effective controls on operating businesses: Maintaining a continuous detailed involvement in monitoring and controlling work in progress, controls over land acquisition procedures and financial reporting by operating businesses: Regular site visits and discussion with site based personnel by senior management: Ongoing review of Company performance in comparison to operational forecasts and financial budgets: Involvement in individual operating businesses board discussions, specifically operational board meetings where all aspects of operational performance are analysed.
Upon completion of these processes the Risk Committee formally considered the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The review for 2009 has been completed and approved by the Risk and Audit Committees.
A detailed Group Risk programme of work for 2010 has been approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Combined Code The Board supports high standards in corporate governance and continues to review the Companys procedures to maintain proper control and accountability.
The Company complied with the Code throughout 2009.
The Board Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website or from the Company Secretary.
Relations with shareholders The Board continues to maintain good relations with the Companys shareholders and believes it is important that shareholders receive timely information on their Companys progress.
As well as the announcement of half year and final results, the Company issues regular trading and interim management statements to the London Stock Exchange.
Details of significant shareholdings in the Company can be found on page 28 together with details of the voting rights attached to the Companys shares.
As set out on page 30 there are no securities issued by the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Directors recognise that it is important for both private and institutional shareholders to have the opportunity to raise concerns or discuss matters with them.
The Group Chairman John White and the Senior Independent Director David Thompson maintain contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and report to the Board.
Mike Farley and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining appropriate communications with institutional investors and analysts.
The Board is provided with reports and feedback from shareholders and analysts.
All the Directors attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions at the AGM or privately.
By order of the Board Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 1 March 2010 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 41
