AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Summary of the role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Company and has defined Terms of Reference.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference include matters indicated by the Combined Code and are available on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: considering the appointment or removal of the External Auditors of the Group, reviewing their fees and their objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit, and reviewing the nature and extent of non-auditing services provided by the External Auditors, seeking to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money: discussing with the External Auditors, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and considering its cost-effectiveness and, where more than one firm of External Auditors is involved, ensuring coordination between them: reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance before submission to the Board, focusing particularly on: any changes in accounting policies and practices: major judgemental areas: significant adjustments: the going concern assumption: compliance with accounting standards: compliance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority: and compliance with other applicable legal requirements.
discussing problems and reservations arising from the preparation and audit of such financial statements, and any matters which the External Auditors may wish to discuss in the absence of management where necessary : reviewing the External Auditors management letters and the response thereto of the management of the Company or any other company in the Group: reviewing the Companys statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the Board: reviewing the internal financial control systems of the Group and reviewing the internal audit programme and procedures, ensuring co-ordination between the External Auditors and the Internal Auditors, and ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group: considering the major findings of internal investigations and the response of management thereto: and considering such other matters as the Board may from time to time refer to it.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and to make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee The current members of the Audit Committee are: Name Date of appointment to the Committee Sir Malcolm Field Chairman of the Audit Committee 22 April 2009 Graham Birch 12 February 2010 1 Peter Hill Wood 25 June 2009 Charles McVeigh 25 June 2009 1 Member of the Committee between 12 June 2003 and 16 April 2009, re-appointed on 25 June 2009.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Company Chairman, who is not a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they recommend to the Board any new appointments to the Committee.
The Committee is normally comprised of at least three Non-Executive Directors and two members constitute a quorum.
The Board considers that both Sir Malcolm Field and Charles McVeigh have recent and relevant financial experience through their careers in business and their appointments to other Boards.
The Company has a policy of providing training to Directors where required.
Ongoing training can include attendance at formal conferences, internal briefings, briefings by external advisers and visits by Directors to operations in the business.
82 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an understanding of: the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial reporting including the applicable accounting standards: key aspects of the Groups operations including corporate policies, Group financing, and systems of internal control: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts: the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: and environmental and social responsibility best practices.
Meetings The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar, including a review of the Companys annual and half-yearly results, the review of the internal controls of the Group and ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly reported on and monitored.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is approved by the Audit Committee Chairman in advance of each meeting.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the routine items.
The Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Internal Auditor and a representative of the External Auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Senior management present such reports as are requested by the Committee to enable it to discharge its duties.
Details of attendance by Directors at Audit Committee meetings are set out on page 63 of the Annual Report.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge its duties Following the acquisition by the Company of Aricom plc in April 2009, the Board considered the appointment of External Auditors to the Company and recommended to shareholders at the 2009 AGM that Deloitte LLP be appointed as the new External Auditors to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2009.
In addition, since the beginning of 2009 the Audit Committee has: reviewed the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2008, the Interim Report for the period ended 30 June 2009 and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Committee received a report from the External Auditors on their audit of the accounts and review of the interim report: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the External Auditors: recommended to the Board the fees to be paid to the External Auditors for their audit of the 2009 accounts: recommended to the Board that a Financial Reporting Procedures review should take place: reviewed the Letters of Representation provided to the External Auditors relating to the financial periods ended 31 December 2008, 30 June 2009 and 31 December 2009: reviewed the Letter of Engagement relating to the review and audit for the financial periods ended 30 June 2009 and 31 December 2009 respectively: reviewed the going concern status of the Company and the ability to publish a going concern statement in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009: reviewed an assessment of the potential impairment of the Companys assets: reviewed the accounting treatment relating to the Group projects and to the allocations under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan: reviewed the financial risks associated with the Groups business: reviewed the Internal Audit Plan for 2009 and key audit themes for 2010: reviewed the Internal Audit Reports prepared by the Companys Internal Auditor, including the review of key issues raised by the Internal Auditor and key audit findings: reviewed the membership of the Audit Committee: and adopted new terms of reference.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 83 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External Auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors and their compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
Day-to-day responsibility has been assigned to the Chief Financial Officer.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the objectivity and independence of the External Auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the changes in key external audit staff in the External Auditors plan for the current year: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the External Auditors, in addition to their case by case approval of the provision of non-audit services by the External Auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the External Auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the External Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the plan: and the robustness and perceptiveness of the External Auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the External Auditors are re-appointed.
Internal Audit function The Group employs an Internal Auditor, who reports to the Audit Committee.
He prepares reports for each Audit Committee meeting and is invited to attend all meetings.
The Audit Committee is required to review the Groups internal financial controls and, where required, to review the Groups internal control and risk management systems and the Groups statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the Board.
The Internal Auditor reports to the Audit Committee on the review of internal controls, in conjunction with the CFO.
The CFO monitors internal controls and reports to the Committee as appropriate.
The CFO in conjunction with the Audit Committee, which has ultimate responsibility for such review, is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls.
In the course of the reporting received from the Internal Auditor and the CFO, the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal controls procedure.
The Groups internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business objectives and does not provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It is the intention of the Audit Committee to consolidate and build on this process throughout 2010.
The Board has established a Risk Committee, consisting of independent Non-Executive Directors, which has delegated the management of financial risk to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee receives reports on financial risk from the CFO and these reports are also reviewed by the Risk Committee.
The Board receives reports from the chairman of both the Audit and Risk Committees following each committee meeting and reviews risk areas of concern as appropriate.
The Risk Committee, Audit Committee and the Board review risk reporting with the aim of managing and controlling risk.
Executive Management within the Group takes responsibility for the line management of risk and the Audit Committee and the Board, in the course of the review of regular reporting, monitor the improvements and status of risk management.
Further details of the Companys risks are in the Principal Risks Report on pages 47 to 51 of the Annual Report.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at this years Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Audit Committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Sir Malcolm Field Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 March 2010 84 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
