CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Combined Code This statement forms part of the Directors report on pages 54 to 61 of the Annual Report and information disclosed under Rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules may be found in this statement and the Directors report.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Listing Authority requires companies incorporated in the United Kingdom and listed on the Official List to disclose how they have applied the Main Principles set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code.
This report, together with the Directors Report, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 or, where the Company has not complied with the Combined Code, explains the reasons why.
The Combined Code is publicly available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council, www.
Statement of compliance The Group has been in compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 save that: the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were not separated for the period to 21 April 2009.
Since 22 April 2009, these roles have been separated: the Board did not contain sufficient independent Non-Executive Directors for the period to 21 April 2009 to comprise half the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Since 22 April 2009 the constitution of the Board has satisfied this requirement: the Chairman is not independent for the purposes of the Combined Code: no member of the Audit Committee was deemed to have recent and relevant financial experience until the appointment of Sir Malcolm Field on 22 April 2009 and Charles McVeigh on 25 June 2009: and the Committees of the Board were not made up of at least three independent Non-Executive Directors throughout the year.
The current committee membership is shown on page 66.
The Board is responsible for ensuring an appropriate level of corporate governance and intends, save to the extent otherwise disclosed, to continue to comply with the main provisions of the Combined Code.
Directors The Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors, chaired by Peter Hambro.
The Board currently consists of a Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent under the Combined Code see Board balance and independence on page 65.
The Board believes that it is appropriate to have a Senior Independent Director and Peter Hill-Wood fulfils this role.
Details of the individuals skills and experience are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 52 to 53 of the Annual Report.
The Board meets regularly, on at least six scheduled occasions during each year, and more frequently if necessary.
There were six scheduled Board meetings, five Audit Committee meetings, seven Remuneration Committee meetings, three Nomination Committee meetings, three Risk Committee meetings and four HSE Committee meetings held in the year under review.
In addition, a further 33 Board or Committee meetings were held to issue formal approvals, or deal with other matters of a routine or administrative nature, which did not require attendance of the full Board.
The attendance by Directors who held office during the year was as follows: 62 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Unscheduled Board Audit Remuneration Nomination HSE Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 3 Peter Hambro 6 20 4 6 3 4 3 Pavel Maslovskiy 5 5 2 1 1 1 2 6 Brian Egan 5 18 4 1 1 1,2, 3,6 Sir Malcolm Field 6 9 4 5 3 1 1 2,4, 5 Lord Guthrie 6 9 1 5 2 4 3 1,3, 4,5 Peter Hill-Wood 6 20 4 4 3 4 3 2,4, 5,6 Sir Roderic Lyne 5 4 1 4 1 3 2 1,3, 7 Charles McVeigh 4 2 3 3 1 1 9 Sir Rudolph Agnew 2 5 2 4 1 1 8 Jay Hambro 2 2 1 8 Andrey Maruta 2 10 5 8 Alexei Maslovskiy 2 1 8 Alfiya Samokhvalova 2 9 4 8 Karolina Subczynska 3 5 1 1 Current member of the Audit Committee.
2 Current member of the Remuneration Committee.
3 Current member of the Nomination Committee.
4 Current member of the HSE Committee.
5 Current member of the Risk Committee.
6 Appointed as a Director on 22 April 2009.
7 Appointed as a Director on 25 June 2009.
8 Resigned as a Director on 20 April 2009.
9 Resigned as a Director on 2 June 2009.
Directors are only eligible to attend Board and committee meetings during the period in which they hold office as a Director.
Directors who attended Committee meetings but are not members of those Committees did so at the invitation of the Committee.
In addition, there were 11 Executive Committee meetings in 2009 attended by the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Board is responsible for the determination and monitoring of the Companys strategic aims, budgets, major items of capital expenditure and senior appointments, the direction and control of the Company and the management of the capital structure.
The Board will seek to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board works closely with the operational management to achieve the Companys objectives.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, such matters include: responsibility for strategy and management, including responsibility for the overall management of the Company, approval of long-term objectives and strategy, approval of budgets, review of performance and oversight and review of the Groups operations: compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations: changes to structure and capital: approval of accounting policies and of financial results: identification and detection of fraud: responsibility for sound systems of internal control: approval of major investments, acquisitions and disposals of investments or assets and contracts: approval of material press releases and communications with shareholders: review of Board and Committee composition, following recommendations by the Nomination Committee: review of remuneration policy, following recommendations by the Remuneration Committee: delegations of authority to Board Committees: corporate governance matters: and approval of Group policies.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board continued The Board has appointed an Executive Committee, consisting of senior management, and has delegated to this committee the authority to make decisions relating to the day-to-day management of the Company and to ensure that the overall objectives and targets set out by the Board are achieved.
The Executive Committee has the authority to approve transactions considered to be in the ordinary course of business and to approve expenditure and financial commitments in accordance with limits previously agreed by the Board.
The Executive Committee has a duty to further the strategy, business objectives and targets established by the Board and to manage the Companys operations, financial, administration, health and safety and environmental performance.
The Executive Committee is also responsible for maintaining relationships with shareholders and other key stakeholders, for investigating merger and acquisition opportunities and for reviewing internal control and risk management.
Further information on the Executive Committee is set out on page 69.
Individual Directors may seek independent advice at the expense of the Company, subject to following an agreed procedure.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive of the Company were not separated throughout the year under review as Peter Hambro fulfilled both roles until 22 April 2009 and therefore, prior to that date, the Company did not comply with the Combined Code requirement that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated and have been set out in writing.
On 22 April 2009 Pavel Maslovskiy was appointed as Chief Executive of the Company whilst Peter Hambro retained the role of Chairman and therefore the Company currently complies with the relevant Combined Code requirement.
The Chairman is responsible for: running the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agendas: ensuring there is appropriate delegation of authority from the Board to Executive Management: ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: managing Board discussions: facilitating the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and ensuring a constructive relationship between all Directors: ensuring development needs of Directors are met: ensuring performance of the Board and Directors is evaluated at least once a year: ensuring a clear structure and effective operation of the Board committees: providing coherent leadership of the Company: and ensuring the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board to ensure that Directors develop an understanding of their views.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: developing Group objectives and strategy: successful achievement of objectives and execution of strategy, following approval by the Board: recommending the annual budget to the Board and ensuring its achievement: examining all investments and major capital expenditure proposed by Group companies and, if material, recommending to the Board: identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals: identifying and executing new business opportunities: managing the Groups risk profile: ensuring appropriate internal control procedures are in place: ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions: and supervising activities of Group subsidiaries.
64 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information The Chairman and Chief Executive are jointly responsible for: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: setting Group HR policies, including management development and succession planning for the senior executive team: leading the management team in the day-to-day running of the Groups business: developing and recommending to the Board for approval and implementation the code of ethics of business practice, share dealing code, health and safety policy, risks and procedures, communications policy, investor relations policy, corporate social responsibility policy, charitable donations policy: and providing coherent leadership of the Group.
The Chairman routinely holds discussions with Non-Executive Directors without the other Executive Directors being present.
Led by the Senior Non-Executive Director, the independent Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present at least once a year to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman and Group Head of External Communications ensure there is communication with shareholders and participate in regular and ongoing visits to major shareholders.
Board balance and independence The Board believes that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of experience and skills, but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
The Board includes a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that no individual, or group of individuals, can dominate the Boards decision making.
No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
The Board keeps the membership of committees under review to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
Under the Combined Code, one of the Non-Executive Directors who held office for the part of the year under review would not be viewed as independent under the Combined Code.
Jay Hambro was not considered independent, as at the time he was a Non-Executive Director he was a past employee of the Company, was a Director of Aricom plc now Aricom Limited, of which Peter Hambro and Pavel Maslovskiy were also Directors, and had a family connection with Peter Hambro.
Jay Hambro resigned as a Director on 20 April 2009 and, since that date, all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company can be considered independent.
The Combined Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors and therefore under Combined Code guidelines, the Company complies in this area.
The Board will hold under review the future appointment of additional independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board reviews the independence of the Directors annually and any new appointments will be made after consideration of the independence of Directors.
The Boards policy and management of potential conflict of interest situations is described in the Directors report on pages 54 to 61 of the Annual Report.
All three members of the Remuneration Committee and four of the five members of the Nomination Committee are considered independent Non-Executive Directors under the Combined Code.
The Combined Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee are independent and all four members of the Audit Committee members are deemed independent.
Peter Hill-Wood has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director and is deemed independent under the Combined Code.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Appointments to the Board and the Nomination Committee The Board follows an induction procedure for the appointment of Directors, included in which is the offer to major shareholders to meet the newly-appointed Director.
The Company has a separate Nomination Committee which is chaired by Peter Hambro.
The other members are Graham Birch, Sir Malcolm Field, Peter Hill-Wood and Charles McVeigh.
The Nomination Committee reviews the procedure for the appointment of new Directors, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and makes recommendations to the Board.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for Non-Executive Directorships, care is taken to ascertain whether they have sufficient time available to meet their Board and, where relevant, committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes and undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for public inspection.
No Director has a notice period of more than one year.
As a result of the acquisition by the Company of Aricom plc in April 2009, the composition of the Board was reviewed.
Details of the Directors who held office during the year are on page 55.
Charles McVeigh and Graham Birch were appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 25 June 2009 and 12 February 2010 respectively.
The Board made these appointments following consideration of a number of candidates including those proposed by an independent, external consultant.
The Board agreed that Charles McVeigh and Graham Birch were the most suitable candidates, with the most relevant and appropriate experience for the role.
The Chairman is a non-executive director of Russian Timber Group Limited, non-executive chairman of Sundeala Limited and a director of various subsidiaries of the Group.
Details of his other commitments are disclosed on page 52 of the Annual Report and Accounts and changes to these commitments will be reported to the Board.
Board committees The Board has established five committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of these committees as at the date of this report is shown below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination HSE Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Non-Executive Directors 1 Graham Birch Member Member Member Sir Malcolm Field Chairman Chairman Member Lord Guthrie Member Member Chairman Peter Hill-Wood Member Member Member Member 1 Sir Roderic Lyne Member Chairman Member 1 Charles McVeigh Member Member Executive Directors Peter Hambro Chairman Brian Egan Pavel Maslovskiy 1 Considered an independent Director under the Combined Code.
In addition the Company has appointed an Executive Committee, the members of which are Peter Hambro, Pavel Maslovskiy, Brian Egan, Dmitri Chekashkin, Jay Hambro, Yuri Makarov, Andrey Maruta, Alexei Maslovskiy, Alfiya Samokhvalova, Martin Smith, Karolina Subczynska and Andrei Tarasov.
Terms of Reference of these committees are available on the Companys website.
66 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Information and professional development The Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the Executive Directors or management.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the Companys operations needed to fulfil their role, for example, by regular briefings by executive management.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating all Directors knowledge and capabilities, both on appointment and on an ongoing basis.
On appointment to the Board, each Director is given the opportunity to meet key personnel of the Company in order to gain a full understanding of the operations of the Group and is offered the ongoing formal training required in order to fulfil the role.
In addition, the Company Secretary provides corporate governance guidance.
In addition, Board committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to obtain such additional support and professional advice as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
All Directors have access to the services of a  and experienced Company Secretary, who is responsible for information flows to the Board and its committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors, facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required, ensuring compliance with Board procedure and applicable laws and regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a Board decision.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if considered necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, and at the Companys expense.
Performance evaluation The Board follows a formal annual evaluation process for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the performance review of each Executive Director and the independent Non-Executive Directors are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board has adopted a formal performance evaluation procedure for the Board as a whole and for the committees, whereby the Directors complete questionnaires which are collated and reviewed by the Senior Non-Executive Director prior to review by the Board, which considers and reviews the findings of the process.
The 2009 evaluation process raised the issue of expanding the skill base of the Board and this was duly considered by the Board, resulting in the appointment of Graham Birch.
Suggestions were also made with regard to the effectiveness of discussion of key issues and the Board subsequently held a strategy meeting to facilitate and focus on such discussions.
Re-election of Directors The Board formally reviews succession plans for all key management roles, including Executive Directorships, on an ongoing basis.
All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment by the Board and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
In addition, the appointment of each Director is reviewed by other members of the Board prior to that Director seeking re-election at a forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
At this years Annual General Meeting, it is intended that Charles McVeigh and Graham Birch will stand for re-election following their appointment to the Board on 25 June 2009 and 12 February 2010 respectively.
The Directors retiring by rotation are Lord Guthrie and Pavel Maslovskiy.
Biographical details of all Directors are included on pages 52 to 53 of the Annual Report.
Remuneration and the Remuneration Committee While the Board and the Remuneration Committee are ultimately responsible for Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, consisting solely of Non-Executive Directors, is responsible for reviewing the performance and determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of Executive Directors and senior executives.
The scale and structure of remuneration is based on the Directors service agreements, paying due regard to the interests of shareholders and the performance of the Group.
Performance-related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package of Executive Directors.
The remuneration policy is designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors with the necessary skills and experience to manage the Groups operations.
Directors abstain from decisions determining their own remuneration and are not present at meetings when their remuneration is discussed.
The Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 81 of the Annual Report outlines the remuneration policy and contains full details of Directors emoluments.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Remuneration and the Remuneration Committee continued Where the Company releases an Executive Director to serve as a non-executive director elsewhere, the Remuneration Report includes a statement as to whether or not the Director will retain such earnings and if so, what the remuneration is.
The Board approves the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, within the limits set in the Articles of Association.
The level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the commitment and responsibilities of the role.
The Companys current policy is that no compensation is payable when a Directors appointment is terminated.
The Company currently operates a Long Term Incentive Plan which was introduced following shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
This provides long-term incentives to Executive Directors and key employees.
Accountability and Audit and the Audit Committee The Board and the Audit Committee pay careful attention to ensuring that all documents released by the Group and the Company, including the Annual Report and Financial Statements, present an accurate, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group and the Companys position and prospects.
The Board is responsible for the Group and the Companys system of internal controls and conducts an annual review of their effectiveness.
This review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Company has established an Audit Committee, which is a formally constituted committee of the Board with defined terms of reference.
All of the members of the Audit Committee are considered independent under the Combined Code.
The Board considers that two of the four members of the Audit Committee, Sir Malcolm Field and Charles McVeigh, have recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of their careers and membership of other Boards.
The membership of the Committee is held under review.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and among its specific responsibilities are a review of the Companys annual and half-yearly results, the review of the internal controls of the Group and ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly reported on and monitored.
The Audit Committee routinely receives reports relating to the internal and external audit process and discusses matters relating to both the Company and consolidated accounts and internal control.
The Companys Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee and this supplements all the other management reporting, discussion of risk and reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board by management and by the External Auditors on an ongoing basis.
Action will be taken where necessary to remedy any significant failings and weaknesses identified in the review of effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board relating to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditors, and for the review of the policy for the provision of non-audit services, taking into account the objectivity and independence of the External Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the non-audit services provided by the External Auditors and seeks confirmation from them that objectivity and independence is maintained.
The External Auditors attend all Audit Committee meetings and this confirmation is provided by both written reports and verbal explanations at meetings.
The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements by which the Companys employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties.
A whistleblowing policy has been adopted by the Board.
The Audit Committee report on pages 82 to 84 of the Annual Report summarises the role of the Audit Committee and work undertaken by it.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee HSE Committee The HSE Committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors and is responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems for identifying and managing health, safety and environmental risks within the Groups operations and for ensuring compliance with health, safety and environmental regulatory requirements.
The HSE Committee is also responsible for the assessment of the performance of the Group with regard to the impact of health, safety, environmental and community relations, decisions and actions.
Petropavlovsks environmental, health, safety and social policies are designed to comply with both Russian regulatory requirements as implemented under the supervision of the Environmental Protection Agency of the Russian Federation Rosprirodnadzor and with international good practice.
The Company uses all reasonable endeavours to comply with Global Reporting Initiative, the International Finance Corporation IFC performance standards on social and environmental sustainability as well as with the IFC Environmental, Health and Safety EHS guidelines.
68 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Risk Committee The Risk Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors and is responsible for the review of key risk areas and of the identification, evaluation and management of key risks.
The Risk Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the risk management strategy including the recommendation of any actions as may be necessary to address any weaknesses.
The Risk Committee is also responsible for the reinforcement of risk management principles within the Group and assessment of the effectiveness of and monitoring of internal controls.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board after each meeting.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee consists of the three Executive Directors and nine members of Senior Management and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company and for ensuring that the overall objectives and targets set out by the Board are achieved.
The Executive Committee ensures that the Board is kept up to date on all material events and makes recommendations regarding business objectives and the strategic direction and control of the Company.
The Executive Committee ensures coordination between senior managers, manages the Companys operations, financials, administration, health and safety and environmental performance and is responsible for the assessment and review of risk.
The Committee also approves transactions considered to be in the ordinary course of business, approves expenditure and other financial commitments in accordance with the budget, manages the Companys funding position, maintains relations with shareholders and other key stakeholders, investigates merger and acquisition opportunities, makes recommendations to the Board on internal control and risk management and reviews the adequacy of reporting arrangements and effectiveness of internal control and management.
Related party transactions The Company has established procedures to ensure that all transactions with related parties are reviewed and approved by members of the Board who have no conflict of interest in the given transaction.
Where appropriate, transactions are reviewed by a committee of members of the Board who are independent of the transaction.
Full details of the related party transactions are given in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Relations with shareholders The Combined Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Directors have regular and ongoing communication with shareholders throughout the year, by participating in investor roadshows, visits to shareholders and scheduled half-yearly updates.
Feedback from these visits is reported to the Board.
The Directors also have regular contact with analysts and brokers, which aids their understanding of the views of major shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman routinely offers shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself, the Group Head of External Communications or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy, remuneration or any other matters shareholders wish to raise.
The Group Head of External Communications is responsible for ensuring the maximum possible level of transparency between the Group, its shareholders and analysts.
The Company maintains a website at www.
net which is regularly updated and contains a wide range of information about the Group.
The Combined Code encourages boards to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
The Board welcomes as many shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are given the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to discuss any issues of interest or concern, including performance, governance or strategy, with the Directors.
At general meetings, the Chairman will announce the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against and abstentions, after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in respect of each substantially separate issue.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee, Risk Committee and HSE Committee will deal with matters relating to those committees.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Petropavlovsk PLC and signed on its behalf by: Heather Williams FCIS Company Secretary 24 March 2010 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 69
