Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code The Group complies, and complied throughout 2009, with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 which is publicly available at www.
The remainder of this section together with the remuneration report detail how the Group has applied these principles of good governance.
Composition and operation of the board The Combined Code requires that at least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent nonexecutive directors and the board currently comprises six executive directors, six independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
The Chairman was regarded as independent at the time of his appointment.
The executive directors are the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Technology Officer and the General Managers of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions, all of whom play significant roles in the day-to-day management of the business.
The board has considered the overall balance between executive and non-executive directors and believes that the number of executive directors is fully justified by the contribution made by each of them.
All directors have completed conflicts of interest questionnaires and any planned changes in their directorships outside the Group are subject to prior approval by the board.
No conflicts of interest arose in 2009 and no situations were identified that might lead to a conflict of interests.
The board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors on appointment and at appropriate intervals and considers the six non-executive directors to be independent in character, judgement and behaviour, based on both participation and performance at board and committee meetings.
There are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the judgement of any of them.
Jeremy Scudamore, who has a strong background in industry and commerce, is the Senior Independent Director.
In this role, he provides a communication channel between the Chairman and non-executive directors and is available to discuss matters with shareholders, if required.
Lucio Lanza, John Scarisbrick and Young Sohn all have a broad understanding of the Groups technology and the practices of major US-based technology companies.
Philip Rowley and Kathleen ODonovan are both financial experts with strong financial backgrounds.
The beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are set out in the remuneration report.
In the opinion of the board, these shareholdings do not detract from the non-executive directors independent status.
The table below shows directors attendance at scheduled board meetings and conference calls or ad hoc meetings which they were eligible to attend during the 2009 financial year: Scheduled Conference board calls ad hoc meetings meetings Number 7 5 Doug Dunn 7 7 5 5 Warren East 7 7 4 5 Tudor Brown 6 7 3 5 Mike Inglis 7 7 5 5 Lucio Lanza 7 7 5 5 Mike Muller 7 7 4 5 Kathleen ODonovan 6 7 5 5 Philip Rowley 7 7 5 5 John Scarisbrick 7 7 4 5 Tim Score 7 7 3 5 Jeremy Scudamore 7 7 5 5 Simon Segars 7 7 4 5 Young Sohn 7 7 5 5 The Chairman is a non-executive director of four other companies ST Microelectronics N. V. Soitec S. A. TomTom N. V. and B E Semiconductor Industries N. V. which he joined in May 2009, he does not chair any other board.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to influence agendas for board discussions and in 2009 were active in setting the agenda for the ongoing strategic review and ensuring the amount of time spent reviewing strategic and operational issues was appropriately balanced.
The board holds at least one meeting each year in one of the Groups overseas offices and spent three days visiting the Physical IP business in San Jose in 2009.
In the event that directors are unable to attend a meeting or a conference call they receive and read the papers for consideration at that meeting and have the opportunity to relay their comments and if necessary to follow up with the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting.
During 2009, the Chairman held at least five meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present and the non-executive directors met on at least one occasion without the Chairman being present.
The directors have the benefit of directors and officers liability insurance and there is an established procedure for individual directors, who consider it necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to obtain independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, all members of the board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
31 Corporate governance continued Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: leadership of the board and creating the conditions for overall board and individual director effectiveness and a constructive relationship with good communications between the executive and non-executive directors: ensuring that the board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development of strategy and overall commercial objectives: chairing the Nomination Committee which initiates succession planning to retain and build an effective and complementary board: ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders and that members of the board develop an understanding of the views of the major investors in the Company: promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company, particularly at board level: and ensuring that the performance of the board as a whole, its Committees, and individual directors is formally and rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer include: proposing and developing the Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives in conjunction with the executive committee: day-to-day management of the Group: managing the executive committee: leading the communication programme with shareholders and analysts: and fostering good relationships with key stakeholders.
Information and communication with shareholders Before each meeting, the board is provided with information concerning the state of the business and its performance in a form and of a quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the quarterly reports and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the Groups position, lies with the board.
The board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group to the executive committee and has a number of other committees, details of which are set out below.
The board makes considerable efforts to establish and maintain good relationships with shareholders.
The main channel of communication continues to be through the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the VP of Investor Relations, although the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors are available to engage in dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year other than during close periods.
The board also encourages communication with private investors and part of the Groups website is dedicated to providing accurate and timely information for all investors including comprehensive information about the business, its Partners and products, all press releases, RNS and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC announcements.
At present, around 30 analysts write research reports on the Group and their details appear on the Groups website.
Shareholders can also obtain telephone numbers from the website, enabling them to listen to earnings presentations and audio conference calls with analysts and in addition, webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations are made available through the website.
Members of the board attend the annual analyst and investor day and develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders through any direct contact that may be initiated by shareholders, or through analysts and brokers briefings.
The board also receives feedback from the Groups brokers and financial PR advisers, who obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following investor roadshows.
All shareholders may register to receive the Groups press releases via the internet.
The board actively encourages participation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, scheduled for 14 May 2010, which is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation is made outlining recent developments in the business and an open question-and-answer session follows to enable shareholders to ask questions about the business in general.
All resolutions proposed at the 2010 AGM will be decided on a poll and the voting results will be published via RNS and the SEC and will be available on the Groups website.
Board evaluation, induction and training The board undertakes an annual board evaluation.
During 2009, this exercise was conducted internally with directors completing detailed questionnaires which were compiled into a report by the Company Secretary.
This report was considered by the board and formed the basis for individual discussions between the Chairman and each director.
The evaluation covered: strategic development, execution and monitoring: risk management and control: leadership development and succession planning: shareholder and stakeholder communication: performance management: board structure, committees, operations and effectiveness: board committee processes: and induction, development and evaluation.
32 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The overall conclusion was that individual board members are satisfied that the board works well and operates effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the non-executive directors.
They are also satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that board committees operate properly and efficiently.
Various recommendations resulted from the evaluation which have been discussed by the board and will be acted upon in 2010, as appropriate.
It is intended that the board evaluation to be conducted in 2010 will involve external consultants.
A full, formal induction programme is arranged for new directors, tailored to their specific requirements, the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives across the business and to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Group and its activities.
The Group has a commitment to training and all directors, executive or non-executive, are encouraged to attend suitable training courses at the Groups expense.
During 2009, the board received training from external lawyers on UK and US Corporate Governance matters.
The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are published on the Groups website at www.
Audit committee Meetings Name of director Position attended Philip Rowley Chairman Independent non-executive director 4 4 Kathleen ODonovan Independent non-executive director 4 4 Jeremy Scudamore Senior Independent Director 4 4 Young Sohn Independent non-executive director 3 4 Lucio Lanza stepped down from the committee in May 2009 and up to that time he attended all meetings.
Philip Rowley is the financial expert as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US and Kathleen ODonovan is also qualified to fulfil this role.
Both have recent and relevant financial expertise.
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the VP Corporate Operations and the Company Secretary attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by the audit committee for it to operate effectively is available.
Representatives of the Groups external auditors meet with the audit committee at least once a year without any executive directors being present.
The committees responsibilities include: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting: providing oversight of the Groups risk management systems: making recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Groups external auditors: assessing the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services and assessing their nature, extent and cost effectiveness: and considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
 LLP have been the Groups auditors since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in April 1998.
The audit committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to require the firm to tender for the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place since July 2007.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
The committee also keeps under review the value for money of the audit.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors as required by the Auditing Practices Boards International Standard on Auditing ISA UK and Ireland 260 Communication of audit matters with those charged with governance, as well as those required by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Rule 3526, Communication with Audit Committees concerning independence.
In 2009 the activities of the committee included: a review of the internal audit function and the role of the Corporate Operations Group: reviewing the 2009 internal and external audit plans and reports on overseas subsidiaries: considering and approving the assumptions in the annual impairment review: reviewing the status of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and testing: re-approval of the pre-approved non-audit services policy: and external auditors performance and fees.
33 Corporate governance continued Policy on auditors providing non-audit services To avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised, there is an agreed policy in place on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, which sets out arrangements for approving: services that have general pre-approval by the audit committee: services that require specific pre-approval by the audit committee before work commences: and services that cannot be provided by the auditors.
The Groups tax advisory work is carried out by the auditors only in cases where they are best suited to perform the work in a cost effective manner, given their familiarity with the Groups business.
In other cases, the Group has engaged another independent firm of accountants to perform tax advisory work.
The Group does not normally award general consulting work to the auditors.
From time to time, however, the Group will engage the auditors to perform work on matters relating to benchmarking of the internal audit function, human resources, and royalty audits.
A breakdown of fees paid to the auditors can be found in note 5 to the financial statements.
Remuneration committee A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report.
Nomination committee Name of director Position Doug Dunn Chairman Lucio Lanza Independent non-executive director Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director John Scarisbrick Independent non-executive director There were no meetings of the Nomination Committee and no new appointments to the board in 2009.
The committee leads the process for board appointments and makes recommendations to the board in relation to new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and on succession planning, board composition and balance.
The committee considers the roles and capabilities required for each new appointment, based on an evaluation of the skills and experience of the existing directors.
In relation to the planned appointment of new non-executive directors to succeed Lucio Lanza in 2010 and John Scarisbrick in 2011, it is intended that external search consultancies will be used.
Executive committee The executive committee is responsible for developing and implementing the strategy approved by the board.
In particular, the committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that targets are met and for generally managing and developing the business within the overall budget.
Variations from the budget and changes in strategy require approval from the main board of the Group.
The executive committee, which meets monthly, comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, the General Managers of the Processor, Physical IP, System Design and Media Processing Divisions, the EVPs of Human Resources, Corporate Development, Sales and Marketing, the General Counsel and the Company Secretary and meetings are attended by other senior operational personnel, as appropriate.
Biographies of the members of the executive committee appear on the Groups website at www.
Internal control risk management The Group fully complies with the Combined Codes provisions on internal control, having established procedures to implement the Turnbull Guidance 2005.
The board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The board confirms that the necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from this process.
The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness, while implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility of management.
The Group has implemented an internal control system designed to help ensure: the effective and efficient operation of the Group and its divisions by enabling management to respond appropriately to significant risks to achieving the Groups business objectives: the safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or from loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified and managed: the quality of internal and external reporting: compliance with applicable laws and regulations and with internal policies on the conduct of the Groups business: and the ability to recover in a timely manner from the effects of disasters or major accidents which originate outside the Groups direct control.
34 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US has been successfully achieved for each financial year since it became effective for foreign private issuers in 2006.
This is reported on in more detail in the annual report on Form 20-F that is filed with the SEC.
The processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks facing the Group have been successfully integrated into dayto-day business operations through the ARM Management System and are proven to provide a sustainable solution for ongoing compliance.
The board has reviewed the system of internal control, including internal controls over financial reporting, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a number of other committees and bodies which contribute to the overall control environment.
These include: Risk review committee The risk review committee consists of the Chief Technology Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance, ARM Group and the Company Secretary and it receives and reviews quarterly reports from the divisions and corporate functions.
The committee is responsible for identifying and evaluating risks which may impact the Groups strategic and business objectives and for monitoring the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks.
The risk review committee reports formally to the executive committee twice a year where its findings are considered and challenged and reports to the board at least once a year.
Compliance committee The compliance committee consists of the General Counsel, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the EVP Human Resources, the VP Corporate Operations, the Chief Information Officer and the Company Secretary.
It oversees compliance throughout the business with all appropriate international regulations, trading requirements and standards, including direct oversight of financial, employment, environmental and security processes and policies.
The compliance committee has a reporting line to the audit committee.
Disclosure committee The disclosure committee comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance, ARM Group, the General Counsel, the VP of Investor Relations and the Company Secretary.
It is responsible for ensuring that disclosures made by the Group to its shareholders and the investment community are accurate, complete and fairly present the Groups financial condition in all material respects.
Operational meetings In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the Group including the weekly executive team meeting chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and the weekly business review meeting chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, the purpose of which is to monitor and control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters requiring approval.
Each month there are Operations and Customer Satisfaction Meetings where management reviews with representation from the divisions and functions across the Group: revenues, orders booked, costs, product and project delivery dates and levels of defects found in products in development.
The outputs of these meetings are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, raises relevant issues with the board of the Group.
Internal audit function During 2009, the audit committee and management, with advice from  LLP PwC, reviewed the activities of the finance team and the internal Corporate Operations Group COG which is responsible for operating the Groups management system and conducting operational internal audits in line with the plan approved annually by the audit committee.
PwC benchmarked these activities against the internal audit functions in comparable companies and it was advised that the current arrangements would constitute an internal audit function that meets criteria set out in the key practice standards prescribed by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
A number of steps were identified to enhance the internal audit function through rebalancing the emphasis between operational and financial audit.
These are being implemented during 2010 and will involve a more formal and rigorous risk assessment process, a broadening of the scope of the internal audit programme, the appointment of an internal audit manager and an increase in the financial capability within COG.
The Groups management system documents processes and responsibilities across all business functions and operations.
As an autonomous part of this system, the operational audit function carries out a programme of audits to assess its effectiveness and efficiency, resulting in continuous maintenance and improvement of the system, adapting to changes in business operations as necessary.
To demonstrate compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the audit function also maintains the documented controls over financial reporting and confirms the operation of them either by direct testing or through a monitored self-assessment programme.
The management system is audited externally by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance for compliance with ISO9001:2008 and as part of its Business Assurance scheme supports the SarbanesOxley compliance activity.
Any significant control failings identified through the operational audit function or the independent auditors are brought to the attention of the compliance committee and undergo a detailed process of evaluation of both the failing and the steps taken to remedy it.
There is then a process for communication of any significant control failures to the audit committee.
There were no significant control failures during 2009 or up to 28 March 2010, being the latest practicable date before the printing of this report.
35 Corporate governance continued Whistleblowing procedures The Group operates a whistleblowing policy which provides for employees to report concerns about any unethical business practices to senior management in strict confidence or, if they prefer, anonymously through an independent third-party telephone line.
They can do so without fear of recrimination.
The audit committee receives any such confidential reports from the compliance committee.
There were no whistleblowing reports in 2009 and none up to 28 March 2010, being the latest practicable date before the printing of this report.
Environmental, social, corporate governance and ethical policies While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including employees, customers and suppliers and the local communities and environments in which it operates.
The Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for these matters, which are considered at board level.
A corporate responsibility CR report is included in this report and a more detailed version is available via the Groups website www.
The Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is also available on the Groups website and the Group regularly monitors employees awareness of Group policies and procedures, including its ethical policies.
Employees reconfirm their understanding of key policies each year to reinforce awareness.
As a company whose primary business is the licensing of IP, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The Group strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of, or discrimination against, its staff.
The Group endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
The Groups premises are composed entirely of offices since it has no manufacturing activities.
Staff make use of computer-aided design tools to generate IP.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
With the exception of development systems products, the majority of products sold by the Group comprise microprocessor core and physical IP designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
A number of initiatives in this area have continued in 2009.
The Groups environmental policy is published on its website within the CR report.
An environmental action plan is implemented through various initiatives.
These include monitoring energy usage, resource consumption and waste creation so that targets set for improvement are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working with suppliers to improve environmental management.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association enable the Group to send information to shareholders electronically and make documents available through the website rather than in hard copy, which provide both environmental and cost benefits.
Shareholders can opt to continue receiving a printed copy of the annual report if they prefer.
Health and safety Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which are considered low risk from a health and safety perspective, the safety of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces world-wide.
Continual improvement in safety management systems is achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and eliminate potential hazards and through occupational health assessments for employees.
More detail about the Groups approach to environmental matters and health and safety is included in the CR report.
By order of the board Patricia Alsop Company Secretary 36
