61 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance R The Company is committed to high standards of corporate A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place for new governance throughout the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Directors, including presentations from management and site visits.
Companys shareholders for good governance and this statement Non-Executive Directors continue to make site visits on an annual describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code on basis to improve their knowledge of the business and the Groups Corporate Governance as updated in June 2006 are applied by core markets, as well as meeting talented performers and the the Company.
Companys senior personnel, and to enable them to provide valuable insights to the executive management.
During the year, The Board confirms that the Company has complied with all of the the Non-Executive Directors made a total of eleven such visits and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout a programme for the coming year has been planned.
the year, except that Non-Executive Directors did not attend meetings with major shareholders.
This point is explained below.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and Directors seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
At the start of the year, the Board consisted of the Chairman, The Articles also require that every Director must retire and seek six Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
re-election at least every three years.
On 17 June 2008 Cary Nolan and John Roques retired as Non-Executive Directors.
The Board role and meetings The role of the Board is to: The Chairman continued with his other commitments as previously disclosed consisting of the Non-Executive Chairmanships of provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a Symbian Limited until he stepped down on 2 December 2008, framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk GHG Limited General Healthcare Group and Vertex Data Science to be assessed and managed: Limited and his membership of the Advisory Board of the UK set the Companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary Defence Academy and the Court and Council of Imperial College.
financial and human resources are in place for the Company On 1 February 2009 Sir Peter took up a Non-Executive Directorship to meet its objectives, and review management performance: as Chairman-elect of Tate & Lyle plc.
set the Companys values and standards, either by considering Dennis Millard is the Companys Senior Independent Non-Executive and approving policies, procedures and guidance or by Director, having been appointed on John Roquess retirement.
delegation to the Chief Executive in areas of operational All the Non-Executive Directors who have served during the year are performance.
The Board monitors performance against all values considered by the Board to be independent.
and standards to ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met: In response to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 introduced in October 2008, each Director has notified the ensure adequate succession planning is in place for the Groups Company of any situation in which he or she has, or can have a most senior management: and direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with establish and monitor the Groups policies and performance in the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These interests the area of corporate social responsibility.
were considered and approved by the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and each Director was The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises informed of the authorisation and the terms on which it was given.
control over the performance of each operating company within the All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the Company Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring performance Secretary regarding any further possible situational conflict that against those targets.
Certain matters are reserved for approval by may arise so that prior consideration can be given by the Board to the Board and the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups whether or not such conflict will be approved.
In addition, the Board system of internal controls and risk management, as described later has decided that it will review all situational conflicts annually and in this report.
it has done so as part of the process of preparation of this report.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are clearly Biographies of the Board members appear on page 59. defined and separate.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for These indicate the high level and broad range of experience that the the executive management of the Groups business: the Chairman Directors possess.
Their knowledge of the Groups business and of runs the Board.
legal, accounting and market developments is frequently updated by The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as presentations made at Board and Board Committee meetings.
During 2008 two additional Board meetings were held to the Non-Executive Directors have experienced previous periods of consider the renewal of the Companys bank facilities.
The matters economic recession in general or financial management roles and reserved to the Board for decision include major capital expenditure, are therefore well equipped to provide support and guidance in the significant investments or disposals, treasury policy and the current climate.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
In certain The appointment letters for Non-Executive Directors include the time areas, specific responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board commitment expected of them and confirmation that they have within defined terms of reference.
sufficient time available to meet this commitment.
Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain the approval of the Chairman before taking on further appointments and the Chairman requires approval from the Board before adding to his commitments.
62 Corporate Governance continued The Audit and Remuneration Committees have, respectively, five Secretary and considered by the Chairman or, in the case of the and four scheduled meetings each year, although additional Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman meetings may be held where required.
In addition to the scheduled discussed with each Director points arising from his or her meetings of both Committees, there was an additional meeting of evaluation.
the Remuneration Committee to consider the framework of The evaluation of the Chairman was discussed in a meeting of the Executives remuneration in 2010.
The Nominations Committee Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director.
meets as required throughout the year and met twice in 2009.
The Executive Directors attended the meeting to give their views.
During the year all Directors attended the Board meetings that were The Senior Independent Director subsequently discussed the held during their respective periods of service, apart from Dennis outcomes of this evaluation with the Chairman.
Millard, Andrew Dougal, Paul Withers and Laurence Bain, who were The performance of the Board as a whole, and of each of each unable to attend one of the additional, unscheduled meetings its principal Committees was considered by the Board.
All members of the respective committees attended The Chairman led this discussion, based on the results of his one the Committee meetings that were held.
The Board also reviewed the main outcomes Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, of the prior years evaluation process and the actions taken.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available on the The main points from this review were that: Companys web site at www.
The membership of the Committees appears on page 59.
2008 Performance Review outcomes and actions Outcome Action The Non-Executive Directors held a formal meeting and had a number of discussions during the year without the Executive In addition to the performance The success criteria were agreed Directors present to consider, among other things, the performance targets contained in the by the Board in January 2008 of the Company and the Executive Directors.
Companys Performance Share and progress against these will Plan, agree a small number of be reviewed regularly most There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary, in the additional criteria to assess the recently in January 2009. success of the Company over performance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access that a three to five year timeframe.
every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board Review the purpose and The review was carried out and procedures are followed and for advising the Board on all frequency of Non-Executive the outcome reflected in the governance matters.
meetings held during the year.
The Board has adopted a number of corporate governance policies, Continue to improve the quality Non-Executive Directors provided including a Group Code of Ethics covering issues such as conflicts of Board papers.
A first step will feedback on the papers for three of interest, fraud and whistle-blowing.
A copy of the Code is also be for Non-Executive Directors meetings and this resulted in a available on the Companys web site at www.
to provide specific feedback number of improvements to the The Company has implemented arrangements with an independent on each paper produced for Board papers.
organisation to receive information from employees for whistlethree Board and Board blowing purposes.
The Company has also adopted policies on Committee meetings.
share dealing and inside information.
Consider what steps can be As well as maintaining a rolling To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all taken to mitigate the time 12 month agenda for Board pressure on Board meetings.
meetings, preparation for relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress individual meetings now includes an assessment of the likely time reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
In addition, senior managers are regularly invited to Board meetings requirement for each agenda item to aid planning for the meetings.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, maintains Document the process for The process was documented a rolling twelve-month agenda for Board meetings to ensure all evaluation of the performance and agreed by the Board in relevant matters are planned in to the cycle of meetings and of the Chief Executive.
January 2008 and followed in the considered at the appropriate time.
Chief Executives performance review in January 2009.
The Board performance evaluation During the year a performance evaluation was carried out covering 2009 Performance Review main outcomes the Board, each of the principal Board Committees and individual Improve the process for setting performance goals and targets Directors.
The evaluation process consisted of a one to one in incentive schemes.
discussion between the Chairman and each of the other Directors and the Company Secretary.
This discussion was based on a series Provide the Board with more information to benchmark the of questions devised for the purpose and circulated before each Companys performance against its main competitors.
These questions combined those used for the previous Increase the Boards input to, and focus on, progress of the years evaluation with additions designed to increase the breadth Companys strategy.
and depth of the evaluation.
In addition, each Director completed a questionnaire appraising the performance of each other Director.
Identify a method to allow Non-Executive Directors to get to The results of these evaluations were collated by the Company know key executives in greater depth.
The actions taken to address these outcomes will be set out in the Companys Annual Report to February 2010.
63 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Remuneration Committee audit outsourcing and legal services and requires that others The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is set are subject to prior approval by the Committee or its Chairman.
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 77.
This policy allows specific tax compliance services within defined monetary limits to be pre-approved by the Committee at the Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of beginning of the year.
All other permitted non-audit services are the Companys remuneration policy also appear in the considered on a case-by-case basis.
At each of its meetings, the Committee is provided with information Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at full on all non-audit services provided by the auditors and the estimated Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations cost of such services.
The Committee monitors such costs, in the where the recommendations have a direct bearing on his or her own context of the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the value remuneration package.
of non-audit services does not increase to a level where it has the The details of each Executive Directors individual package are fixed potential to affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
by the Remuneration Committee in line with the policy adopted by The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of the full Board.
Nominations Committee Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with The Nominations Committee, comprising the Chairman, Sir Peter the applicable provisions on internal control contained in the Gershon, the Senior Independent Director, Dennis Millard, and Combined Code.
William Korb, meets as necessary.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of The Committees principal function is to provide advice and internal controls and risk management, designed to safeguard recommendations to the Board on any appointments to the Board.
shareholder investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit The Committee also keeps the composition and balance of the Committee monitors the systems effectiveness on behalf of the Board under review.
Board and reviews it at least annually, while responsibility for implementing the system rests with the Executive Directors.
During the year, the Committee was involved in the criteria and The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating appointment of a new Senior Independent Director as a result of and managing significant business risks.
However, any system the retirement of John Roques.
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives and is designed to manage Audit Committee and internal control rather than eliminate the risk of the Company failing to meet its The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the business objectives.
Groups financial and other systems and controls and its financial reporting procedures.
In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives Summarised below are the ways in which risks are identified: the and reviews work carried out by the Internal and External Auditors controls that are in place and the assurance steps that are taken.
The Companys Internal Audit department The processes described have been in place for the year and works to an annual programme developed in consultation with accord with the 2005 Internal Control Guidelines for directors on the Committee, as well as covering specific matters arising during the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the year.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the Risk identification Companys web site.
In addition, and following a recommendation As well as the risks that management identifies through the ongoing from the Smith Report, the Committee has also adopted and processes of reporting and comparing actual performance against implemented a Group-wide policy restricting the appointment of detailed financial and operating plans, analysing significant variances former employees of the external auditors.
and scrutinising key performance indicators, the risk identification Dennis Millard, the Committees Chairman, was formerly the Group processes include: Finance Director of Cookson Group plc and is currently Chairman of An ongoing risks and controls process for identifying, evaluating the Audit Committees of both Debenhams plc and Xchanging plc, and managing major business risks.
During the year business bringing recent and relevant financial expertise to the Committee.
and function leaders have operated the process, which has been The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the coordinated by the Head of Internal Audit.
The results of the internal and external audit functions under review.
This includes an process are reviewed by the Audit Committee: annual review of the effectiveness of the external auditors, including An assurance framework summary, developed to identify the their quality control procedures.
Following the appointment of a new strategic issues on which assurance is required, the external Head of Internal Audit, the Committee reviewed and approved his and internal sources from which that assurance is obtained and proposals for the future structure of the department at its December any ways in which that assurance may need to be enhanced.
The summary is reviewed by the Audit Committee not less The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is also than annually: considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of Internal audit and external audit reports which, as well as non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the commenting on controls to manage identified risks, also identify year to 1 February 2009 and information on the nature of the nonnew risk areas: audit fees incurred appears in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The non-audit fees were paid in respect of assurance A Code of Ethics that encourages employees to report any areas and tax compliance work and are considered by the Committee not of concern regarding compliance with financial and other to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors.
controls, combined with a confidential whistle-blowing helpline, the Trustline.
In addition, the Companys employees are The external auditors appointment is subject to periodic review by encouraged to raise other comments, questions, issues and the Committee and the lead audit partner is rotated at least every concerns that they have directly with the Chief Executive, using five years.
The Committee also maintains a formal policy on the the askharriet email address set up specifically for this purpose.
provision of non-audit services by the auditors, which is reviewed Through this confidential route, Harriet Green receives hundreds each year.
This policy prohibits the provision of services such as of comments and queries each year on a range of issues and financial information systems design and implementation: internal each email receives a response: 64 Corporate Governance continued A Disclosure Committee that meets at least four times a year The Audit Committee receives a full report from the Head of to review all financial statements issued by the Company.
Internal Audit each year on the departments work and findings, The minutes of all meetings of this Committee are received in addition to the updates on specific issues provided at each by the Audit Committee: and meeting of the Committee: A quarterly process which collates all contingent liabilities The effectiveness of the internal audit function is externally identified by business units and function heads and leads assessed every three years: to their presentation to the Disclosure Committee and the A comprehensive external audit plan is agreed with the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee: Controls The effectiveness of the external auditor is reviewed annually and A Code of Ethics that is widely communicated including via the reported to the Audit Committee: and Group intranet and supported by a module on the Groups Certification is required from individual executive managers of online learning centre that clearly defines expected standards relevant sections of all financial statements.
of business behaviour: An executive management committee, the Disclosure Committee, Defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation monitors and reviews processes for disclosures made by the of authorities: Company to its shareholders and reviews such disclosures before Formal authorisation procedures for all investments: they are considered by the Board.
Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities and all for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production Board members receive copies of the minutes of Audit Committee and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management meetings and of the information provided to the Audit Committee on information: risk identification, control and assurance.
The Committee reports to the Board on its proceedings regularly throughout the year.
The control of key financial risks through clear authorisation levels and proper segregation of duties: The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls during the year and A comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes an annual confirms that the necessary action plans to remedy identified budget approved by the Board and review of monthly variances weaknesses in internal control are in place.
against detailed financial and operating plans: The statement of the Directors responsibilities in relation to the A quarter-end controls checklist.
This includes sign off from both accounts appears on page 68. the CEO and CFO of each business covering internal controls, legal and regulatory compliance, Code of Ethics, and tax issues, Going concern as well as financial controls: and In making its determination that the going concern basis is the A process of internal control self-assessment, co-ordinated by appropriate basis of preparation for the financial statements, the Internal Audit.
Board has considered a number of factors.
These have included, but are not limited to: Assurance The Groups operating plan for the next 12 months: The risks and controls process clearly identifies senior management responsibilities for risk mitigation action plans: Market forecast data, where available, for the end markets in which it operates: Internal Audit independently reviews the risks and controls process operated by management: An evaluation of the Groups borrowing requirements over the next 12 months, including monthly peak forecasts: and In compiling the assurance framework summary, senior management review the sources of assurance in relation to A review of contingent liabilities which potentially might crystallise principal business risks and identify to the Audit Committee the over the coming 12 months.
persons with whom responsibility for the provision of assurance The Board has also reviewed the sensitivity of its operating plans to on those risks lies: changes in activity levels as well as macro-economic factors that Internal Audit carries out independent audits.
The annual Internal impact profitability and cash flow, interest rates being one example.
Audit plan, agreed with the Audit Committee at the start of each Finally, the Board has reviewed and considered the nature of the year, provides a high degree of financial and location coverage, actions that it could take to respond to adverse movements in as well as allocating a significant proportion of effort to reviewing the operating environment and which might lead to a situation the risk management frameworks surrounding major where the Board was forced to reconsider its ability to continue business risks: as a going concern.
Internal Audit reports include recommendations to improve Based on this evaluation, the Directors have a reasonable internal controls, together with agreed senior management expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate responsibility and target resolution dates.
The Internal Audit resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable reports, included in the papers for every Audit Committee future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern meeting, summarise these recommendations: basis in preparing the accounts.
Internal Audit follows up implementation of recommendations.
The follow up process for high priority internal audit issues includes monthly status reporting to senior management and updates at each Audit Committee meeting: 65 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Communication with stakeholders The Company places a great deal of importance on The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its stakeholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
Since Harriet Greens appointment as Chief Executive in April 2006, regular and frequent meetings have been held with a significant number of such shareholders.
The Board regards the discussion of the Companys strategy as primarily the role of the Chief Executive and this forms part of the regular meetings held with institutional shareholders.
The Board also receives copies of analysts reports on the Company.
All Company announcements are published on the Companys web site, together with presentation materials.
During the year, external advisors provided the Board with regular reports on the investment communitys views on the Company and its management.
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and governance matters.
While Non-Executive Directors do not ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if this were requested by shareholders.
Dennis Millard, as Senior Independent Director of the Company, is also available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels cannot resolve, or where the normal channels are not appropriate.
All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
All Directors are usually available to take questions at the meeting.
At the AGM, separate resolutions are proposed on each separate issue and proxy forms allow shareholders to vote for or against, or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
The results of proxy voting are made available on the Companys website after the meeting and at the meeting itself to shareholders who attend.
The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
As discussed in the Directors Report, employee communication is given high priority.
As well as formal structures, such as the Companys European Works Council, considerable time is devoted to other forms of employee communication.
These include extensive employee briefings conducted by the Chief Executive and other members of senior management at regular intervals and a Group-wide intranet that is updated daily with information relevant to employees.
The Group also communicates widely with suppliers and customers, both individually and through group events such as seminars on key industry developments and focus groups.
The Group is also active in its local communities, as described in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
