43 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 As at 1 February 2009, the pension schemes had combined Leadership development and succession planning are critical assets of 170 million comprising 99 million equity investment for consistent and ongoing high performance.
Premier Farnell and 71 million bonds cash others.
A 10% reduction in has a well embedded process to meet with business leaders global equity values would therefore have an impact of every six months in order to review what we are doing and reducing Group Net Worth by approximately 10 million.
ensure that appropriate succession plans and bench strength The trustees of the pension schemes or their equivalent in are in place.
Additionally, these reviews are supplemented by the US and Canada are advised on investment decisions regular meetings throughout the year attended by the CEO, by Watson Wyatt or its associated operations outside of the CFO, COO and Global HR Director to review talent throughout UK and, where appropriate, take action to ensure that the the Group and ensure that people plans are appropriately assets of the pension schemes contains an suitable mix aligned to the strengths and weaknesses of our current and of investments.
The liabilities of the pension scheme reected in the In order to further strengthen our leaders we have begun Groups balance sheet are calculated by discounting future a programme of 360 degree feedback, where select cash ows.
A 1% reduction in the long-term discount rate employees from every level in the Group are asked to assumed by the schemes actuaries would have the impact comment on the performance of their leader.
360 degree of reducing Group net worth by 29.2 million.
The relevant feedback allows employees to give real feedback to their discount rate is the expected rate over a 30 year period and managers and gives managers a better sense of their as such is relatively stable.
performance and more importantly how it impacts employees.
We also have a well embedded mentor Recently, both the US and UK governments have engaged in programme that informally matches senior business leaders on-market repurchases of corporate and government backed with talented performers in order to help them navigate securities quantitative easing.
It is not clear as of yet what the organisation and nurture their potential growth.
This the impact of these programmes will be on long-term yields.
programme has been so successful that we now have plans It is possible that this will cause a degree of disruption in the in place to extend it deeper into the organisation as part of short-term and greater volatility than would be expected.
our commitment to personal development of all employees.
Legal risks Attracting talented people and retaining the talent we have in The Group operates internationally and is subject to laws and the Group is of the utmost importance for continued success.
regulations in a large number of countries.
Combined with Our commitment to personal development is unwavering.
this, the large numbers of customers and suppliers to the All employees meet with their managers at least every Group result in a complex set of contractual obligations and six months to review performance and talk about career a risk of non-compliance.
aspirations, which are included in an aspirational development plan.
Employees are then encouraged to take one hour a The Group addresses this risk in a number of ways: week for personal development.
This time is used in a variety Through reviews and training provided by the in-house of ways including attending sales training in order to become legal department: a more effective seller, job shadowing a role related to aspirational development or studying modules in our Online Advice provided by external counsel: Learning Centre.
Capability ladders have also been created Monitoring and reporting of issues by the Internal for certain functions: these ladders are used by employees in Audit function: order to understand what they need and how they can target their own personal development for career progression.
Internal reporting controls processes requiring These ladders have been so popular that they will be local management to report on areas of potential expanded for additional functions.
non-compliance: and eLife, a Group initiative, was created in order to encourage Controls on the level of management required to approve employees to embrace the web and improve innovation.
Through eLife we have introduced an online performance management and objective setting tool that gives employees Resources and Relationships and managers access to their performance reviews and objectives year round.
We have also worked to further Employees embed the idea of innovation in the business this year Premier Farnell is a high service business, driving a high with the development of an innovation exchange.
With 99.6% of all orders delivered the innovation exchange is a cross-functional, global forum in same or next day, consistent high performance and service which participation changes every quarter.
The exchange excellence is essential.
participants evaluate suggestions submitted from around the For two consecutive years Premier Farnell has conducted an business and where relevant begin the process of developing all-employee survey, Your Voice, in order to evaluate employee the innovation.
We have also created innovation teams that engagement and give all employees an opportunity to share unite talented performers into cross-functional, global groups insight into what it is like to work for Premier Farnell and with a focus on projects that sit outside of their daily scope where we can improve.
Based on the feedback received, and stretch their capabilities.
there are four areas where employees told us we could do better Leadership Development, Personal Development, Innovation and Customer Focus.
R 44 Business Review continued R Resources and Relationships One such innovation team is driving improved customer Across Farnell and Newark, the portfolio of suppliers is focus across the business.
This is the final area where managed by an international team.
The largest suppliers employees told us we needed to get better and this team within this portfolio include many global premium brands of talented performers are ensuring that customers are at for whom integrated, go to market strategies are developed.
the heart of everything we do.
Every employee across During the year, the Division continued to build its proposition the business has an objective related to customers and to design engineers, securing new distribution agreements throughout the year, each employee will interact with at least with 40 suppliers to ll technology gaps.
Many of these new one customer, further embedding our customer commitment suppliers develop new, emerging technologies that are in and high service culture.
This initiative will be extended to the very high demand from EDE customers.
Additionally, the Board of Directors who have committed to spending time in Division secured territorial extensions with existing suppliers one of our distribution facilities picking a perfect order for one to support our emerging businesses in Asia Pacic and of our customers during the year.
Elsewhere within the Division, supplier relationships are Market position and reputation managed at a business level, enabling specic customer The Marketing and Distribution Division trades through needs to be met by sourcing, for example, locally branded several major brands including Farnell and Newark.
products, or value-brand products from Asia.
As their product portfolios and customer bases are diverse, the precise market positions of these brands are hard to Distribution network and inventory quantify.
The roots of these major brands are all over 70 years The Marketing and Distribution Division has sales ofces old and have high recognition and prominence within their in 23 countries.
These are supported by a network of particular markets.
They are true multi-channel operations distribution centres that enable the Division to ship products with online and paper-based product information, marketing anywhere in the world within one to three days.
99.6% all programmes and relationship management.
The success orders are dispatched on the day they are placed and of these programmes within their key market segments, received the next day.
as well as their brand reputations, is reviewed through regular market surveys.
The network is comprised of seven primary distribution centres: Customer relationships US Gaffney South Carolina and Springboro Ohio The MDD businesses have a customer base comprised of some 2,000,000 customer contacts.
Contacts are typically UK Leeds and Preston electronic design engineers, production and maintenance Mainland Europe Lige Belgium engineers or procurement specialists.
They represent a diverse spectrum of private and public organisations, Asia Singapore covering 156 industries and areas of commerce.
No single Australia Sydney customer represents more than 2% of Group sales.
These are supplemented by satellite warehouses in other The Group has Customer Relationship Management CRM locations including Mexico, Brazil and China.
Collectively, systems within its key MDD businesses.
These are adding to this network handles an average of 20,000 orders per day a growing understanding of customers needs and enabling and stocks some 400,000 products.
Technology systems the business to offer specic customers the services that are therefore central to delivering high service.
The network they most value.
The Group also has a suite of web diagnostic is managed by a global supply chain team that shares best tools which improves our understanding of customers web practice between locations and drives a programme of technology needs, product preferences and provides a continuous improvement in accuracy, efficiency and service.
unique insight into the ways in which customers work.
At the year end the Group held 194.3 million of inventory The MDD businesses manage relationships with customers in its businesses, of which 171.2 million was in the through multiple channels including websites, catalogues MDD businesses.
and conversations with customers, both by phone and face-to-face.
Inventory is managed on a line-by-line basis, utilising best in class forecasting and stock monitoring IT systems.
Supplier relationships The re-ordering of most products is automated, enabling The MDD businesses work with over 2,500 suppliers, stock purchasing teams to manage order quantity, delivery or approximately 400,000 products, and offer access to more demand exceptions.
Order ll rates are among the highest than 4,000,000 other products.
The Divisions attraction to in the industry, in line with the Groups commitment to service suppliers is directly related to its ability to seed new products excellence.
The Division aims to increase stock turns through to market and drive customer acquisition across its global the use of ever more intelligent systems, seamless supply customer base, using multi-channel solutions-based chain integration with suppliers, and elimination of any technology marketing.
The supplier base is balanced to offer customers around the The Division uses a variety of third-party carriers to ship globe a breadth of products from many different suppliers, orders.
It has a strategic relationship with UPS, its principal while also offering deeper product ranges from some key carrier, responsible for approximately two-thirds of its suppliers with whom the Division has strategic alliances and worldwide deliveries each day.
