60 The Premier Farnell R Leadership Council The Premier Farnell Leadership Council PFLC was The exibility of the PFLC means it also draws on the formed to be a global, representative and exible participation of professional experts from across the Group leadership body, focused on building the organisation at all levels, as well as talented performers as part of their and ensuring the results committed through the ongoing development.
Such a breadth of involvement implementation of the Groups strategy are delivered ensures that decisions are well guided, well formed and for customers, suppliers, shareholders and employees.
always in touch with the needs of the business.
This dynamic Through the innovative thinking and professional leadership body is key to the needs of our transforming expertise, the PFLC breathes life into the strategy, organisation.
drives awless execution and works constantly to put people and customers at the very heart of Recognising high performance Premier Farnell in the quest to become a truly high We are driving towards truly becoming a high performance performance organisation.
Another part of the PFLCs organisation and have developed a set of attributes to guide activities is to evaluate the risks and opportunities to us which are well utilised and understood throughout the both our strategy and the business.
Building a high performance culture is how we PFLC comprises the direct reports of the Chief will deliver our strategy for profitable growth and move the Executive officer and Chief Operating officer the organisation forward to become an even more customerindividual business leaders and functional heads.
As part of our commitment to driving this change and raising standards across the Group, Premier Farnell recognises high performing employees around the business every quarter.
Employees and managers are encouraged to submit details of an individual or team that they feel has gone above and beyond their required duties.
Based on the following six attributes of a high performance company: Being driven by leaders: Built on the relentless pursuit of clear strategies: Energised by an intense performance driven organisation: Being aligned by simple structures and systems: Based on world-class company skills and awless execution: and, Being rejuvenated by well developed people systems.
The PFLC evaluates each entry independently and votes for one individual and one team that has exhibited true high performance attributes.
The person and team with the highest number of votes receive special recognition and an award presented by Harriet Green.
In the event of very tough competition, highly commended awards may be presented locally by the business leaders.
In the year, Premier Farnell recognised over 40 high performers from around the business and further embedded these attributes in the grain of the organisations culture.
