Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The role of our Board and compliance The overall purpose of the Board is to represent the companys owners, ensure that the companys strategic objectives are properly pursued and that the major business risks are actively monitored and managed.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of our shareholders as the Boards primary focus.
The company has established procedures and policies to ensure compliance with the Combined Code the Code.
The company has complied throughout the accounting period with provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, except where reported below.
While this is an important exercise, the Board does not believe that good governance can be defined merely in terms of compliance with a set of rules.
The Board The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details of each, including membership of Board committees are set out in the Board of Directors section.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are laid out in the Remuneration Report.
Premier is an international business which has to manage a variety of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important that the Board contains the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet these challenges.
Premiers Board has such a mix.
Selection of suitable non-executive directors is a matter for Board approval following recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources, including key appointments and standards of conduct.
We require that our non-executive directors are free from any relationship or circumstances that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board has determined that each of the non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman, is independent.
New directors receive a full induction to the company.
This consists of information covering the operations of the Board as well as meetings with the Board, Chief Executive and other executive directors.
All non-executives have direct contact with the companys senior executives between Board meetings and also visit the companys operations in order to familiarise themselves with its activities and to meet and engage with staff.
The company has directors and officers liability insurance in place, and details of the policy are given to new directors on appointment.
Matters Reserved for Board Decision are laid down in writing, including the appointment of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and rules are applied.
A copy of the Matters Reserved for Board Decision can be found on the companys website www.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice where appropriate.
The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, the overall group debt and equity structure and consideration of significant financing matters.
The Board has continued to focus its efforts in 2009 on strategic issues which will create shareholder value, monitoring performance against agreed objectives and planning future business opportunities.
The Board meets at least eight times each year and in addition a regular update conference call takes place in the months when no formal meeting is scheduled.
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Board members receive a monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on progress against objectives and the management of business risks.
Formal procedures are in place to ensure the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest of directors are operated effectively.
The Board determined that during 2009 these procedures were enforced and adhered to appropriately.
The Chairman The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive director.
His key responsibility is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
This is effected through regular contact with the Chief Executive between Board meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
In 2009, the new Chairman visited several of the companys overseas operations to meet local management and senior industry and government representatives.
He also met with a number of institutional investors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present and the non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Mr M W Welton also chairs the board of Southern Water Services Ltd. Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 27 Senior independent director Mr J R W Orange is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the companys senior independent non-executive director.
He is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Whilst Mr J R W Oranges service on the Board exceeds the term of nine years suggested by the Code, the Board considers that as a result of his experience, his long-term perspective of Premiers business and his independence of spirit and objectivity of mind, his contributions are of great value as an independent director.
Re-election of directors In accordance with the companys Articles of Association one third of directors retire each year, with their reappointment being subject to the approval of shareholders.
This requires directors to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director having held office for more than nine years is subject to re-election on an annual basis.
Board committees The Board has established Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board which can be found on the companys website www.
The Company Secretary provides advice and support to the Board and all Board committees.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary.
The number of meetings of the Board and its committees during 2009, and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: Audit Board and Risk Remuneration Nomination 1 2 Number of meetings 17 59 3 Attendance: 3 Sir David John 13 14 3 5 6 7 2 3 4 R A Allan 15 17 2 5 5 J Darby 15 17 4 5 8 9 3 3 6 A R C Durrant 17 17 5 5 2 2 N Hawkings 16 17 4 5 D C Lindsell 16 17 5 5 8 9 7 S C Lockett 17 17 5 5 7 9 2 3 8 A G Lodge 9 10 2 2 J R W Orange 16 17 5 5 9 9 3 3 4, 9 Professor D G Roberts 15 17 8 9 3 3 4 M Romieu 15 17 5 5 10 M W Welton 8 8 Notes: 1.
There were 16 scheduled meetings of the Board during the year.
The remaining meeting only attended by Messrs S C Lockett and A R C Durrant was called to approve the detail of arrangements approved in principle by a prior scheduled meeting of the Board.
There were eight scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The remaining meeting only attended by Mr J R W Orange and Professor D G Roberts was called to approve the detail of arrangements approved in principle by a prior scheduled meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir David John missed one Nomination Committee meeting which was called to discuss the appointment of his successor as Chairman of the company.
He resigned from the Board and its committees on 15 October 2009.
Messrs R A Allan, M Romieu and Professor D G Roberts missed one Board meeting due to the short notice scheduling of the meeting.
Mr J Darby missed one Board meeting and one Audit and Risk Committee meeting due to the rescheduling of the meetings.
Mr A R C Durrant was invited to attend two Remuneration Committee meetings.
Mr S C Lockett missed one Nomination Committee meeting.
Mr A G Lodge was appointed to the Board on 20 April 2009.
Professor D G Roberts missed one Remuneration Committee meeting due to the rescheduling of the meeting.
Mr M W Welton was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2009 and was appointed Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee on 15 October 2009.
Executive Committee The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the group to the Chief Executive who has established an Executive Committee to assist him in this role.
The Committee is made up of each of the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The responsibilities of the Executive Committee include the development of group strategy for approval by the Board, portfolio management and the delivery of performance against the targets set by the Board.
At its meetings it reviews health, safety, environmental and security performance and operational business performance reports.
Three regional business units North Sea and West Africa, Middle East-Pakistan and Asia manage the geographical spread of business in the group.
Each business unit is headed by a regional business unit manager who delivers against specific strategies and performance targets set by the Executive Committee.
Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Internal control The Board is responsible for developing, maintaining and regularly reviewing the groups system of internal controls including those related to financial reporting.
This system is designed to meet the particular needs of the group but by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures in the control system have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Management of business risks This is an ongoing process, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, that identifies, evaluates and manages risks faced by the group.
This is based on each business unit and corporate function producing a risk matrix which identifies the key business risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Risk acceptance and reduction objectives are defined with particular attention given to safety and environmental factors, and applied to ensure that the risks are at a level that is as low as reasonably practicable.
The directors receive assurance directly from the business units and functional management through the completion of annual declarations confirming compliance with the groups policies, procedures and risk management processes.
These processes are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Monitoring A business management system BMS is in force which regulates a wide range of day-to-day activities both in the UK and overseas offices, including environmental controls, health and safety regulations and political risks.
Part of this BMS is a documented review and assurance activity, which deals with the risk review and audit processes.
The purpose of the risk review process is to identify the significant risks to the business, rate them consistently, and ensure we have mitigating measures in place to manage them.
The purpose of the audit process is to ensure that the policies and procedures within the BMS are being adhered to.
The Group Health, Safety, Environment and Security Manager is currently accountable for the overall running of the process with the Group Financial Controller specifically responsible for the financial aspects.
However, the group has now considered it appropriate to appoint a full-time Operational Audit and Risk Control Manager, reporting directly to the Chief Executive, who will assume responsibility for this process.
It is anticipated that this appointment will be made in the first half of 2010.
The effective operation of internal control procedures is reviewed by planned audits.
In addition, audits of joint venture operations are carried out by our joint venture partners as well as audits of our joint venture partners where they operate.
A process of business control reviews has been developed and implemented across the group.
This process is designed, inter alia, to provide assurance to the Board that the company is embedding effective risk management into its operations.
The report of each review is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
A rolling three-year plan to cover all operations is in place.
During 2009, a number of financial control and operational reviews were carried out.
All recommended actions following these reviews are being implemented.
During 2009, the key business risks and internal control weaknesses identified were formally discussed by the Executive Committee and the Board on a periodic basis.
This process will continue during 2010.
The Board receives regular reports on any major problems that have occurred and how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Management structure The Board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs.
The executive directors together with the Company Secretary constitute the Executive Committee which normally meets weekly.
Delegation of authority Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the group as part of corporate accounting and through an authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, delegated authority levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training.
Financial reporting The companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies and processes that pertain to the maintenance of financial records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and the assets or liabilities position at a given balance sheet date.
Directors, through the Audit and Risk Committee, have conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Based on this assessment, the directors have determined that the companys internal control over financial reporting was effective during 2009.
Budgetary process There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board covering capital expenditure, cash flow, the income statement and balance sheet.
Monthly results are reported against budget, and revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
Separate approval processes and limits are in place for unbudgeted expenditure items.
Investment appraisal The group has clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure.
These include authority levels, commitment records and reporting, annual budget and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
The authority of the directors is required for key treasury matters including changes to equity and loan financing, interest rate and foreign currency policy including foreign currency hedging, oil price hedging, cheque signatories and opening of bank accounts.
Comprehensive due diligence work is carried out if a business or an asset is to be acquired.
Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 29 Internal control continued During 2009, the Board reviewed the groups system of internal controls and is satisfied that all the controls in place are appropriate to provide reasonable assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The review is conducted on a regular basis and changes are made to internal control systems to address any new risks or exposures arising as a result of changes to the business or the business environment.
Board performance evaluation An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees, the individual directors and the Chairman, was conducted following the appointment of the new Chairman.
The Board and committee evaluations were facilitated by the Chairman and comprised a written questionnaire and a series of one-toone interviews with all directors.
The questionnaire and interviews covered a number of key areas including strategy, succession planning, Board size and composition, risk management and the relationship between the Board and management.
The results of the reviews were then considered by the Chairman and discussed by the Board as a whole.
The performance of individual non-executive directors was evaluated by the Chairman, with input from the committee chairmen and the other directors.
The performance of the Chief Executive and other executive directors was evaluated by the Chairman and nonexecutive directors.
The directors have concluded that, following this evaluation, the Board and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each director is contributing effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Interim Report, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements.
The company has also produced a summary review document in each of the last seven years highlighting Premiers capabilities and operations.
These documents are available to all shareholders.
com also provides detailed information on the groups activities.
In accordance with current regulations, the company uses its website as its default method of publication for statutory documents to reduce printing costs and help benefit the environment.
The company operates a process of deemed consent: shareholders are given 28 days to indicate whether they wish to continue receiving hard copies of all statutory documents by post, before being deemed as consenting to web-based communications.
Consenting shareholders are sent notification in the post each time the company places a statutory document on its website.
All new shareholders receive hard copies of statutory documents until the next deemed consent process is undertaken.
Shareholders can request all future communications to be sent by post, or request a hard copy of a particular document which has been published on the companys website www.
The company promotes the use of the online shareholder services at www.
On this website, shareholders are able to access their shareholding, update their address or submit queries on their account directly to the companys Registrars.
Shareholders also have the ability to vote online prior to the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The share portal also encourages shareholders to register to receive communications by e-mail, rather than by post, thus further reducing the number of documents printed and distributed.
Shareholders who have registered receive an e-mail notifying them when the company has added a statutory document to its website.
For each new registration processed, the company will donate 1 to PURE the Clean Planet Trust, a UK charity dedicated to combating climate change.
The company has posted on its website, guidelines advising shareholders of how to deal with potential scams, where shareholders may have received unsolicited phone calls concerning investment matters, often where callers have stated they work for a subsidiary of, or on behalf of, the company.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at discount, or offers of free analysis reports, as the company does not retain the services of any such business for these purposes.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, and the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the directors responsible for dealing with shareholders, ensure that other members of the Board receive full reports of these discussions.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and are dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM to discuss the progress of the group.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 24 March 2010
