Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 34 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee meets as and when required and comprises Messrs M W Welton Chairman, J Darby, S C Lockett, J R W Orange and Professor D G Roberts.
Sir David John retired from the Committee on 15 October 2009.
The Board considers the membership of the Nomination Committee to be in compliance with the Combined Code.
The Committee met three times in 2009.
Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of business: there is also a significant level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
The role of the Nomination Committee includes: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
This requires an ongoing assessment of the appropriate skills-mix required at Board level in light of the strategy of the company in the medium-term: responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates, subject to Board approval, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: and the assessment of time required to fulfil the role of Chairman, senior independent director and non-executive director, ensuring that current members of the Board have devoted sufficient time to their duties and that any candidates have sufficient time to undertake the roles.
During 2009, the primary work of the Committee has been the process to select a successor to Sir David John who decided to stand down as Chairman of the Board.
For this purpose, Mr J R W Orange, as senior independent non-executive director, chaired the Committee.
The process concluded with the announcement in September 2009 that Mr M W Welton would take over as Chairman of the Board on 15 October 2009.
The Nomination Committee, together with the Board, addresses the companys succession plans both for members of the Board and senior management.
The appointment of Mr M W Welton to the Board in June 2009 and his subsequent appointment as Chairman in October has helped to maintain the balance of the Board in light of Sir David Johns retirement.
By order of the Board M W Welton Chairman 24 March 2010
