Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 30 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company and formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the companys internal financial and operational control and risk management systems, details of which are given in the Corporate Governance Report: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial statements to ensure clarity and completeness: overseeing the companys relationship with its external auditors, including making recommendations as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and monitoring their independence: and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys whistleblowing procedures.
The Audit and Risk Committee comprises only non-executive directors.
Its members are Messrs D C Lindsell Chairman, J Darby, J R W Orange and M Romieu.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Board considers Mr D C Lindsell and the other members of the Committee to have the relevant commercial, financial and accounting experience to assess effectively the complex financial reporting, risk and internal control issues relevant to the company.
The Committee engages the services of external advisers as they deem necessary in the furtherance of their duties at the companys expense.
No external advisers materially assisted the Committee during the year.
Minutes of Committee meetings are distributed to all Board members, all of whom are invited to attend meetings since the Board believes that the work of the Committee is increasingly important for all Board members.
The Committee is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable and timely information from management in order to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Committee met five times in 2009.
In January it considered accounting and reporting issues relating to the full year results in March.
In March it reviewed the full year results and annual report, and its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control to enable the Board to make its statement on internal control in the Corporate Governance Report.
In July it considered accounting and reporting issues relating to the half year results, and in August it reviewed the half year results.
In 2009 an additional meeting was held in March which considered accounting issues relating to the acquisition of Oilexco.
Group internal control reviews performed during the year and any ensuing recommendations are also considered at the January and July Board meetings.
More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were discharged as follows: the Committee reviewed the risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing the group and how these risks were being managed, and reviewed the findings from financial and operating controls reviews carried out during the year together with progress in implementing any required improvements.
It also reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial Statements: the Committee reviewed the findings from the external auditors audit of the 2008 financial statements and their 2009 interim review, and the audit plan for the 2009 audit.
The fee proposals for the audit and interim review were reviewed and agreed, and the Committee reviewed the scope and fees for non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors to satisfy itself that the assignments concerned did not give rise to threats to the auditors independence and objectivity: the Committee met with the Finance Director and external auditors as part of the interim and final financial statements review and approval process.
The Committee considered assumptions about the future and other sources of estimation uncertainty, as well as the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or judgemental matters that may have a significant effect on amounts in the financial statements: and the performance and effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The Committee was considered to be operating effectively and in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees.
Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 Internal audit The Committee also carried out its annual review into whether it is appropriate for the company to establish an internal audit function.
The Board places great emphasis on the importance of risk management and control at all operating levels in the business and is confident that this culture is in place.
The Committee took account of the fact that the company obtains independent confirmation of its internal controls from a variety of sources: these include joint venture and government audits and the use of specific reviews using third-party specialists.
The Committee also took account of the business controls reviews and risk management process, more fully described in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Committee concluded that while at this time there was no need for a dedicated internal financial audit resource it is now appropriate to appoint an Operational Audit and Risk Control Manager who will have prime responsibility for managing the operational audit and control review process.
It is anticipated that this appointment will be made in the first half of 2010.
External auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte was initially appointed external auditor of the company in 2004.
The Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the issue of the independence of the external auditors.
This review considers the overall relationship between the auditors and the company, based on feedback from the companys finance team and from the auditors, and the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors, and takes account of the safeguards established by the auditors against loss of audit independence, including rotation of the audit partner and other key members of the audit team.
Deloitte are required to confirm to the Committee that they have both the appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members of the company.
The Committee also requires the external auditor to confirm that in providing non-audit services, it complies with Ethical Standards of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2009.
By order of the Board D C Lindsell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 24 March 2010
