Directors statements Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board of Arriva plc seeks to exemplify high standards of corporate governance recognising that it is an important element in achieving the company s goals and optimising shareholder value: and it is for the Board to take leadership in this area.
Sir Richard Broadbent, chairman of Arriva plc Compliance statement The fundamental principles of good corporate governance are detailed in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, the latest edition having been published in June 2008.
Throughout the period under review the company has in all material respects complied with the provisions of the Code.
The purpose of this report is to describe how the company has applied the principles of the Combined Code during the period under review.
The Board At the beginning of the year the Board comprised a non-executive chairman, three executive directors and four independent nonexecutive directors.
Following the retirement of Steve Clayton group managing director - corporate affairs and Veronica Palmer non-executive director in April 2009, and the appointment of Angie Risley as an independent non-executive director in March 2009, the Board now comprises a non-executive chairman, two executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
Sir Richard Broadbent, Simon Batey, Nick Buckles and Steve Williams each chair one of the Boards principal committees described in more detail later in this report and additionally Steve Williams fulfils the role of senior independent director to provide an additional channel of communication for shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the chairman, chief executive or group finance director have failed to resolve or where such contact is not deemed to be appropriate.
In his capacity as senior independent director Steve Williams may attend and participate at any Board committee meeting of which he is not a member.
The Board maintains a rolling programme of topics for discussion and review which is regularly reviewed and updated as necessary.
The Board agendas provide for regular and comprehensive financial and operational reports together with matters relating to social responsibility, safety, employees, the environment and industry-wide areas of interest.
Board and committee meetings are supported by the timely provision to each director of a comprehensive set of papers addressing in detail the agenda matters to be attended to.
The three managing directors, responsible respectively for the UK Bus division, the UK Trains division and the Mainland Europe division attend and contribute to some meetings of the Board at which they give presentations regarding the activities, developments and opportunities within each of their areas of responsibility and provide an opportunity for directors to question them directly about the companys divisional activities.
1.1 Matters reserved for the Board The Board of directors is responsible to the shareholders for approving and keeping under review the companys strategy and for the creation and delivery of shareholder value.
In particular the Board has responsibility for all matters of group significance where strategic, financial or reputational implications are involved.
Specifically the Board is responsible for: Determining strategic priorities and policies Providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate framework of incentives and controls Managing the balance and relationship between short, medium and long-term objectives Overseeing management succession and ensuring adequate management succession and development plans are in place Risk management 97 Corporate governance continued In order to support and deliver its responsibilities the Board has specifically reserved a schedule of matters for its attention.
The schedule is reviewed regularly and currently comprises activities within the following broad themes: Strategy and management Organisational and capital structure Financial reporting and controls Communications Board membership and succession planning for Board and senior management levels: company secretary appointment and removal Remuneration policy Corporate governance Group policies Depending on the nature of the work certain of those responsibilities are delegated to Board committees.
1.2 Principal committees: overview In fulfilling its obligations the Board has in place a committee structure which delegates certain responsibilities to Board committees within the parameters of clearly established terms of reference: a review of the responsibilities, membership and work of those committees is detailed further in this report.
Board Chairman: Sir Richard Broadbent Audit committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Safety committee Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Simon Batey Sir Richard Broadbent Nick Buckles Steve Williams 1.3 Chairman and chief executive There is a clear division of responsibility between the chairman and the chief executive and this is detailed in writing.
The chairman is responsible for the effective operation of the Board, relationships with and between directors, Board succession, corporate governance, regulatory observance, compliance and for ensuring constructive relations with shareholders.
The job of the chief executive is to run the business and to implement decisions taken by the Board.
Against this background the chief executive is required to: Develop group objectives and strategy for approval by the Board Ensure the continued availability of appropriate operational resources Identify business development opportunities Account to the Board for the performance of the group Manage the groups risk profile Ensure proper internal controls and risk management are in place Promote the company to the investment community Ensure effective communication between the Board and the companys principal stakeholders Ensure that appropriate safety processes and arrangements are in place In fulfilling his objectives and responsibilities the chief executive leads an executive committee in which he is supported by the group finance director and the managing directors of the three business divisions UK Bus Mike Cooper : UK Trains Bob Holland and Mainland Europe David Evans.
98 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Directors statements Executive committee David Martin, Chief executive Mike Cooper Bob Holland David Evans Steve Lonsdale, MD, UK Bus MD, UK Trains MD, Mainland Europe Group finance director 1.4 Board and committee meetings: frequency and director attendance records During the year under review the Board met on nine occasions with one of the meetings being reserved for the review and testing of the groups strategy.
The number of committee meetings held during the year were as follows: Audit committee 3 Nomination committee 3 Remuneration committee 6 Safety committee 4 Directors attendance at the Board and Board committee meetings during the year are detailed in the table below: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Safety committee committee committee committee Sir Richard Broadbent 9 9 N A 3 3 6 6 N A David Martin 9 9 N A N A N A N A Steve Clayton retired 22 April 2009 3 3 N A N A N A 1 1 Steve Lonsdale 9 9 N A N A N A N A Simon Batey 9 9 3 3 3 3 6 6 3 3 Nick Buckles 9 9 N A 3 3 6 6 3 3 Veronica Palmer retired 22 April 2009 3 3 1 1 1 1 N A 1 1 Angie Risley appointed 9 March 2009 7 7 2 2 3 3 3 3 N A Steve Williams 9 9 3 3 3 3 N A 4 4 1.5 Company secretary: external professional advice All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary who administers the Board and Board committee meetings and ensures that relevant procedures and regulations are adhered to.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
A well established procedure is in place for any of the directors, in the execution of their duties, to obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
99 Corporate governance continued 1.6 Director re-election One-third of the directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting AGM such that every three years each director will have been subject to the re-election process.
Directors who are newly appointed to the Board are required to submit themselves for election at the first AGM following appointment.
The Board is mindful of the current debate around director re-election and the draft amendments to the Combined Code issued under a consultation process which ends on 5 March 2010.
The Board will review its policy on re-election of directors in the light of the revised Combined Code when issued.
Director election re-election history AGM year: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Sir Richard Broadbent David Martin Steve Lonsdale Simon Batey Nick Buckles Angie Risley Steve Williams The directors standing for re-election at the AGM on 6 May 2010 are David Martin, Nick Buckles and Steve Williams.
1.7 Conflicts of Interest Under the provisions of section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 directors are required to avoid conflicts of interest.
Under the terms of the articles of association and, as permitted by law, the directors are empowered to authorise conflicts of interest and in this regard the Board has in place a process for authorising and managing conflicts or potential conflicts.
Under this process directors are required to disclose all interests which may give rise to a conflict and to regularly review their disclosures and report amendments where necessary.
In January 2010 each director was invited to review their disclosures which had been approved by the Board in March 2009 and to report any relevant amendments.
The amendments made were authorised by the Board in March 2010 each director refraining from participating in any discussions regarding his her personal disclosures.
1.8 Induction All new appointees to the Board have an induction programme made available to them.
The programme will cover a comprehensive briefing on the companys business activities, supported by site visits and meetings with operational management.
Additionally, a full review of the Boards operating procedures, Board committee structure and terms of reference and the general approach to corporate governance and other related corporate issues will be included within the programme.
Directors are encouraged to attend external and or internal ad hoc training courses relevant to their needs and responsibilities.
As an example of this, directors recently attended a training module prepared and presented by external lawyers DWF on developments in health and safety law and practice.
1.9 Evaluation Each year the Board undertakes a wide-ranging evaluation of its own processes and performances.
The exercise, led by Steve Williams, the senior independent director, is based on a comprehensive questionnaire comprising six areas of focus, and also incorporates feedback by all directors through the senior independent director on the chairmans personal performance.
The six areas of focus are: Individual director personal performance The performance of the Board as a whole The Boards procedures and composition The Boards committees Training and induction The performance of the chairman The results of the evaluation are reported back comprehensively to the Board and a plan of action is established to address any areas where it is felt improvements could be made.
This years exercise concluded that the Boards performance was generally satisfactory, or better, but did indicate several areas for improvement, particularly in deepening the interaction of the non-executives with the companys senior management and in training opportunities for non-executive directors.
100 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Directors statements 2.
The Board committees Section 1.2 of this report identified the committee framework which the Board has established in order to assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities.
This section now addresses in more detail the activities and membership of each of those committees.
The Board has established and operates four principal committees to assist it in discharging its responsibilities.
Each committee operates under clear and comprehensive Terms of Reference.
The company secretary, David Turner, acts as secretary to each of the committees.
2.1 Audit committee The key function of the committee is to 2.1 Audit Committee provide assurance to the Board as to the integrity of the company s financial statements and the broad processes that underpin the companys financial and risk control systems.
The committee meets at least three times a year normally February and August to review and approve the annual and half yearly financial statements and internal audit plan, and in November to agree the forthcoming external audit plan.
As explained more fully in 2.1.
2 below, the committee is also responsible for reviewing and making recommendations in respect of the companys internal control and risk management systems.
The committee comprises independent non-executive directors: during the year under review the members of the committee were: Simon Batey, chairman Veronica Palmer retired 22 April 2009 Angie Risley appointed 22 April 2009 Steve Williams Additionally, the chairman of the Board, the chief executive, the group finance director, the head of group internal audit and the external auditors attend the meetings of the committee as invitees.
The members of the committee have extensive management experience with large organisations and the chairman, Simon Batey, is a qualified chartered accountant with previous finance director experience in a number of corporates, most notably with AMEC plc 1992 2000, United Utilities plc 2000 2006 and Thames Water Utilities Limited 2006 2007.
The four principal areas of focus for the audit committee are: 2.1.
1 Financial reporting The integrity of the financial reporting process is by definition of crucial importance to the Board, the company, its shareholders and other stakeholders.
The audit committee has been tasked by the Board to provide assurance on the integrity of all of the companys financial statements which will include any other announcements relating to the companys financial performance and or financial standing.
101 Simon Batey, chairman of the audit committee Corporate governance continued As part of this exercise a key element requires the audit committee to review and challenge where necessary or appropriate: a The consistency of and changes to the companys accounting policies on a year by year basis and across the group.
b The methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions in circumstances where different approaches are possible.
c The application of relevant accounting standards and other Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, taking into account the views of the external auditor.
d The clarity of disclosures of the companys financial reports.
In addition to the company reporting regime, the audit committee will also review the financial statements of the various group pension schemes and the periodic actuarial valuation reports of those schemes.
2 Internal control and risk management systems The committee is further charged with the responsibility for: a Reviewing and providing assurance to the Board on the companys systems of internal control and risk management.
b Reviewing and approving the statement within the Annual Report & Accounts concerning internal control and risk management and the summary of the principal risks and uncertainties that face the group.
In discharging this responsibility the audit committee works closely with and engages the resources of the group internal audit function.
On an annual basis, managing directors of operating companies throughout the group are required to report to the chief executive in writing that all reasonable steps have been taken to assure that compliance with all group policies has been effected and that satisfactory financial and operational controls have been established and operated effectively throughout the whole of the financial year under review.
Any exceptions are to be fully detailed and explained.
3 Internal audit The head of group internal audit reports directly to the chairman of the audit committee and provides, through his team, comprehensive support and assistance to the audit committee.
The group internal audit function operates under the terms of Arrivas group internal audit charter which outlines the purpose, authority, responsibility, scope of work and independence of the function.
This charter is reviewed each year by the audit committee and updated as necessary.
Group internal audit derives its authority from the Board to whose audit committee it has open access.
The head of group internal audit has access to the chairman, chief executive and the chairman of the audit committee whenever it is required and reports to the group finance director on the quality of the financial and operational control environment of the group.
Group internal audit prepares annually for approval by the audit committee an audit plan covering both financial and operational audits.
With regard to the internal audit function, the audit committee is responsible for: a Monitoring and providing assurance to the Board on whether appropriate action is being taken to address relevant internal audit findings as communicated in the head of group internal audits reports to the committee.
b Monitoring, reviewing and providing assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function.
c Assessing the ongoing adequacy of the resources of the internal audit function and making appropriate recommendations to the Board.
d Ensuring the internal audit function has appropriate standing and is free from management or other material restrictions.
e Reviewing, assessing and approving the annual internal audit plan.
f Approving the appointment and removal of the head of group internal audit.
g Meeting with the head of group internal audit at least annually, without management being present.
h Ensuring that the head of group internal audit has direct access to the chairman of the Board and the chairman of the committee.
102 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Directors statements 2.1.
4 External audit The role of the external audit process is fundamental to the companys financial reporting programme and to the assurance to be given to the shareholders that the financial statements reflect in all material respects a true and fair view of the stewardship entrusted to the directors.
In this context the audit committee is charged by the Board with the responsibility for ensuring the continued independence of the external auditor and also that the external auditor has sufficient resources from both a technical and a capacity viewpoint to satisfactorily discharge its obligations.
On an annual basis the audit committee undertakes its own review of the expertise, resources, effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
Additionally the external auditor is required to report annually to the audit committee confirming its continued independence and objectivity.
The committee closely monitors all non-audit work performed by the external auditor.
All propositions that are likely to take the fee for non-audit work beyond a specified threshold require specific prior approval by the audit committee.
For the year to 31 December 2009 the total fees paid to the external auditor amounted to 1.8 million of which 518,000 was in respect of non-audit work.
The committee is satisfied that the level of non-audit work performed by  has not compromised the independence of the external audit function.
2.2 Nomination committee The nomination committee s responsibility is to keep under review the structure and composition of the Board to ensure it continues to maintain the appropriate mix of skills and experience to direct the company in its strategic objectives and to ensure that adequate succession planning is in place at Board and senior management level.
The committee is made up exclusively of non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Richard Broadbent.
The directors who served on the committee during the year under review were: Sir Richard Broadbent, chairman Simon Batey Nick Buckles Steve Williams Veronica Palmer retired 22 April 2009 Angie Risley from 22 April 2009 103 Sir Richard Broadbent, chairman of the nomination committee Corporate governance continued The key responsibilities of the committee are: a Keeping under regular review the structure, size and composition of the Board and determining if the level of resourcing remains appropriate having given due consideration to the challenges and opportunities facing the company and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
b Considering and making recommendations to the Board for all Board appointments, and specifically: i The selection of: Chairman of the Board Chief executive Chairman of principal Board committees ii The appointment of the senior independent director.
iii Membership of the principal Board committees.
c Considering and making recommendations to the Board for the appointment or removal of the company secretary.
d Keeping under regular review succession plans and resourcing for the Board and senior management, monitoring the succession planning process and making recommendations to the Board.
e When vacancies arise, identifying, in consultation with the chief executive, the particular skill set and personal attributes and characteristics that are perceived as necessary to fulfil the role: and agreeing a suitable job description for that role.
f At its own discretion, and having consulted with the chief executive, appointing and agreeing the remuneration to be paid any recruitment consultancy that may be engaged for the purpose of identifying suitable candidates for Board appointment.
g Establishing and implementing a process, using external consultants if necessary, to enable the Board to periodically, objectively and critically evaluate its own performance and that of its committees and members.
2.3 Remuneration committee The remuneration committee s role is to ensure that pay and incentive structures support the delivery of business performance in line with the company s agreed strategy whilst supporting the interests of all other key stakeholders and enabling the organisation to attract and retain a high quality, highly motivated management team.
Only non-executive directors may serve on the committee.
During the year under review the members of the committee were: Nick Buckles, chairman Simon Batey Sir Richard Broadbent Angie Risley from 22 April 2009 A full review of the work and responsibilities of the committee appears in the directors remuneration report on pages 88 to 96.
104 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Nick Buckles, chairman of the remuneration committee Directors statements Directors statements 2.4 Safety committee Safety is a critical risk parameter of the business and the safety committee is responsible to the Board for providing assurance on the compliance with, and application of, the groups safety policy across all the businesses.
The nature of the companys business dictates that safety is of paramount importance and occupies a pivotal position in the companys values and activities.
During the year under review the members of the committee were: Steve Williams chairman from 22 April 2009 Simon Batey from 22 April 2009 Nick Buckles from 22 April 2009 Steve Clayton retired 22 April 2009 Veronica Palmer chairman to her retirement on 22 April 2009 Sir Richard Broadbent, David Martin the nominated director for safety, the director human resources, Alison OConnor, and the group health and safety manager also attend the meetings of the committee.
The committees key responsibilities are: a Monitoring and providing assurance to the Board on the companys safety policy and the arrangements for its implementation and reporting.
b Regularly reviewing and monitoring safety performance.
c Reviewing and approving the self-certification report.
d Receiving reports of material technological, scientific, legislative and regulatory developments relevant to safety that might affect the company.
A copy of the companys safety policy can be viewed on the website at www.
105 Steve Williams, chairman of the safety committee Corporate governance continued 3.
Relations with shareholders The company has an established programme of communication with shareholders and the corporate communications department organises a regular series of presentations to analysts and investors.
It remains the Boards intention that these arrangements should continue as they represent an important feature of the process of facilitating helpful and constructive dialogue between the company and its major investors, subject of course, to continuing to meet all regulatory and statutory requirements.
A procedure exists for the Board as a whole to receive direct feedback from the companys brokers of the investment communitys perception of the companys performance and strategy.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is an opportunity for the Board to communicate with shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
A presentation on the progress and performance of the business is made by the chief executive following the formal business of the meeting, and the chairmen of the audit, nomination, remuneration and safety committees are available to answer questions relating to their particular areas of responsibility.
The meeting is informed of the number of proxy votes submitted in respect of each resolution: this information is also published on the companys website following the meeting.
Group policies The Board has approved and circulated across the groups businesses a set of policies which are designed to strengthen and support the groups corporate governance and internal controls and to address key risks identified through the risk assessment and control process.
As part of the internal control process, businesses are required to certify their continued compliance with these policies.
The policies are kept under review to ensure compliance with best practice and any changes to the regulatory and statutory regimes.
All companies within the group are required to follow group policies, although it is recognised that in the case of newly acquired businesses there may be a period of time before full implementation can be achieved.
Businesses are required to report to the chief executive on an annual basis on any departures from, or non-compliance with, group policies.
Whistleblowing The group operates a whistleblowing policy and procedure whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place.
Areas that are addressed by this procedure cover financial malpractice, criminal activities, dangers to health and safety or the environment, or improper or unethical behaviour.
The procedures allow for employees to raise their concerns with line management or, if this is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
A confidential telephone mailbox and confidential e-mail facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
The complaint will be investigated in a confidential manner and, after a decision is made as to what further steps should be taken, feedback will be given to the person making the complaint.
An official written record will be kept of each stage of the procedure.
The whistleblowing policy and its operation is subject to periodic review by the audit committee: the last review was in February 2010 and the audit committee concluded that no amendments needed to be made to the policy.
The management and operation of the whistleblowing policy is the responsibility of the head of group internal audit.
106 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Directors statements 7.
Internal Control Companies are required to report to shareholders that they have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The review extends beyond financial controls to encompass operational and compliance control and risk management.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control.
Whilst no system can provide absolute guarantees and protection against material loss, the systems are designed to give the directors reasonable assurance that problems can be identified promptly and remedial action taken as appropriate.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness on an ongoing basis of the system of internal control for the accounting period under review.
The key features of the internal control system are: a Organisation structure The structure of the organisation is designed to minimise, as far as possible, the complexity of the reporting arrangements commensurate with the commercial demands made on the group.
The structure focuses on the core businesses of the group and stringent reporting procedures are applied to ensure that performance is closely monitored so that effective and prompt action can be taken, if the need arises.
Certain of the groups functions, including company secretarial, legal, taxation, internal audit, treasury and insurance, are undertaken centrally.
FINANCIAL ORGANISATION REPORTING STRUCTURE AND KPI INTERNAL RISK ASSESSMENT GROUP AND CONTROL INTERNAL AUDIT RISK CONTROL SYSTEM b Financial reporting The group operates a comprehensive financial control system with each operating divisions performance being closely monitored against budget, forecast and prior year performance.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for consideration by the Board as a whole, and are issued in a timely manner to ensure proper consideration can be given to the information.
c Group internal audit The internal control systems are comprehensively supported by the group internal audit department.
Group internal audit is responsible for advising all levels of management, and the Board of directors through the audit committee, on the quality of the financial and operational systems of control for all parts of the group.
This review and appraisal function does not relieve line management of its responsibility for effective control.
Group internal audit functions by conducting independent appraisals leading to reports detailing findings and agreed actions.
Group internal audit undertakes annual financial reviews of the balance sheets of all of the groups material trading subsidiaries and engages in a cycle of operational and risk reviews both on a scheduled and random ad hoc basis.
The head of group internal audit reports directly to the chairman of the audit committee.
Group internal audit is staffed by appropriately qualified and experienced auditors.
107 Corporate governance continued d Risk assessment and risk control An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the group has been in place throughout the year under review and continues to remain in place.
An essential element of good internal control is the continual process of risk assessment and implementation of appropriate controls designed to eliminate or mitigate the effects of the crystallisation of identified major risks.
The approach adopted by the Board involves a process which requires divisional operational staff to critically examine their responsibilities and identify those risks which are of such a nature that their crystallisation would have a material impact on their business.
In order for this process to succeed, it is essential that ownership of risk awareness, risk identification and risk control is fully embraced by line management as an essential ingredient of its normal responsibilities.
In implementing its risk assessment programme the Board has devolved to the audit committee the task of ensuring that appropriate risk assessment and management processes are in place.
The Board is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the key business risks and is supported in this task by the group internal audit function.
In the development of this programme there are a number of fundamental issues identified as being absolutely critical to the success and effectiveness of the risk management and control programme.
In formulating its approach the committee has structured the programme around the key areas of: Clear leadership from the Board The need for risk management to be seen as part of everyday activity and to be embedded in the line management culture Clear communication of the principles involved Active support and involvement of the group internal audit function Regular review of the process and continual assessment of the changing nature of the risks presenting themselves to the business Updating of the group policy manual following the identification of new significant risks The Board recognises that, as in any business, the company must manage a range of risks in the course of its activities, and that failure to adequately manage these risks could adversely impact the business.
As part of the ongoing risk assessment and management programme the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business have been identified and are reported on separately on pages 50 to 53.
Going concern In accordance with the guidance issued in October 2009 by the Financial Reporting Council, Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, a comprehensive going concern review was undertaken by the group.
The review included an analysis of net debt and financing facility headroom at 31 January 2010, together with projections to March 2011, tested by appropriate sensitivity analysis.
Following that review the directors confirm that, after having made appropriate enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
This approach was endorsed by the audit committee at its meeting held on 24 February 2010.
108 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Accounts Accounts Independent auditors report on the group financial statements 110 Financial statements 111 Group income statement Group statement of comprehensive income Group balance sheet Group cash flow statement Group statement of changes in equity Accounting policies 116 Notes to the accounts 121 1.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 4.
Investments accounted for using the equity method 12.
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts 15.
Financial risk management objectives and policies 19.
Called up equity share capital 23.
Notes to the group cash flow statement 26.
Commitments Five-year financial summary 151 Parent company financial statements 152 Parent company accounting policies 153 Notes to the parent company accounts 155 1.
Arriva plc profit and loss account 2.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 11.
Pensions Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements 161 Financial calendar, registered office and advisers 162 109
