Governance Corporate governance statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Attendance at meetings governance, for which the Board is responsible to the Companys The attendance by individual Directors at meetings of the Board shareholders.
The Company has complied throughout the financial and its Committees during the past year was as follows: year ended 22 August 2009 with all of the Code provisions set out Committee meeting in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Director Board meetings Audit Remuneration Nominations corporate governance provisions of the 2008 Company Reporting Directive FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules Sections 7.1 and Number of meetings 11 4 4 3 7.2.
The disclosure required by the Takeover Directive is included in Giles Thorley 11 the Directors Report, on page 33 as permitted by section 7.2.
9 of 1 Roger Whiteside 8 the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The terms of reference for 2 Jonathan Paveley 5 all Board committees and the statement of corporate governance Fritz Ternofsky 9 4 4 are available on the Companys website at www.
5 Peter Cawdron 11 2 3 Mike Foster 9 4 3 What are the responsibilities of the Board of Directors?
4 Ian Fraser 11 4 1 The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims Phil Dutton 11 and ensures that necessary resources are in place in order for the 3 Company to meet its objectives.
All members of the Board take Deborah Kemp 1 collective responsibility for the performance of the Company and all Mark Pain 10 4 5 decisions are taken objectively and in the interest of the Company.
Tony Rice 10 2 4 Ian Wilson 9 2 The Board is responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of Mike Tye 11 financial information and the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and risk management processes and is 1 Roger Whiteside was appointed to the Board on 3 November 2008 and responsible for ensuring that the Companys obligations to its therefore attended all meetings possible.
Jonathan Paveley left the Board on 29 January 2009 and therefore attended all meetings possible.
3 Deborah Kemp left the Board on 21 October 2008.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational 4 During the year, Ian Fraser resigned from the Nominations Committee and management of the Company to the Executive Directors and Ian Wilson was appointed.
Both therefore attended all meetings possible.
other senior management, it has established guidelines requiring 5 During the year, Peter Cawdron resigned from the Remuneration Committee specific matters to be subject to decision by the full Board of and Tony Rice was appointed.
Directors, including material acquisitions and disposals, investments and capital projects.
The Non-executive Directors have a particular What are the responsibilities of the Chairman responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy proposed and Chief Executive?
by the Chief Executive and Executive Directors: to scrutinise and There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman challenge performance: to satisfy themselves on the integrity and Chief Executive which has been formally documented and of financial information and that financial controls are robust approved by the Board.
and defensible: and to ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place in relation The Chairman is responsible for: to the Executive Directors and other senior members of the management team.
leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda: How frequently are Board meetings held?
ensuring, through the Company Secretary, that the members At least ten Board meetings are scheduled during the year and of the Board receive clear, accurate and timely information: additional meetings are convened to consider matters that are arranging the regular evaluation of the performance of the time-critical.
The attendance records of individual Directors can Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and be found in the following table.
The Chairman ensures that, at facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors least annually, the Non-executive Directors meet without the and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Executive Directors present.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors.
meet at least annually without the Chairman being present.
com The Chief Executive is responsible for: What is the role of the Company Secretary?
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its developing strategic operating plans: Committees.
preparing annual budgets and medium term projections for the Company and closely monitoring performance against The Directors, each of whom has received appropriate training, plans and budgets: have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, overseeing the day-to-day management of the Company.
How is the Board structured to ensure that no individual The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that board or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are decision making?
complied with and that there are good information flows within The Board is considered to be of sufficient size such that the the Board, its Committees and between the Non-executive balance of skills and experience is appropriate to the size of the Directors and senior management.
Excluding the Chairman, at least half of the Board comprises Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to The Company Secretary facilitates the induction and professional be independent in character and judgement and to have no development of Board members.
relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement as Directors of the Company.
How is the performance of the Board evaluated?
The Board has reviewed the provisions in the Combined Code During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its and has concluded that, under the definitions used, all six of the own performance and that of its committees and individual current Non-executive Directors are independent.
The Board considered that the best means of effectively undertaking this process was a combination of self and peer The Board has appointed Fritz Ternofsky as its Senior Independent assessment.
This process was led by the Chairman except in Non-executive Director and, on appointment, the Chairman was relation to his own performance as Chairman, which was led by considered by the Board to meet all of the independence criteria the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The results of the set out in the Combined Code.
review were discussed by the Board and an appropriate action plan was agreed.
How are Directors appointed to the Board?
The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure What are the Companys main internal controls?
for the appointment of new directors which is based on merit and The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of internal against objective criteria.
The Nominations Committee leads the control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness process for Board appointments and for succession planning and of those systems in order to safeguard shareholders interests, makes recommendations to the Board.
New directors stand for company assets and ensure robust financial reporting processes election at the AGM following their appointment.
Every Director are in place.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than is required to retire by rotation, and may stand for reelection eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys strategic if nominated by the Nominations Committee, at least every objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only third year.
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires the Directors The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered controls.
This relates to all controls, covering financial, operational, office during normal business hours.
compliance and risk management matters.
Membership of Board committees is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that members are refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on certain individuals.
What information is provided to the Board?
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
35 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Company has ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the and managing the significant risks of the Group in the form of system of internal control during the year, and has considered any a risk management framework Company Risk Register which material developments which have taken place since the year end.
is reviewed and updated by the Board regularly as required.
The The review was carried out through the monitoring process set processes are in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull out above.
In the opinion of the Board, the review did not indicate Committee and have been in place for the whole of the financial that the internal control system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
year and up to the date of this report.
What is the role of the Audit Committee?
The key procedures which the Directors have established with The Audit Committee is made up of Ian Fraser Chairman, Fritz a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Ternofsky and Mark Pain and meets at least four times each year.
Senior management, including the Finance Director, and internal regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters and external auditors are invited to attend for part or all of each reserved for Directors consideration: meeting.
The internal and external auditors have unrestricted an annual review of corporate strategy, which includes a review access to the Audit Committee and its Chairman, and the Head of risks facing the business: of Risk Assurance meets at least annually with the Chairman a risk management framework Company Risk Register which without the presence of management.
All of the members of the identifies the key risks facing the business and how these risks Audit Committee are independent Non-executive Directors and are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis: at least one meets the requirement of the Combined Code for an established organisational structure with clearly defined lines recent relevant financial experience.
of responsibility and delegation of authority: a review procedure for organisational restructuring following The Audit Committee monitors and reviews matters relating to the Company acquisitions: effectiveness of internal controls, the financial reporting process, documented and enforced policies and procedures: the scope and results of internal audit, the statutory audit of the appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their annual consolidated financial statements, the Companys risk allotted responsibilities: management systems, and the independence and objectivity comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, of the auditors.
reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a material variances: recommendation on the appointment or reappointment of the a detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval external auditors.
The Audit Committee has conducted a desktop for major projects.
Post investment appraisals are conducted review during the financial year to consider the independence and are reviewed by the Board: and objectivity of the external auditors as well as an evaluation of an Audit Committee of the Board, comprising independent their performance.
In order to maintain the independence of the Non-executive Directors, which considers significant financial external auditors, the Board has determined a policy detailing control matters as appropriate: what non-audit services can be provided by the Companys external an internal audit function which performs continuous auditors.
Under this policy, work of a consultancy nature is not assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk management offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and internal control: and value-added benefits to the Company.
The Audit Committee regular reporting by the Audit Committee to the Board of monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
Directors regarding internal audit and control updates: documented fraud and whistle blowing policies and procedures During the year and to the date of this report, the work of the and regular review of current whistle blowing regulations: Audit Committee has included consideration of the following reporting by the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors matters: of any changes to accounting policies and of any accounting and legal developments: the financial statements in the 2008 and 2009 Annual Reports a regular review of treasury policies and activities by the and Financial Statements and the interim report issued in April Audit Committee: 2009.
As part of this review, the Committee received reports an established programme of management and staff from the external auditors in relation to the 2008 and 2009 final development and succession planning: and audits and the 2009 interim review: a formal financial reporting process for preparation of the the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: consolidated accounts.
the recommendation of the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors and the approval of the 2009 external audit plan and fee proposal: the evaluation of the performance of the external auditors: the progress of the internal audit programme and matters arising and the effectiveness and workload of the internal audit department and the adequacy of available resource: the maintenance of an effective system of internal financial control: and the Companys whistle blowing procedures including updates of any whistle blowing or fraud incidents which may occur.
com What is the role of the Nominations Committee?
How does the Company communicate with shareholders?
The Nominations Committee is made up of Mike Foster Communications with shareholders are given high priority and the Chairman, Peter Cawdron and Ian Wilson and meetings are held Company aims to provide as much information as is commercially as deemed necessary by the Chairman of the Committee.
The sensible to both existing and potential investors, recognising that majority of the Nominations Committee members are independent transparency is the best way to develop understanding of the Non-executive Directors.
Companys strategy, performance and growth potential.
The Company encourages two-way communication with both its The Nominations Committee considers all matters relating to the institutional and private shareholders and responds quickly to all structure, size and composition of the Board and makes necessary enquiries.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders recommendations to the Board with regard to adjustments and as well as presentations after the Companys preliminary new appointments where deemed necessary.
The Committee announcement of the year end results and after announcement considers the mix of skills and experiences that the Board requires of its interim results.
and seeks the appointment of directors to meet its assessment of what is required to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging The Board uses the Annual General Meetings to communicate with its responsibilities.
private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, What is the role of the Remuneration Committee?
Remuneration and Nominations Committees and the Senior The Remuneration Committee is made up of Fritz Ternofsky Independent Non-executive Director are available at the AGM and Chairman, Tony Rice and Mike Foster and meets at least twice are available to answer relevant questions.
All members of the a year and at such other times as the Chairman of the Committee Board are available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
All of the members of the Remuneration The Chairman also writes to the top 20 major shareholders on an Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Chief annual basis inviting them to correspond with the Non-executive Executive and other Directors may be invited to attend meetings Directors if they so wish.
as considered appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee will consider all material elements of the remuneration policy to ensure that remuneration is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior management of the quality required to manage the Company successfully.
This is performed with reference to independent remuneration research and professional advice, which is provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee will recommend to the Board the framework for the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors.
The Board is then responsible for implementing the recommendations although no Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration nor is any Director allowed to vote on their own terms and conditions.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for preparation of the Report on Directors remuneration which forms part of this Annual Report and can be found on pages 38 to 50.
37 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance
