Corporate Governance Statement Compliance The Board is firmly committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained by the Group.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code 2008 Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice except that the Group did not comply with provisions A.
3.2 states that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise nonexecutive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board recognises that during the year the Group, having three executive directors and two nonexecutive directors, did not have a majority of nonexecutive directors.
At the 2009 AGM the Chairman announced that the Group would look to appoint an additional nonexecutive director.
Michael Parker was appointed after an extensive search and selection process led by the Chairman and Senior Independent Director and started in his new position on 1 January 2010.
At the date of this report the Board consists of three executive directors and three nonexecutive directors which is not compliant with the provisions.
The directors consider the current structure appropriate having regard to the size of the organisational structure of the Group and its current stage of development.
The Chairman is a nonexecutive director and was deemed independent on appointment in 2007.
Section C. 3.1. states that the audit committee should have at least three independent nonexecutive directors.
As there were only two nonexecutive directors and both are members of the audit committee the Group did not comply with this provision during the year.
Michael Parker was appointed to the audit committee at the first Board meeting in 2010.
At the date of this report the audit committee consists of three nonexecutive directors of which two are considered independent.
The Chairman is one of the members and was considered to be independent on appointment but is not considered to be independent thereafter under the Combined Code.
The directors at present consider the current structure appropriate having regard to the size of the organisational structure of the Group and its current stage of development.
Board of directors The Board is primarily responsible for the success of the Group by providing leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually and includes approval of: Group objectives, strategy and policies: business planning: substantial transactions, contracts and commitments: review of performance: risk assessment: dividends: appointments to the Board and as Group Secretary: and senior management appointments and succession plans.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to Board committees are given on pages 22 to 24.
The Board meets at least ten times per annum.
During 2009 the number of Board and committee meetings with individual attendances was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Maarten Henderson 11 3 7 5 Hubert Aulich 11 2 6 5 Iain Dorrity 11 2 6 5 Peter Finnegan 11 3 6 5 John Sleeman 11 3 7 5 Nonexecutive directors.
20 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Board of directors continued In addition to the meetings detailed above the Board met for a dedicated strategy day in June 2009.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information and the directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary.
All directors have access to advice from the Group Secretary and independent professionals at the Groups expense.
Appropriate training is available for new directors and other directors as necessary.
Matthew Wethey replaced Dr Peter Finnegan as both Group and Company Secretary on 4 February 2009 and was responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters, ensuring Board procedures were followed and applicable rules and regulations were complied with.
At the date of this report the Board comprises the nonexecutive Chairman, two other nonexecutive directors and three executive directors.
Brief biographical details of all members of the Board are set out on pages 10 and 11 and further information concerning the appointments is set out in the Directors Report.
John Sleeman is the recognised Senior Independent Director to whom concerns may be conveyed.
The nonexecutive directors bring additional experience and knowledge and are independent of management and any business or other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
This provides a balance whereby an individual or small group cannot dominate the Boards decision making.
The executive directors have entered into contracts with the Company that may be terminated with twelve months notice by either party.
Maarten Henderson and John Sleeman have entered into an arrangement for an initial three year period from the date of listing on the London Stock Exchange 11 June 2007 subject to six months notice in writing from either party.
Michael Parker has entered into arrangement for a three year period subject to six months notice in writing from either party.
The Board has established a separate nomination committee, comprising the nonexecutive directors, which is responsible for making recommendations for appointments to the Board and also senior management appointments.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly established.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and workings of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive Officer, together with the executive directors are responsible for the implementation of strategy and policies and the day to day decision making and administration.
Other significant commitments of the Chairman, Maarten Henderson, are set out in the Directors and Advisors section.
The Board is satisfied that they do not restrict him from carrying out his duties as Chairman effectively.
Performance evaluation The directors believe that an effective Board is vital to the success of the Group and as a result undertake a thorough evaluation each year in order to assess how well the Board, its committees, the directors and the Chairman are performing.
The aim is to improve the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and ultimately the Groups performance.
The process is led by the Chairman and is supported by the Group Secretary and the Senior Independent Director.
The Board believes that a combination of external and internal review is the most appropriate method for evaluating effectiveness.
As a result in the year the effectiveness of the Board and the directors was evaluated internally by the Chairman through a performance management process.
The performance and effectiveness of the remuneration committee and the nomination committee was evaluated externally by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
The performance of individual directors was evaluated by the Chairman.
Following the review process, the Chairman concluded that each director continues to make an effective contribution to the work of the Board, is well prepared and informed concerning items to be considered by the Board, has a good understanding of the Groups businesses and that their commitment to the role remains strong.
The Senior Independent Director together with the Chief Executive Officer evaluated the performance of the Chairman, who concluded that the Chairman operated effectively in his role.
In 2008 the Board engaged Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review to carry out an external independent Effectiveness Review of the Board and the audit committee to assess the quality of the Boards decision making, its overall contribution and value to the longterm health of the Group, and its preparation for future challenges.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 21 Corporate Governance Statement continued Performance evaluation continued This review took place during January and February 2009 and Dr Longs report was presented to the Board as a whole for discussion on 27 February 2009.
The review concluded that the Board and the audit committee were operating in an effective manner.
It identified a number of significant strengths including the directors good understanding of the Group, its marketplace and external environment.
It also identified some areas where improvements could be made to improve longerterm effectiveness.
These focus primarily on continued efforts to improve the quality of information provided to the Board: to understand changing internal and external dynamics: to improve the collective decision making process: and develop the governance process which supports the Board.
During 2009 the Board developed an action plan to improve the areas identified in the review.
The nomination and remuneration committees were reviewed by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review during the autumn of 2009.
The reviews included a confidential overview from all Board members and observation of the October 2009 remuneration committee and nomination committee meetings.
Dr Long presented her report to the respective committee chairmen.
This report was then discussed at the next remuneration committee and nomination committee meetings.
The reviews concluded that each committee was operating in an effective manner.
It identified a number of strengths and some areas where improvements could be made to improve longer term effectiveness.
Relations with shareholders The Board values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Groups strategy and performance, Board membership and quality of management.
The AGM is used to communicate with investors and documents are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The chairmen of the audit committee and remuneration committee are available to answer relevant questions.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantial issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there is a resolution to receive and consider the Annual Report and financial statements.
The Group counts all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer maintain a regular programme of visits and presentations to major institutional shareholders both in the United Kingdom and overseas.
The Chairman and Dr Aulich are also involved in the programme.
The Group aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment in all its reports to the public and to regulators.
Key announcements, financial reports and other information about the Group can be found on the Groups website at www.
Remuneration committee The Directors Remuneration Report and details of the activities of the remuneration committee are on pages 28 to 32.
It sets out the Groups policy and the full details of all elements of the remuneration package of each individual director.
Nomination committee The nomination committee of the Board is chaired by Maarten Henderson.
It is appointed by the Board and is made up of at least three members, a majority of whom should be independent nonexecutive directors.
Michael Parker was appointed to the committee at the first Board meeting of 2010.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other directors and external advisors may be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
The Group Secretary acts as the Secretary of the committee.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee are available to members of the public upon request and are also available on the Groups website at www.
The nomination committee meets not less than twice a year and is required to report formally to the Board on its proceedings.
The main responsibilities of the nomination committee are to: regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future: be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: 22 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Nomination committee continued before appointment is made by the Board, evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and in the light of this evaluation prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both executive and nonexecutive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: keep up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Group and the market in which it operates: review annually the time required from nonexecutive directors.
Performance evaluation should be used to assess whether the nonexecutive directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties: and ensure that on appointment to the Board, nonexecutive directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
The nomination committee is also required to make recommendation to the Board concerning: formulating plans for succession for both executive and nonexecutive directors and in particular for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director: membership of the audit and remuneration committees, in consultation with the chairmen of those committees: the reappointment of any nonexecutive director at the conclusion of their specified term of office having given due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required: the reelection by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association having due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required: any matters relating to the continuation in office of any director at any time including the suspension or termination of service of an executive director as an employee of the Company subject to the provisions of the law and their service contract: and the appointment of any director to executive or other office other than to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The nomination committee met five times during the year.
Details of attendance are shown in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 20.
During the year the main items considered were: the search, selection and appointment of an additional nonexecutive director: organisational changes and senior appointments within the Group: the introduction of a formalised succession planning process for directors and senior managers within the Group: the development of an action plan to improve the areas identified in the nomination committee review: a review and recommendation of changes to the terms of reference of the nomination committee to the Board: and a review of the knowledge, skills and experience of the directors proposed for reelection at the AGM.
The process of searching for an additional nonexecutive director involved the nomination committee considering the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and in light of this preparing a description of the role and the capabilities required for the appointment.
The Chairman led the search with the assistance of the Senior Independent Director and the services of an external advisor.
Following the compilation of a shortlist of possible candidates and an interview process, the nomination committee selected Michael Parker for the role and recommended his appointment to the Board for approval.
The Board approved this nomination and on 20 November 2009 the Company announced that Michael Parker had been appointed as an independent nonexecutive director with effect from 1 January 2010.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 23 Corporate Governance Statement continued Accountability The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects in all interim and other price sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and information required to be presented by statute.
The responsibilities of the directors as regards the financial statements are described on page 33 and that of the auditor on page 34.
A statement on going concern appears on page 15.
Audit committee The audit committee of the Board comprises the nonexecutive directors and is chaired by John Sleeman.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other directors and the external auditor may be invited to attend audit committee meetings as and when appropriate.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available to members of the public upon request and are also available on the Groups website at www.
The audit committee meets not less than three times a year and is required to report formally to the Board on its proceedings.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and findings of the auditors work on audit and nonaudit issues, to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group including the Interim and Annual Reports prior to their publication, to review and challenge where necessary the application of the Groups accounting policies and any changes to the financial reporting requirements.
The audit committee also plays an important part in reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management systems which are described below.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The audit committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action.
As a result the Group publishes the Whistle blowing policy on its website at www.
This policy was reviewed and updated during the year.
The audit committee reviews the terms of engagement with the external auditor and ensures that the external auditor is independent via the segregation of audit related work from other accounting functions and has referenced fees with similar auditors.
The audit committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment of the external auditor.
Internal controls and risk management systems The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal controls and risk management systems and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal controls and risk management systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed and by its very nature provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The internal controls and risk management systems were in place for the period under review up to the date of approving the accounts.
There is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks facing the business.
The entire system of internal controls and risk management systems was reviewed during the year.
24 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Internal controls and risk management systems continued The key procedures, which exist to provide effective internal controls and risk management systems, are as follows: clear limits of authority: a comprehensive system for consolidating financial results from Group companies and reporting these financial results to the Board: annual revenue, cash flow and capital forecasts, reviewed regularly during the year, monthly monitoring of management accounts and capital expenditure reported to the Board, quarterly and half year revenue comparisons with forecasts: financial controls and procedures: clear guidelines for capital expenditure and disposals, including defined levels of authority: monthly meetings of the executive directors to authorise significant transactions: an audit committee, which approves audit plans and published financial information and reviews reports from external auditors arising from the audit and deals with significant control matters raised: regular Board meetings to continuously monitor any areas of concern: annual review of risks and internal controls: and annual review of compliance with the Combined Code.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided that the size of the Group does not justify it at present.
However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management for the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and the period up to date of approval of the financial statements.
By order of the Board MAtthEW WEthEy GRouP SECREtARy 24 March 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 25
