48 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 49 Corporate governance continued Committees of the Board Attendance at meetings The Board has established a number of standing committees to which various matters are delegated according to defined terms The number of scheduled meetings of the Board excluding such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address of reference.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on the Companys website www.
com and will specific matters arising and of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year ended 31 May 2009, also be available at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the principal standing committees of the Board are set out as follows: together with a record of the attendance of the current Directors who are their respective members, is detailed in the table below: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and identifying meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings and recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
The Committee members are Mr held attended held attended held attended held attended A J Green Committee Chairman, Mr G A Kanellis and the four independent non-executive directors, Prof J A Arnold, Mr S J N Mr A J Green 4 4 n a n a n a n a 2 2 Heale, Mr D W Lewis and Mr J T J Steel.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
Mr A G Calder 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a Mr G A Kanellis 4 4 n a n a n a n a 2 2 In considering an appointment, the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Mr C G Davis 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
External search agencies or Mr B H Leigh 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a open advertising will be used where this is appropriate.
Short-listed candidates will then be invited to interview with members of Mr J Pantelireis 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, will be invited to meet other Board members before any decision is taken Mr D W Lewis 4 4 4 4 5 5 2 2 relating to an appointment.
Prof J A Arnold 4 4 4 4 5 5 2 2 Mr S J N Heale 4 4 4 4 5 5 2 2 Remuneration Committee Mr J T J Steel 4 4 4 4 5 5 2 2 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The Committee n a indicates that the Director is not a member of the committee.
members are the four independent Non-executive Directors, Mr J T J Steel Committee Chairman, Prof J A Arnold, Mr S J N Heale and Mr D W Lewis.
No Director participates in meetings when matters relating to him are being discussed.
Once approved, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining specific Group Risk Committee remuneration packages for the Chairman and each Executive Director.
The Chairman and Executive Directors are responsible for The Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and the agreement of Non-executive Directors remuneration.
ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The risk areas which the Committee reviews include general business risk including risk arising out of the external financial environment, product safety Further details of the Committees responsibilities and activities during the year are set out in the Report on Directors risk, physical asset risk including factory, health and safety and environmental risks, IT and infrastructure risks.
The Committee is remuneration on pages 41 to 46. then responsible for developing and supporting the activities necessary to convert an approved framework of risk limits and risk appetite policies into an effective plan for implementation across the Group.
This is achieved by ongoing review to develop and Audit Committee implement plans to eliminate, reduce or transfer risk where practicable.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the Groups accounting and financial policies and its management and control process within the Group and encouraging and supporting two-way communications in respect of risks disclosure practices and internal controls.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointments, issues within the business and with external stakeholders including shareholders, suppliers and customers.
terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditor and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
These responsibilities are discharged at the Audit Committee meetings and through regular reports from the The Group Risk Committee comprises Prof J A Arnold independent Non-executive Director and Committee Chairman, Mr G A internal audit function.
The Audit Committee comprises the four independent Non-executive Directors, Prof J A Arnold Kanellis, Mr C G Davis, Mr B H Leigh and Mr J Pantelireis.
The Committee Committee Chairman, Mr S J N Heale, Mr D W Lewis and Mr J T J Steel and meets regularly with the external auditor.
Prof J A reports formally to the Board after each meeting.
It has authority to obtain external advice as considered appropriate and the Arnold, a qualified chartered accountant, brings recent and relevant financial experience to the Audit Committee.
The Company Board has resolved that it should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake fully its responsibilities.
Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk management process and the performance of the Group Risk Committee.
As indicated above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the External Auditor.
Various factors are taken into account by the Committee in assessing whether to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee recommend the Auditor for reappointment.
These include the quality of the reports provided to the Audit Committee and the During the year, the Board constituted the CSR Committee as a new standing committee of the Board.
The CSR Committee is Board and the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business.
responsible for reviewing and developing the Companys corporate strategy to ensure that CSR is an integral part of the strategy and that the Groups social, environmental and economic activities are aligned.
The CSR Committee is also responsible for the The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the Auditor.
The Auditor is permitted to provide non-audit development of policies on all key areas of CSR including the environment, health and safety, product testing and customer services which are not, and are not perceived to be, in conflict with Auditor independence, providing it has the skill, competence safety, standards of business conduct, ethics, employees and employee development, charitable activities and community and integrity to carry out the work and is considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of initiatives.
Further details of the Committees terms of reference and activities during the year are set out in the Corporate social the Group.
Activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditor must be submitted to the responsibility report.
Committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the External Auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 4 to The CSR Committee comprises Mr S J N Heale independent Non-executive Director and Committee Chairman, Mr G A Kanellis, the financial statements.
Mr C G Davis, Mr B H Leigh and Mr J Pantelireis.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the CSR Committee.
The Committee reports formally to the Board after each meeting.
It has authority to obtain external advice as considered appropriate and the Board has resolved that it should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake fully its responsibilities.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
