DirectorsReport Governance Corporate Governance report This part of the Annual Report, together with the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 56 to 61, describes how QinetiQ has applied the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 the Combined Code.
capacity on 9 September 2008 for the reasons set out above, he has Combined Code continued as a member of the Board throughout the financial year Subject to the exception noted below, QinetiQ has complied with the ended 31 March 2009. provisions of the Combined Code throughout the last financial year.
On 30 May 2008, Doug Webb resigned as Chief Financial Officer On appointment as Chairman in 2005, Sir John Chisholm was not to join The London Stock Exchange Group plc and was replaced by regarded as independent under the Combined Code as he was David Mellors, who joined the Board as an Executive Director on formerly QinetiQs Chief Executive Officer CEO.
The Combined Code 20 August 2008. recommends that a companys chairman should be independent on appointment and that its Chief Executive Officer should not become The Directors are responsible for the management of the business chairman of the same company.
The Board considers that departure of the Group and their powers are subject to the Memorandum and from the Combined Code in this area is appropriate and gave its Articles of Association and any applicable legislation and regulation.
reasons for non-compliance both in the prospectus published as part Rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors of of the Companys Initial Public Offering in 2006 and in subsequent the Company are contained in the Articles of Association and changes Annual Reports.
to these articles must be submitted to shareholders for approval.
The Board governance, processes and systems  Composition of the Board Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers Sir David Sir John Chisholm is the Non-executive Chairman of QinetiQ.
The Lees, Nick Luff, Dr Peter Fellner, Noreen Doyle and Admiral Edmund P. roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, with their Giambastiani to be independent of QinetiQs executive management responsibilities having been clearly articulated by the Board in writing.
and free from any business or other relationships that could materially The Chairman is responsible for the effective operation of the Board interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Of the and ensures that all Directors are enabled and encouraged to play their remaining Non-executive Directors, the Board considers that both Sir full part in Board activities.
The Chief Executive Officer, Graham Love, John Chisholm and Colin Balmer are not independent for Combined is responsible to the Board for directing and promoting the profitable Code purposes, Sir John on the basis that he was formerly QinetiQs operation and development of the Group consistent with enhancing Chief Executive Officer and exercised certain executive responsibilities long-term shareholder value, which includes the day-to-day until 1 October 2006, and Mr Balmer as he was until MOD sold its management of the Group, formulating, communicating and entire ordinary shareholding in the Company on 9 September 2008 executing Group strategy, and the implementation of Board policies.
The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman, six Non-executive Based on the above, the Board considers that over half of its members Directors and two Executive Directors, namely the Chief Executive were independent Non-executive Directors throughout the last Officer and the Chief Financial Officer CFO, with the objective of financial year.
achieving a balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, Board structure having regard in particular to the independence of character and The Board considers that the skills and experience of its individual integrity of all the Directors and the experience and skills which they members, particularly in the areas of UK US defence and security, bring to their duties, which prevents any individual or small group from the commercialisation of innovative technologies, corporate finance dominating the Boards decision-making.
and mergers and acquisitions, have been fundamental in the pursuit The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Sir David Lees.
Sir of QinetiQs growth strategies as described in the Chief Executive David is also Deputy Chairman of the Board and serves as an additional Officers Review section of this Annual Report in the past year.
In point of contact for shareholders should they feel that their concerns addition, the quoted company experience available to members of are not being addressed through the normal channels.
Sir David is, the Board in a variety of industry sectors and international markets furthermore, available to fellow Non-executive Directors, either has also been invaluable to the Group as it seeks to penetrate individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss matters of new markets and geographic territories.
concern in a forum that does not include the Chairman, the Executive Directors or the senior management of QinetiQ.
Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for managing the Groups operations and, in The Shareholder Relationship Agreement entered into between this capacity, determines the Groups strategic and investment policies.
QinetiQ and MOD at IPO entitled the MOD to nominate one NonThe Board also monitors the performance of the Groups senior executive Director to the Board, for so long as the MOD continued to management team which is known as the QinetiQ Executive Team hold at least 10% of QinetiQs issued ordinary share capital.
The MOD and organises its business to have regular interaction with key sold its entire ordinary shareholding in the Company on 9 September members of the Group, including those based in North America.
2008, at which point its right to nominate a Non-executive Director The following is a summary of the approach taken by the Board to came to an end.
Colin Balmer has been the MODs nominated director since IPO, and notwithstanding the fact he ceased to act in such corporate governance in the financial year ended 31 March 2009: 50 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements The Board has agreed a schedule which contemplates eight Board financial year related to the Private Placement transaction, meetings being held in each financial year.
Members of the Board which completed in February 2009, and is described in more are also invited to attend a dinner on the occasion of each Board detail in the Chief Financial Officers Review.
The CFO also reports meeting, which assists in the process of relationship building and on a monthly basis, as part of his investor relations report, on the ensuring that key strategic initiatives are thoroughly discussed.
key issues raised by shareholders, potential investors and other The Board intends to hold two of its scheduled meetings in important stakeholders on QinetiQs performance and key the US in each financial year, to give members of the Board an strategic initiatives.
opportunity to meet with senior management in the QinetiQ On at least two occasions each year, one of the sector heads will North America region.
It is proposed that a further two Board give a presentation to the Board on the key strategic, operational meetings will be held at QinetiQ UK sites each year to provide and performance issues impacting their business.
The Board also members of the Board with greater opportunity to understand receives updates from the CEOs key functional reports on an the operational dynamics of the EMEA business at first hand.
as needed basis, on issues such as Human Resources, Treasury, Corporate Responsibility, Real Estate and Pensions, throughout the The Board receives written reports from the CEO and CFO each financial year.
The Board devotes one entire meeting each year to month, together with a separate report on investor relations consider strategy and planning issues impacting the Group, from which is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers and which the five-year corporate plan is generated.
A key part of this a report produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and process involves the Board having the opportunity to question regulatory issues affecting the Group.
The Board also considers the sector heads and the Executive Directors in relation to the reports from the respective Chairmen of the Committees of the formulation of the corporate plan at sector level and the impact of Board at the next scheduled Board meeting following the date these plans on the Group strategy as a whole.
The Non-executive on which each Committee Meeting was held.
Directors also have an opportunity to meet with other members of The CEOs monthly report addresses the key strategic initiatives staff within the QinetiQ Group including, but not limited to, other impacting the Group since the previous meeting of the Board, members of the senior management team at lunchtime evening and focuses in particular on the progress of each of the QNA, events, which are scheduled to coincide with Board meetings.
Other key areas of focus include During the last financial year, two such events were held at QNA health, safety and environmental matters, employee and facilities in Waltham, Massachusetts and the Kennedy Space organisational issues, corporate responsibility, the status of Center, Florida and the Board also had the opportunity to review key account management customer relationship initiatives, the QinetiQs technology capabilities at its Farnborough site.
pipeline of potential bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments, The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, and post-acquisition performance of recently acquired businesses.
which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the Of particular significance on the transactional front in the last Board and its Committees during the annual business cycle, financial year was the consideration given by the Board to the the level of delegated authorities both financial and nonacquisitions of Dominion Technology Resources, Inc and Spectro financial available to both Executive Directors and other layers Inc in QNA and Commerce Decisions Limited in EMEA, as well as of management within the business, and QinetiQs Business the integration of recently completed US acquisitions into the Ethics, Risk Management and Health, Safety and Environmental newly created Technology Solutions System Engineering Mission processes.
The Board also has a clearly articulated set of matters Solutions structure in QNA and the Australian Consulting business which are specifically reserved to it for consideration, which in EMEA.
The Board also oversaw the conclusion of the 150m include reviewing the annual budgets, raising indebtedness, Maritime Strategic Capabilities Agreement in partnership with granting security over Group assets, approving Group strategy and the MOD in the last financial year, and the programme of work the corporate plan, approval of the annual and interim report and to progress the contractual arrangements for the Defence accounts, approval of significant investment, bid, acquisition and Training Rationalisation programme conducted through Metrix.
divestment transactions, approval of Human Resources policies Significant attention was also focused on setting the strategic including pension arrangements, reviewing material litigation direction for both the EMEA and Ventures businesses, with the and monitoring the overall system of internal controls, including key emphasis in EMEA being on the alignment of investment risk management.
opportunities with high value growth propositions, whereas During the last financial year, the Board approved a new Group cost containment, investment prioritisation and accelerating Ethics policy, and oversaw the introduction of a new UK Code realisation opportunities represented the strategic focus for of Conduct and hotline whistleblower programme to mirror Ventures.
Any proposed acquisitions, disposals and investments the whistleblower programme already in place within QNA.
which exceed the CEOs delegated authority are considered by This activity resulted in a decision to extend the remit of the the Board in the context of the CEOs report.
Compliance Committee to cover Group Ethics and the Proxy The CFOs monthly report addresses the financial performance Regime, as well as the operation of the Compliance Regime and outlook of the Group and each of the sectors, both on a as described in more detail below.
QinetiQ has been a member monthly and year-to-date basis, with the key performance of the UK Defence Industry Anti-corruption Forum since 2006, the primary objective of which is to promote the prevention of indicators analysed by the Board being those identified on corruption in the international defence markets.
In furtherance of pages 38 and 39.
The Group Risk Register also forms part of the this objective, QinetiQ has put in place internal procedures which CFOs report on a quarterly basis and tracks the Principal risks are designed not only to comply with, but to exceed, international and uncertainties identified on pages 40 to 42 of the Business best practice in this area.
This is facilitated by the engagement of Review: the Risk Register which underwent significant review an independent, internationally recognised organisation known and modification in the year includes an analysis of the potential as TRACE Transparent Agents and Contracting Entities which severity of each risk as a function of the likelihood of impact, the conducts anti-bribery due diligence reviews and compliance assumptions underlying each risk, the actions required to manage training on behalf of the Group, particularly in circumstances in the risk and the relevant key performance indicators for each which QinetiQ is planning to engage third-party agents overseas.
The risk owners present an update of mitigating actions and a status update to the Board by rotation.
An important feature of QinetiQs financial management activities in the last QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 DirectorsReport Governance Corporate Governance report Each of the Directors has access to the services of the Company Performance of the Board Secretary, and there is also an agreed procedure for the Directors During the financial year ended 31 March 2009, QinetiQ conducted its to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
third evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees since IPO, which was the first such exercise to be conducted by external  facilitators.
The external facilitators engaged on this programme used Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing the core conclusions arising out of the prior years self assessment the Groups financial statements and the auditors responsibilities exercise as a reference point for creating a detailed Board questionnaire, for reporting on those statements are set out on pages 64 and 65. which was supplemented by additional questions focused on best Other Directorsinformation practice areas of corporate governance.
Each member of the Board together with members of the QinetiQ Executive Team responded Details of Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-executive to the questionnaire, and also participated in a face-to-face interview Directors letters of appointment are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Copies of Directors service contracts with the external facilitators, at which the performance of the Board as and letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the a whole, as well as its Committees, was discussed in detail.
In addition Companys Annual General Meeting.
to the external evaluation exercise, the Chairman held meetings individually with each of the Directors at which the performance of the In October 2006, Sir John Chisholm, was appointed Chairman of the Board, its Committees and individual Board members was discussed: Medical Research Council, a role for which he does not take a fee.
Each Sir David Lees, in his capacity as the Senior Independent Non-executive serving member of the Board will be put forward for re-election at the Director, also met with individual members of the Board to evaluate Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009. the performance of the Chairman.
The evaluation process revealed Other Management Committees that, in virtually all areas, the operation of the Board and its Committees had improved in the last 12 months, with the Board concluding that Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Groups activities, with the exception of QinetiQs North American operations which are its business was conducted in a positive manner, with the Board managed through the Proxy Board, as described in the section below possessing both a strong sense of openness and good levels of headed Management and control of US subsidiaries, is conducted challenge, and having devoted increased attention to strategic planning through the QinetiQ Executive Team QET.
The QET is comprised and the delivery of continuous improvement in the year.
As a result of of the Group CEO, Group CFO, CEO QNA, General Counsel Company the evaluation exercise, the Board agreed to maintain its focus on Secretary, Group Head of Compliance, Chief Technology Officer, succession planning in the coming year, as well as increasing the level Group Head of HR and Communications Director.
The QET meets on of attention given to people and cultural issues at the Board level.
a monthly basis, and receives weekly updates on key operational issues As a separate exercise, the Chairman has held various meetings with by way of pre-scheduled conference calls.
The activities of the QET are the Non-executive Directors in the last financial year, without the supplemented by the Proxy Board and Executive Management Team in Executive Directors present, in order to review both the operation of QNA, the EMEA Executive Management Team and the Ventures Board.
Separate committees have also been established to review Group the Board and the performance of the Executive Directors.
In addition, strategy in the areas of Technology, Communications and Corporate the Executive Directors were appraised as part of the annual salary Responsibility, each of which meet on a periodic basis.
review process, which was overseen by the Remuneration Committee.
Directorsinduction, training and information Committees of Directors All newly appointed Directors participate in an induction programme, The Board has established four principal committees, being the which is tailored to meet their specific needs in relation to information Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations on the Group.
This induction programme includes an induction pack, Committee and the Compliance Committee, each of which operates which is refreshed to ensure it contains the most up-to-date information within written terms of reference approved by the Board, details of available on the Group.
which are set out in the Investor Relations section of QinetiQs website www.
Each Chairman of the Board Committee reports All Directors are encouraged to visit QinetiQs principal sites and on the key issues discussed, and decisions taken, at the next meeting to meet a wide cross-section of the employee base.
During the last of the Board following the Committee meeting in question.
financial year, the Board held two of its meetings at QinetiQ facilities Details of each of these Committees are summarised below.
located in Waltham, Massachusetts and the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, which allowed members of the Board to better appreciate Audit Committee the operational dynamics and technical offerings of QNAs Technology Chairman: Nick Luff Solutions business in particular, the Talon and Last Armor Members: Noreen Doyle, Dr Peter Fellner programmes and the Mission Solutions division.
The Board also Each member of the Audit Committee is an independent Nonheld one of its meetings at QinetiQs Farnborough site, in advance executive Director.
The Committee is chaired by Nick Luff, who has of which a tour was arranged to provide members of the Board been a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England with exposure to a number of QinetiQs technologies in the area and Wales since 1991.
The Board considers him to have recent and of robotics, acoustics and UAVs and corporate responsibility initiatives relevant financial experience given his former roles as CFO of P&O and including QinetiQs STEM outreach programme.
P&O Princess Cruises and his current position as Finance Director of Centrica.
The other members of the Committee are Dr Peter Fellner and Training is also available to the Board on key business issues or Noreen Doyle.
The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least developments in policy, regulation or legislation on an as needed four times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2009, the basis.
In the last year, specific training was provided on the law relating Committee met on six occasions.
The external auditors have the right to the management of conflicts of interest contained in the recently to request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be convened.
During introduced Companies Act 2006 and guidance was provided on the the past financial year, the Committee met with QinetiQs external policies to be adopted by the Board in that regard.
Members of the auditors on two separate occasions without Executive Directors Board addressed this issue by responding to a detailed questionnaire, present to discuss the audit process, and the Committee Chairman designed to identify actual or potential conflict of interest situations: also met with the Group Head of Internal Audit on the same basis.
the outputs of this exercise which principally concerned the potential for conflicts arising from other directorships held by members of the The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Board, both within the QinetiQ Group and externally were subsequently Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit, the Internal Audit Manager, reviewed by the Board, it being noted that in each situation, the and a representative of the external auditors, normally attend Audit potential conflict had either been avoided or declared in advance.
Committee meetings except where not permitted.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements QinetiQ Group plc Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committe Compliance Committee Chairman: Nick Luff Chairman: Dr Peter Fellner Chairman: Sir David Lees Chairman: Sir David Lees Monitors the Groups integrity Sets remuneration and Ensures that the Board and Monitors the Groups in financial reporting and incentives for Executive Committee composition has adherence to the MoD reviews the effectiveness of Directors: approves and the optimum balance of skills, Compliance Regime, as well the risk management monitors remuneration and knowledge and experience.
as Group Ethics and the DoD framework.
During the last financial year, consideration of the audit process for KPMG has been the Companys auditors since 2003.
The members of the Audit Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the the full year and interim results represented the principal areas of performance of KPMG as the Companys auditors in the last financial focus for the Audit Committee, which included detailed reviews of year.
A rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner was undertaken during potential write-downs and impairment provisions, such as goodwill the previous financial year: it is anticipated that he will continue in impairment testing on recently completed acquisitions.
The this role for a maximum term of five years.
Committee also assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, through a balanced scorecard review process designed to Remuneration Committee measure the achievement of Internal Audit objectives, which resulted Chairman: Dr Peter Fellner in the approval of a detailed 12-month work programme for the Members: Noreen Doyle, Sir David Lees function.
In the context of the Groups North American business, the Each member of the Remuneration Committee is an independent Committee undertook an in-depth review of the internal controls Non-executive Director.
The Committee meets as necessary although environment across the QNA sector, which included an assessment normally not less than three times a year.
During the financial year of the operation of the proxy regime, as well as the integration of ended 31 March 2009, the Remuneration Committee met on five newly acquired US businesses, KPI target setting and the QNA Code occasions.
Although not members of the Committee, the Group of Conduct.
As part of its review of internal controls, the Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Head of Human focused in particular on those matters which had failed to achieve at Resources and the Head of Performance and Reward normally attend least a satisfactory audit rating in the year, and the management plans Committee meetings, together with representatives of QinetiQs to address the issues raised by the Internal Audit function.
The controls external consultants, Deloitte & Touche LLP, as necessary.
Executive environment relating to QinetiQs treasury activities was a particular Directors are not present when their own remuneration is being area of focus in the year, with the Groups risk management strategies discussed.
Further information on the activities of the Remuneration in areas such as foreign exchange, cash management and debt Committee during the last financial year are set out in the Report of exposure justifying particular Committee attention.
The Committee the Remuneration Committee on pages 56 to 61. also reviewed the activities of the pensions, tax and insurance functions Nominations Committee in detail, as well as overseeing the level of KPMGs audit fees.
The Committee was also involved in the process of appointing a new Group Chairman: Sir David Lees Head of Internal Audit, which resulted in Peter Morling taking on this Members: Colin Balmer, Sir John Chisholm, Noreen Doyle, Dr Peter position in September 2008.
The Committee confirms its view that it has Fellner, Admiral Edmund Giambastiani, Nick Luff received sufficient reliable and timely information from management In October 2008, the Board resolved that all of the Non-executive in the last financial year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Directors would be appointed to the Nominations Committee.
Prior to this date, the membership of the Committee comprised the In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Committee Chairman, Sir David Lees, together with Dr Peter Fellner Committee ensures that any other advisory consulting services and Sir John Chisholm.
A majority of members of the Committee provided by the auditors do not conflict with their statutory audit throughout the year were independent Non-executive Directors.
The responsibilities and are conducted through entirely separate working Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
During teams: such advisory and or consulting services only generally cover the financial year ended 31 March 2009, the Committee met formally regulatory reporting, tax and mergers and acquisitions work.
Any on three occasions and consulted informally on several other occasions.
non-audit services conducted by the auditors require the consent of the Chief Financial Officer or the Chairman of the Audit Committee The principal focus of the Committees activities during the financial before being initiated, with any such services exceeding 50,000 in year ended 31 March 2009 was to review QinetiQs succession planning value requiring the consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
In the processes at both the Executive and Non-executive Director levels, last financial year, the only non-audit activity conducted by KPMG on and for other key management positions within the Group, which the behalf of QinetiQ which exceeded this 50,000 threshold, related to Committee considered in terms of the need to plan for immediate cover the provision of Taxation advisory services to the Group, which the in respect of key roles, as well as succession planning to cover vacancies Committee concluded did not create any conflict of interest issues arising over a two to five-year timeframe.
The Committee also reviewed which might compromise the independence of KPMG audit work.
It is talent and leadership development initiatives to be introduced across also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be appointed into the business, which included the training programme being developed a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without the prior approval with Henley School of Management which is targeted at high potential of the Chief Financial Officer.
The cost of non-audit work undertaken employees considered to be of senior executive calibre in the future.
by the auditors was reviewed by the Committee on several occasions The Committee also oversaw the recruitment process for a new Chief during the last financial year: this process allows the Committee to Financial Officer following Doug Webbs move to The London Stock take corrective action if it believes that there is a risk of the auditors Exchange Group plc, which culminated in the appointment of David independence being undermined through the award of such work.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 DirectorsReport Governance Corporate Governance report and staff assessing those products for MOD inside the wall.
Compliance Committee Chairman: Sir David Lees The Compliance Committee also provides oversight of other significant Members: Colin Balmer, Sir John Chisholm, Graham Love compliance issues, particularly: the activities that fall within the scope QinetiQs breadth of technical knowledge and its depth of of the Helsinki Protocol covering trials involving human volunteers: understanding of the defence operating environment allows it to serve the Groups Business Ethics policy: and the requirements of the Proxy the interests of the MOD in two distinct ways.
It is able to partner with Regime as described below.
other manufacturers in the defence supply chain to develop and deliver capabilities that give an operational advantage to the armed forces and Going concern also to provide advice to the MOD during the entire procurement cycle.
The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to affect its future development and performance, are set out in the Chief However, these distinct offerings may lead to a conflict of interest, Executives review on pages 8 to 16 and in the Performance Review on which, if unmanaged, could bring into question the MODs ability to pages 17 to 31.
The Chief Financial Officers report on pages 32 to 37 be able to rely on impartial advice during any competitive evaluation of a procurement where QinetiQ wishes to operate on both the buyand the sets out the financial position of the Group along with a description of its cash flows, borrowing facilities and liquidity.
To give MOD customers confidence that QinetiQ is able to the financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes perform these activities, QinetiQ is required by its Articles of Association for managing both its capital and financial risks.
Note 27 also provides to implement a Compliance Regime, which was established on its creation out of DERA.
Central to this Regime is the requirement for details of the Groups hedging activities, details of its financial QinetiQ to seek permission from the MOD prior to providing commercial instruments and its exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
defence services to others where there is potential for a conflict of The Group has several long-term contracts with a number of interest with the services that QinetiQ provides to the MOD.
customers and suppliers spread across different geographies and industries and, as a result, the Directors believe that the Group is well In designing the Compliance Regime, the MOD and QinetiQ sought to achieve a balance between meeting the needs of the procurement positioned to manage its overall business risks successfully despite the customers within the MOD principally Defence Equipment and current economic outlook.
Support and the need to allow QinetiQ flexibility to exploit research After making the appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a into the supply chain and pursue its planned commercial activities, reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to without compromising the defence or security interests of the UK.
The continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Compliance Regime is largely self-policing, in that it is applied by QinetiQ Consequently, the Annual Report and Accounts have been prepared in respect of its activities without extensive intervention or oversight by on a going concern basis.
Since the inception of the Compliance Regime, over 97% of the requests to the MOD to allow QinetiQ to operate on the supply side of Communication with shareholders the commercial defence market have been approved.
Oversight of the The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness of operation of the Regime is provided by the Compliance Committee, its communications with shareholders.
During the last financial year, chaired by Sir David Lees.
Colin Balmer, a Non-executive Director, is the Company has maintained regular dialogue with institutional a member of the Committee, as are the Group Chairman and Chief shareholders and the financial community, which has included Executive Officer.
The Board nominates two senior executives to act as presentations of the full-year and interim results including investor Compliance Implementation Director and Compliance Audit Director.
road shows held in the UK, Europe and US, regular meetings with QinetiQs Compliance Committee meets on four occasions each year major shareholders and industry analysts, participation in stockbrokers to monitor the operation of the Regime.
It receives a report from the seminars and investor site visits.
In addition, each member of the Companys Compliance Implementation Director which describes Board attended the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2008 the permissions which have been sought and granted since the last and a number of Non-executive Directors attended key shareholder meeting of the Committee, and the status of projects where the events in the last financial year, including the full-year and interim potential conflicts of interest are being managed.
The Committee results presentations, at which they were available to take questions also receives, from the Compliance Audit Director, a report on the from shareholders.
All shareholders and potential shareholders can effectiveness of the controls that are in place to ensure that the gain access to the Annual Report, presentations to investors and other Regime is operated correctly.
The Committee is the forum that would significant information about the QinetiQ Group on the Companys address any issues arising out of QinetiQs failure to comply with the website at www.
The Committee reviews the systems Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which that support the Compliance Regime and those that may impact it, the Company highlights key business developments during the year directing changes if appropriate.
A computer-based training package and at which shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The continues to be used to ensure that all relevant employees have a chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Compliance satisfactory knowledge of the operation of the Regime.
For key roles, Committees will be available to answer any questions on the work of competence is demonstrated by passing a mandatory test annually.
The Company confirms that it will send the AGM The MOD reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Compliance Notice and relevant documentation to all shareholders at least 20 Regime, through its right to have an observer at the Compliance working days before the date of the AGM.
For those shareholders who Committee meetings.
have elected to receive communications electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents on the Investor Relations Section of During the year, a total of seven new permissions were sought from the Groups website.
the MOD under the Compliance Regime, where potential conflicts of interest were identified by QinetiQ, with three permission requests All shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the being outstanding from the previous year.
Of these ten requests, eight AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, a poll will be taken on were approved, one was not pursued and one remained outstanding all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes at the end of March 2009.
At the end of the year, 24 firewalls were in on the resolutions will be published on the Companys website.
place, with seven being established and ten being closed down during the year.
Since vesting in 2001, a total of 117 firewalls have operated Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with with 93 now closed.
No breaches of the MOD Compliance Regime have shareholders rests with the Executive Team, led by the Chief Executive Officer, assisted by an investor relations function which reports to the been noted during the year.
A firewall is a series of rules and procedures governing written and oral communication between staff contributing Chief Financial Officer.
The Board is informed on a regular basis of key to products in an MOD competition with industry outside the wall shareholder issues, including share price performance, the composition 54 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Attendance at Board and Committee meetings April 2008 March 2009 Remuneration Audit Compliance Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Colin Balmer 10 10 4 4 Sir John Chisholm 10 10 4 4 3 3 Noreen Doyle 10 10 5 5 6 6 Dr Peter Fellner 10 10 5 5 6 6 2 3 Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani 9 10 Sir David Lees 10 10 5 5 4 4 3 3 Graham Love 10 10 4 4 Nick Luff 10 10 6 6 1 David Mellors 6 6 2 Doug Webb 3 3 1 David Mellors was appointed to the Board on 20 August 2008.
2 Doug Webb resigned from the Board on 30 May 2008. of the shareholder register and City expectations.
The Chairman, This process is informed by a rigorous and structured self-assessment the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors make that addresses all of the guidance cited in the Combined Code.
The themselves available to meet with shareholders as required.
process provides for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
The process is Management and control of US subsidiaries informed by the Internal Audit function, which also provides a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries are currently required by the US control.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for National Industrial Security Program to maintain facility security their timely completion.
Managers report on risks which are recorded clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control or at corporate, sector and divisional level of profit and loss, as well as influence.
To comply with these requirements, QinetiQ North America within all customer-facing projects and how these are managed on a Operations, LLC a wholly-owned subsidiary of QinetiQ in the US and the monthly basis to the QinetiQ Executive Team and the Board, formally, holding company for the substantive part of QinetiQs North American on a quarterly basis.
operations and the US DoD have entered into a proxy agreement that regulates the ownership, management and operation of these The QinetiQ Executive Team reviews on a monthly basis the risk companies.
Pursuant to this proxy arrangement, QinetiQ has appointed management and control process and considers: four US citizens an additional proxy holder having been appointed the authority, resources and coordination of those involved in the in the last financial year holding requisite US security clearances as identification, assessment and management of significant risks proxy holders to exercise the voting rights of QinetiQ North America faced by the organisation: Operations, LLCs shares in the US subsidiaries.
The proxy holders are also appointed as directors of the relevant US subsidiaries and, in addition the response to the significant risks which have been identified by to their powers as directors, have power under the proxy arrangements management and others: the monitoring of reports from Group to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of QinetiQ North America management: and Operations, LLC.
The proxy holders agree to perform their role in the best the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the interests of QinetiQ North America Operations, LLC and consistent with proper management of risk.
the national security concerns of the US.
QinetiQ does not have any representation on the boards of the subsidiaries covered by the proxy The centrally provided internal audit programme is prioritised according agreement and does not have the right to attend board meetings.
to risks identified by the Company and is integrated across all business QinetiQ may not remove the proxy holders except for acts of gross and functional dimensions, thereby reducing issues of overlap or gaps negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach of the proxy agreements in coverage.
These risks are identified dynamically and the Board is with the consent of the US Defense Security Service.
involved in this process as well as the QinetiQ Executive Team.
The Chief Financial Officer provides to the Board monthly information Internal controls that includes key performance and risk indicators.
Where areas for The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal improvement in the system of internal control are identified, the Board control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding the considers the recommendations made by the QinetiQ Executive Team, shareholders interests and the Companys assets.
However, such a the Audit Committee and the Compliance Committee.
The Audit system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and the business and the system of internal control necessary to manage not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
QinetiQ such risks and presents its findings to the Board.
Internal Audit managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of independently reviews the risk identification and control processes significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the implemented by management and reports to the Audit Committee.
design and operation of suitable internal controls to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which are related to achievement of business The Audit Committee also reviews the assurance process, ensuring objectives, are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of with a variety of internal and external events, including control assurance required by the Board.
It presents its findings to the Board on breakdowns, competition, disruption, regulatory requirements and a regular basis.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system natural and other catastrophes.
of internal control that has been in operation during the financial A process of hierarchical self-certification has been established within year ended 31 March 2009.
The Board also routinely challenges the organisation which provides a documented and auditable trail the management to ensure that the systems of internal control are of accountability for the operation of the system of internal control.
constantly improving to maintain their continuing effectiveness.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55
