90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 5 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The company may not pay dividends to shareholders In terms of the directors remuneration policy, Mr Asher in the near future: received a pro rated fee as the senior independent director If the company is unable to attract and retain key totalling US$45 000 and no additional payment for services personnel its business may be harmed: to the audit committee.
Fees paid to Dr Paverd were likewise The companys insurance coverage may prove pro rated until his retirement and totalled US$11 667.
For inadequate to satisfy future claims against the company: service to the audit committee for the year, Dr Voltaire and It may be difficult to affect service of process and Messrs Coleman and Walden were paid US$45 000, enforce legal judgments against the company or its US$23 333 and US$35 000 respectively.
affiliates: and The company is subject to significant corporate The committee makes recommendations to the board in regulation as a public company and failure to comply relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of with all applicable regulations could subject it to liability the external auditors as well as the remuneration and terms or negatively affect its share price.
of engagement of the external auditors.
The committee considers re-tendering on a periodic basis, as they consider Full details relating to these risk factors as well as those appropriate.
BDO LLP served as external auditors for the relating to our industry can be found in our annual report on group for the 2009 financial year and their appointment will Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and Exchange be recommended to shareholders at the May 2010 annual Commission, and in the circular to shareholders, filed with the UK Financial Services Authority on 30 November 2009, general meeting.
There are no contractual restrictions on copies of which are contained on our website.
our ability to appoint alternative auditors.
The board should establish formal and transparent During the year, BDO LLP were paid US$1 228 516 arrangements for considering how they should apply the 2008: US$677 760 for their services, whilst  reporting and internal control principles and for Coopers, the groups previous external auditors were paid maintaining an appropriate relationship with the US$262 115 2008: US$54 183 in respect of their sign off companys auditors.
of the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended The companys audit committee has been set up to review 31 December 2008, the F-3 filed with the SEC in July 2009, the companys financial reports, internal control principles and the UK Class 2 and Class 1 circulars.
During the year and risk management systems, review significant financial BDO provided audit related services in respect of US, Canadian reporting judgements and for dealing with the appointment and UK filings and provided non-audit related working capital of the auditors and monitoring their relationship with the reports for purposes of the UK Class 2 and Class 1 circulars company and its management.
The committee reviews and monitors the external auditors independence and the objectivity and During a substantial portion of the year, the audit committee effectiveness of the audit process.
This is undertaken within was comprised of three members all of whom were nonthe framework of a detailed audit charter.
In May 2009, Dr Voltaire assumed does not believe that the non-audit work provided by BDO chairmanship of the committee following the retirement of Mr Asher and Mr Coleman was appointed to the audit in any way affected their independence.
A copy of the audit committee.
Dr Paverd retired from the committee and board charter is available on the companys website.
For reasons described earlier, the board considers that the members of the audit committee are all The committee reviews the companys published results, the independent.
Dr Dagdelen was appointed to the committee effectiveness if its system of internal control, legal and on 29 January 2010. regulatory compliance including the Sarbanes Oxley Act, and the cost effectiveness of the services provided by the external One of the members has considerable years of experience auditors.
The audit committee has implemented a policy in the financial services sector and the chairman has a PhD regarding the provision, and pre-approval thereof, of nonin finance.
Mr Walden is a qualified chartered accountant audit services by the external auditors and this mandate is and remains in compliance with the professional standards reviewed annually.
required by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The board believes that this level of experience The committee meets regularly and this includes quarterly continues to be sufficient to meet the standards imposed by meetings which are used to consider and approve the the Combined Code.
If issues arose which were deemed companys quarterly results.
The external auditors are outside the areas of expertise of the members, independent regularly invited to attend meetings to report on their activities.
professional advice would be sought.
The committee also meets with the external auditors, During the year the audit committee met six times and independent of the executive directors or management, attendance was as follows: where this is deemed necessary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of meetings Members Appointed Resigned attended BH Asher Chairman 15 July 1997 5 May 2009 2 3 AL Paverd 1 May 2000 5 May 2009 2 3 K Voltaire Chairman since 5 May 2009 1 August 2006 6 6 JK Walden 3 November 2008 6 6 CL Coleman 11 May 2009 2 2 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 94 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 6 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K The Sarbanes Oxley Act required companies to establish annual general meeting, all sub-committee chairmen as well whistle-blower systems.
The geographical spread of the as other non-executive directors are present to address any groups activities, particularly in remote West African locations, queries raised by shareholders.
The first point of contact is the companys legal counsel who upon receipt of such an issue Institutional shareholders should enter into dialogue with being raised would employ independent consultants and companies based upon the mutual understanding of pass the findings onto the senior independent director to objectives.
Quarterly reports are submitted It has been the policy of the company that twice a year to the audit committee concerning any instances where lengthy road shows are conducted by the CEO accompanied complaints are submitted.
by various senior management when meetings are held with most of the companys major institutional shareholders to The audit committee has continued to oversee the groups brief them on the activities of the company.
In addition, after compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the the publication of each set of quarterly results the CEO follows Sarbanes Oxley Act.
up with meetings with many of the institutional shareholders.
These road shows are in addition to the companys attendance There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on at several key international gold mining conferences around the mutual understanding of objectives.
In the last year investor conferences were attended whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory in New York, San Francisco, Miami, Denver, London, Zurich, dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Toronto, Barcelona and Cape Town.
The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining effective communication with all shareholders.
The CEO, corporate Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make communications manager and the companys investor considered use of their votes.
relations consultants prepare a quarterly report for the board The company is pleased to see the increasing trend of detailing the activities and presentations given to shareholders.
institutional shareholders now exercising their rights to vote In addition, since September 2004 the company has employed at general meetings.
In the past three years the percentage international market intelligence experts to provide a global of shareholders present and voting has increased dramatically.
shareholder identification service which has greatly enhanced the focus of the companys communication message.
Since the companys UK listing in 1997, all resolutions considered at its general meeting have been by way of a poll Whilst in general corporate communication with shareholders as the board believes that this more accurately reflects the is conducted by the CEO, the chairman, at least quarterly, views of its shareholders.
participates in an open forum with shareholders and stakeholders.
In addition, the chairman leads a group of senior executives and directors to the African Mining Indaba, one of the premier global mining conferences attended by a substantial number of global players in the mining and related industries.
Besides attendance at various industry conferences, a minimum of two road shows during the year are undertaken to enable company representatives to interact directly with shareholders and interested parties.
Where possible, the CEO asks non-executive directors to join him at presentations made to shareholders and institutional investors.
During their January 2010 visit to Tongon the board had the opportunity to interact with a group of investment analysts and fund managers who were then touring our operations.
The board continues to use the internet for publication of announcements and to file these on the companys website to assist with communication with shareholders.
In addition, the board encourages shareholders to access the annual report from the website rather than having it sent by post in printed form.
Our public relations department monitors and responds to all feedback received through our website.
The structure and accessibility of our website is regularly monitored through a process of internal and external audits.
The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
The board believes that the annual general meeting is an appropriate forum for contact with shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
In order to reflect the sentiment of shareholders at the annual general meeting, it is an unwritten policy that all resolutions should be considered by way of a ballot poll and the number of proxies received disclosed to members in attendance.
Since its listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1997, all resolutions have been passed by way of a poll.
At each RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 95 Composite
