90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 14 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2009 In compliance with the Combined Code, the board acknowledges that there should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
The members of the nomination and governance committee and their respective attendance during the year were as follows: NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of meetings held Members Appointed Resigned and attended P Litard Chairman 27 October 2006 4 4 BH Asher 27 October 2006 5 May 2009 1 2 NP Cole Jr 27 October 2007 4 4 CL Coleman 3 November 2008 4 4 RI Israel 5 May 2009 3 3 In terms of the directors remuneration policy, Mr Litard receives a fee as the group chairman and Mr Asher received a fee as senior independent director and therefore no additional payments for services to the committee were made.
Fees paid to Mr Cole for service to the nomination and governance committee for the year, until his appointment as senior independent director, were US$3 333, while Mr Colemans fee was US$10 000.
During the year the nomination and governance committee analysed the experience and contributions brought by existing board members.
It was agreed that a candidate be sought with the necessary independent geological and technical experience.
Accordingly, the committee put together a list of potential candidates who met the identified job specifications.
The board did not make use of either a search agency nor did it advertise for the position.
After these deliberations and a series of interviews, the committee forwarded to the board the candidacy of Dr Kadri Dagdelen, professor from the Colorado School of Mines.
After a formal process, which included meeting with the full board, Dr Dagdelen was elected a non-executive director on 29 January 2010.
In addition, the committee continued to review the company succession planning procedure, and in particular strategy and tactics regarding key management.
This process involves executive and senior management within the group.
In addition to the appointment of directors, the appointment and removal of the company secretary remains a matter for consideration by the board as a whole.
The board agrees that from the date of the next annual general meeting the letters of appointment for newly appointed directors will be available for inspection at our registered office and at the meeting itself.
The committee reviewed the key policies and charters within the group.
As a result, a new board charter has been accepted and this, along with the nomination and governance committee charter and the charters of the other board sub-committees are published on the companys website.
Other key policies considered, amended and or adopted in 2009 were the code of conduct and the anti-corruption policy, a copy of the revised code of conduct is available on the companys website.
In accordance with the articles of association, Dr Dagdelen will be subject to re-election at the May 2010 annual general meeting.
Copies of the letter of appointment will be available at the companys registered office during the period leading to the holding of the AGM and at the venue for the AGM.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 103 Composite
