90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 1 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2009 The board is strongly committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has therefore decided to adhere, where possible to the provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 the Combined Code, in the same manner as if the company was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal code relating to corporate governance.
This report, together with the remuneration committee report, nomination and governance committee report and directors report, has been prepared by reference to the Combined Code.
Except as explained below in relation to Mr Israels independence, the company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2009.
Details relating to the remuneration paid by the group are contained in the report of the remuneration committee which can be found on page 96 of this annual report.
In addition, reference to the groups environmental and social responsibility report can be found on page 84 and to the activities of the nomination and governance committee on page 103.
The board has taken cognisance of the Financial Reporting Councils final report on the 2009 review of the Combined Code in preparing this report, and that of the remuneration committee and nomination and governance committee.
In particular, the board acknowledges that to continue to be successful in the long term the company must be led by an effective board, with appropriate skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the activities of the company.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of Number of Total formal meetings number meetings at short of board Directors Designation attended notice meetings P Litard Non-executive chairman 4 5 9 9 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 4 5 9 9 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 4 5 9 9 BH Asher Senior independent director 2 1 3 3 NP Cole Jr Senior independent director 4 4 8 9 CL Coleman Independent non-executive 4 5 9 9 RI Israel Non-executive 4 5 9 9 AL Paverd Independent non-executive 1 1 2 3 K Voltaire Independent non-executive 4 5 9 9 JK Walden Independent non-executive 4 5 9 9 Mr Asher and Dr Paverd retired from the board at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 5 May 2009.
Mr Cole assumed the position as senior independent director with effect from 5 May 2009.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 90 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 2 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K As part of this process the board agreed at its January 2010 board meeting to formally adopt a board charter clearly defining its duties.
A copy of this charter is available on the companys website: www.
com Every company should be headed by an effective board, which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the company.
The board remains committed to guiding the strategic and entrepreneurial development of the group and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the success of the company.
Details of what the board has reserved, for its sole discretion, can be found in its charter, referred to above.
During the year the board met four times formally and five times at short notice.
In addition, the January board meeting is used to visit a number of the companys operations.
The January 2010 board visit, as was done in 2009, which took place over five days, enabled members to visit the Tongon development in Cte dIvoire and the Kibali project in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Attendance at the meetings is tabled on the previous page.
At the November 2009 board meeting, the chairman presided over a session of the non-executive directors without the presence of the executive directors.
Appropriate directors and officers insurance cover has been obtained by the company in respect of legal action against the directors.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
In accordance with clearly defined parameters, the non-executive chairman, Mr Philippe Litard, is responsible for the leadership of the board and to ensure effective communication exists between the executive and nonexecutive directors.
The CEO, Dr Mark Bristow, has been delegated the authority to manage the day-to-day administration of the group.
A formal job description is in existence and this is reviewed annually by the board and the CEO.
The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The chairman, in conjunction with the CEO and the company secretary, sets the agenda of each meeting and has ensured throughout the year that time is provided for discussion regarding key strategic issues.
The usual practice of formal meetings and committee meetings taking place over two days allows for active debate and informal discussions and interaction among all members of the board.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
An atmosphere of open debate exists at the companys board meetings allowing for any single director to engage management on key aspects of policy and performance.
Both in the audit committee and at the main board meetings issues relating to financial performance are addressed.
For several years the company has had the position of a senior independent director.
During the past year, Mr Bernard Asher retired and the position was assumed by Mr Norborne Cole Jr.
The non-executive directors under the leadership of the chairman have continued to meet in session without the presence of the executive directors or secretary.
The directors also meet without the presence of the chairman.
In addition, the audit committee has likewise met with the companys external audit partner without the presence of the CFO or CEO.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 91 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 3 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The board and its committees should consist of directors The board should be supplied in a timely manner with with the appropriate balance of skills, experience, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to independence and knowledge of the company to enable enable it to discharge its duties.
it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Under the guidance of the chairman, it is the duty of the Since May 2009, the board has comprised eight members, company secretary to ensure an effective flow of information two executive and six non-executive directors.
The board between the board, its committees and the management of charged the nomination and governance committee with the the company.
The company secretary ensures that the board duty of identifying suitable candidates for consideration based is appraised on all governance matters.
on their technical mining knowledge following the retirement of Dr Paverd.
At its January 2010 meeting the board appointed The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual Dr Kadri Dagdelen as a board member increasing the number evaluation of its own performance and that of its of non-executive directors to seven.
Details of Dr Dagdelens committees and individual directors.
qualifications can be found on page 7 of this annual report.
The boards evaluation procedure operates through a structured self assessment system allowing each director to The board believes that mining is a long-gestation business rate the performance of the board and its committees and and as such justifies a longer period of service for nonfocuses on a number of key areas.
The individual assessments executive directors than many industries and that reasonable are then scored and the results were tabled at a separate periods of service are therefore needed for the stability of the session at the time of the January 2010 board meeting where board but that new appointments are needed from time to the results were discussed in detail.
The board also discussed time to add a fresh perspective.
The board believes that the the evaluation of the individual performance of each director recent changes made to the various board committees will and the contributions that such person made to the board.
ensure that a fresh approach is given to their debates.
The board continues to believe that the exercise is beneficial.
The board monitors compliance with the independence A formal session of the directors also assessed the chairmans criteria included in the Combined Code and considers performance under the leadership of the senior independent substantially all the non-executive directors to be independent director.
for the purposes of the Code.
Consideration in respect of one of the directors is set out below.
All of the directors All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular and their biographies are set out on pages 6 to 7 of this intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the articles of association, directors are required Currently Mr Israel has served as a director for more to submit themselves for re-election.
Any newly appointed than twelve years.
The board has considered his director is subject to election by shareholders after his her objectivity and contribution and believes that these are appointment.
Thereafter, by rotation, the entire board is still independent in character and judgement.
However, subject to re-election every three years.
The articles of Mr Israel is up for re-election at the forthcoming annual association specify neither an age limit for directors nor any general meeting and the board will submit Mr Israel for restriction about the period of service.
Mr Israel has re-election on an annual basis for the duration of his served on the board for more than 12 years and in future will service on the board.
be subject to annual re-election.
Disclosures in respect of all related party transactions are Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, included in note 24 of the financial statements.
retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company should There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
procedure for the appointment of new directors to the A significant proportion of executive directors board.
remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards This is dealt with in the report of the nomination and to corporate and individual performance.
This is dealt with in the report of the remuneration committee.
The directors must be able to allocate sufficient time to There should be a formal and transparent procedure for the company to perform their responsibilities effectively.
developing policy on executive remuneration and for The board believes that all its members have sufficient time fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
Details of any candidates existing No director should be involved in deciding his or her board commitments are disclosed at the time of consideration own remuneration.
No current director, whether This is dealt with in the report of the remuneration committee.
executive or non-executive, is the chairman of another FTSE 100 company.
The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board The Companies Jersey Law, 1991, and the Combined Code and should regularly update and refresh their skills and require, and the board acknowledges, that it is responsible knowledge.
for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment The board continues to operate in a field which is technically of the companys and the groups position and prospects.
complex and directors are provided with information which This extends to the preparation and publication of the annual enables them to fulfil their duties effectively.
Visits to the report and any other release of information, price sensitive mines, branch offices and technical presentations provided or otherwise.
by management are used to further their knowledge in various areas of specialisation.
To facilitate Dr Dagdelens induction, The directors are also required to prepare financial statements in addition to visiting Tongon and Kibali, he also visited Morila for the group in accordance with International Financial and Loulo and spent time with the group exploration Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union team understanding the geology in relation to the Massawa IFRS.
The directors have chosen to prepare financial and Gounkoto discoveries.
statements for the company in accordance with IFRS.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 92 Composite 90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 4 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper The profitability of the groups operations, and the cash accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair flows generated by the groups operations, are affected presentation of the financial statements of the company and by changes in the market price for gold which in the the group.
past has fluctuated widely: The companys mining operations may yield less gold The directors also prepared the other information included under actual production conditions than indicated by in the annual report and are responsible for both its accuracy its gold reserve figures, which are estimates based on and its consistency with the financial statements.
a number of assumptions, including assumptions as to mining and recovery factors, production costs and The directors also have general responsibility for selecting the price of gold: suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently, The profitability of operations and the cash flows and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them generated by these operations are significantly affected to safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect by fluctuations in the price, cost and supply of inputs: fraud and other irregularities.
The going concern basis has Any appreciation of the currencies in which the company been adopted in preparing the financial statements.
The incurs costs against the US dollar could adversely affect directors have no reason to believe that the group and the companys results of operations: company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future The companys results of operations have been based on forecasts and available cash resources.
The viability adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and the of the company and the group is supported by the financial company would be adversely affected by future statements.
increases in fuel prices or disruptions in the supply of fuel: The group has operated a code of ethics, which has recently The companys business may be adversely affected if been updated, since its United Kingdom listing in July 1997. the Government of Mali fails to repay fuel duties owing The code includes specific reference to the companys to Morila and Loulo: financial managers and the chief executive officer.
A copy The companys business may be harmed if the of the revised code is available on the companys website.
Government of Mali fails to repay Value Added Tax, or TVA, owing to Morila and Loulo: The board is responsible for defining the companys risk Certain factors may affect the companys ability to appetite and tolerance.
The board should maintain a support the carrying value of the companys property, sound system of risk management and internal control plant and equipment, and other assets on its balance to safeguard shareholders investment and the companys sheet: assets.
The company has invested in debt instruments for The group maintains a business control framework that which the market has become substantially illiquid: documents the key business risks, together with the related The company may not be able to recover certain funds operational, financial and compliance controls.
The business from the liquidated estate of MDM Ferroman Pty control framework is regularly reviewed and updated by Limited: management, who report quarterly to the board on any issues The company may incur losses or lose opportunities which might affect the risks and controls.
The board for gains as a result of the companys use of derivative acknowledges that it has responsibility for the ongoing review instruments to protect the company against low gold and update of the business control framework and believes prices: that, through the procedures noted above and below, it has The companys underground project at Loulo, complied with the requirements of the Code to review the developing two mines at Yalea and Gara, is subject to effectiveness of the groups internal controls at least annually.
all of the risks associated with underground mining: The company continues to adhere to the requirements of The companys success may depend on its social and section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
environmental performance: Actual cash costs of production, production results The companys auditors, BDO LLP, perform an integrated and economic returns may differ significantly from those audit of the internal controls over financial reporting as part anticipated by the companys feasibility studies and of the group financial audit, and their findings are scoping studies for new development projects, including communicated to the audit committee.
During the year, the Tongon: company appointed a chartered accountant who will be The company conducts mining, development and responsible for the groups compliance with respect to the exploration activities in countries with developing Sarbanes Oxley Act Sox and internal audit.
This has meant economies and are subject to the risks of political and that the method by which the company conducted its internal economic instability associated with these countries: auditing has altered.
The executive management continues The company is subject to varying degrees of political to undertake regular reviews of various parts of the Morila and economic uncertainties associated with operating and the Loulo mines and details of their reports are submitted in the DRC: to the audit committee and board for comment.
Financial Under the companys joint venture agreement with and technical audits of the companys branch offices and AngloGold Ashanti, the company jointly manages Morila major assets are regularly conducted by the Sarbanes Oxley Limited and Kibali Goldmines, and any disputes with and internal audit manager and these reports are AngloGold Ashanti over the management of Morila submitted to the board.
The Sarbanes Oxley and internal Limited or Kibali Goldmines could adversely affect our audit manager met with the audit committee at its January 2010 meeting.
business: The use of mining contractors at certain of the The board notes that no cost effective system will preclude companys operations may expose it to delays or all errors and irregularities and so the groups system of suspensions in mining activities: internal controls provides reasonable, but not absolute The company may be required in the longer term to assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
seek funding from the global credit and capital markets to develop its properties, and the recent weaknesses The board believes that the following risk factors should be in those markets could adversely affect the companys carefully considered as either individually or in a combination ability to obtain financing and capital resources required they could have a material adverse effect on its business: by the business: RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 93 Composite
