The Groups facilities are provided to the 2010 G Casino conversions at with the high cost of moving to fixed by a panel of banks with no single bank Newcastle and Brighton and the Mecca rates have led the Group to operate providing more than 10% of the facility.
Full House conversions at Aberdeen and outside this policy for the time being.
The Group treasury function sets Oldbury are not affected by this policy.
iii Credit risk counterparty limits for the lending Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty Financial risk banks with which it trades and regularly may not be able to settle amounts monitors their credit ratings to minimise The Groups financial risk management owing in full, when due.
Surplus cash risk of financial loss.
strategy focuses on the minimisation of is invested in short-term financial risks for the Group.
The Groups funding, instruments using a limited number of Capital expenditure foreign exchange, liquidity, counterparty financial institutions with strong credit 2009 2008 and interest rate risks are managed by ratings.
Counterparty credit ratings are m m the Groups treasury department in reviewed regularly and credit limits set Mecca Bingo 13.0 10.8 accordance with approved policies and to avoid significant concentration of risk Top Rank Espaa 1.5 2.2 are subject to internal audit review.
All with any one counterparty.
significant financing transactions and Grosvenor Casinos 15.8 9.9 treasury policies are authorised by the Going concern Rank Interactive 3.3 4.7 board of directors.
Implementation of In adopting the going concern basis Central 0.7 0.6 these policies is closely managed by the for preparing the financial statements Total 34.3 28.2 finance director and the group treasury the directors have considered the issues manager.
The treasury function is not Capital expenditure for Mecca Bingo impacting the Group during 2009 as run as a profit centre.
comprised 5.7m on the development detailed in the business review above The key financial risks impacting the of the first Full House Destination clubs and have reviewed the Groups projected Group are liquidity risk, interest rate risk in Beeston, Catford and Oldbury, 1.3m compliance with its banking covenants and credit risk.
In addition, the Group on amusement machines and electronic detailed above.
Based on the Groups hedges its material exposures to foreign gaming, 0.6m on smoking shelters, cash flow forecasts and operating currency translation risk through the use 2.1m on club refurbishment and the budgets, and assuming that trading of foreign currency borrowings.
balance on minor capital works.
does not deteriorate considerably from Grosvenor Casinos spent 4.7m i Liquidity risk current levels, the directors believe that on re-branding Sheffield and Bolton to Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may the Group will generate sufficient cash G Casinos, 4.6m on new G Casinos at not be available to pay obligations when to meet its requirements for at least the Dundee and Aberdeen, 1.7m on the they fall due.
Quarterly cash flow next 12 months and comply with its acquisition and re-branding of Coventry forecasts are prepared that identify the banking covenants.
Accordingly, the to G Casino, 0.3m on the new Electric requirements of the Group and these are adoption of the going concern basis Casino in Leeds and 1.0m on the Play regularly updated to ensure sufficient remains appropriate.
The financial headroom exists for at least balance of the expenditure was on minor 12 months.
This is coupled with a capital works.
regular review of medium-term funding Rank Interactive spent 2.2m on requirements which, in particular, are website development and Top Rank updated alongside the Groups strategic Espaa 0.6m on amusement machines Paddy Gallagher plan process.
The Group negotiated new and electronic gaming.
Financedirector medium-term facilities in 2007, as noted  24February2010 above, which mitigate the liquidity risk  it may face.
 ii Interest rate risk purchasesinMecca, 0.6monthe The Group primarily finances itself  through syndicated bank facilities  and the public debt market.
The bank  facilities are multi-currency although Destinationconcept.
borrowings are typically drawn in Sterling In light of the challenging economic and euros at floating interest rates.
The conditions, the Group continues to maintain strict control over committing $14.3mofpublic bonds outstanding, which mature in expenditure to capital projects.
The Group normally uses interest rate swaps, caps and collars to manage intheorderof40mto45m, expenditure  its exposure to interest rate fluctuations performance and the success of the Mecca and at the end of December 9% of the Full House conversions.
This will allow Groups borrowings were at fixed rates.
quick reductions in the overall level of Group policy is to maintain between 40% capital expenditure should business and 60% of its borrowing at fixed rates.
The commitments The current low interest rates combined THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 37 DIRECTORS REPORT: TAX FACT FILE B Taxfactfile The other change in the 2009 Budget Tax generated 2009 Taxation was the inclusion of card room games within the casino gaming duty regime and the removal of VAT.
This change 146.8m Rankmadeasignificant meant that in some cases the taxation  41.0 of card room games migrated from a 15% Employment Rates taxes rate of VAT to a 50% rate of gaming duty.
 12.9 Lastly, the rates of Amusement andemployment, aswell 24.9 Machine Licence Duty AMLD were increased by approximately 9%.
Rates  VAT of gaming taxation at February 2010 Gambling Spain, BelgiumandAlderney 68.0 taxes are shown in the table on page 39.  Gaming taxes in 2010  Tax generated 2008  taxationin2009, HMTreasuryconsulted  150.2m .
Whileno , the 38.8 Employment  Rates taxes  13.1  market.
 casinosinEngland, Scotland 40.6 process,   VAT wouldneedtobesetat15%inorder 57.7 Gambling Gthan80%ofGrouprevenue toachieveneutrality.
In response to the increasingly The Groups businesses generated volatile nature of the way that the 146.8m 2008: 150.2m for the industry is taxed, Rank has proposed which arose on the liquidation of a Exchequer and local government in a root and branch reform of gaming subsidiary.
Tax refunds were also received VAT, gamingtaxes, incometax, National taxation.
In a submission to HM Treasury, in the UK and US following the successful  and local DCMS and the shadow teams, Rank has resolution of historical issues.
The broader impact of proposed that the current patchwork is expected to have a cash tax rate of Ranks operations, including taxes paid quilt of gambling taxes be replaced with around 5% in 2010, excluding any tax by supplier companies and the economic a single rate of duty.
The submission, payable on the resolution of a number consequences of providing employment which was prepared with the assistance of legacy or exceptional issues.
to more than 7,000 people in the UK, is of Ernst & Young LLP, suggests that a harder to quantify but no less significant.
single rate of duty would generate more VAT and fiscal neutrality In2009, theamountofVATand sustainable income for the Exchequer,  Rank has submitted a number of claims reduce administration costs and provide to HMRC for overpaid VAT.
These claims %lowerthan greater support for the Governments in2008,  have their basis in the European Unions social policies.
principle of fiscal neutrality, which twobusinesses  Ranks submissions to HM Treasury ensures that similar products and services casinos roseby4%.
Wepaid22%ofour are available from www.
 The complex nature of UK gambling Effective tax rate inVATandgamingtaxes 2008:24%.
taxes see page 13, Responsible, fair and  The Groups effective corporation tax sustainable taxation has given rise  rate is 29.0% 2008: 29.9% based on a to a number of instances where the .
tax charge of 14.0m on adjusted profit principle of fiscal neutrality was not before taxation and exceptionals of being applied in the taxation of bingo Changes to gaming taxation 48.5m.
During 2009 there were a number of effective tax rate of 30% to 33% as a result of prior year adjustments arising Linneweber changes to UK gaming taxation, with In 2005, the European Court of Justice increases for bingo, casino card room in the UK and Spain following the ECJ ruled that in the case of successful resolution of a number of games e. g. poker and gaming machines.
Linneweber, the inconsistent application historical issues.
The effective tax rate is The rate for bingo was increased from of VAT to amusement machines, expected to increase to around 30% in 15% to 22% and the application of VAT depending on their location, constituted 2010.
Further details on the taxation was rescinded see details on Linneweber a breach of fiscal neutrality.
Based upon charge are provided in note 6. claims below.
The net effect of these two this ruling, Rank has submitted a number changes caused an increase in taxation Cash tax rate of claims for historic VAT paid on for the licensed bingo clubs industry.
products where exemptions have existed After intensive lobbying by the Bingo The Group had a number of tax refunds for similar products.
Association, HM Treasury announced in in the year, resulting in an effective cash its 2009 Pre-Budget Report that it would tax rate of 8.9% on adjusted profit.
Interval bingo amend the rate to 20% from the time of A refund was received in the Netherlands Prior to April 2009, HMRC adopted an the 2010 Budget.
as a result of the carry-back of losses inconsistent approach to the taxation of 38 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 games of interval bingo with VAT being UK tax regime applied to some but not all games.
Rank Gamingduty Grossprofitstax VAT AMLD annual has argued that this constituted a breach Bingo of fiscal neutrality and thus submitted a claim for VAT paid on revenues from Main stage bingo 22% 20% interval bingo between January 2003 and Interval bingo 22% 20% December 2005.
This claim was updated Category B3 gaming machines 17.5% 2,215 to June 2008, at which point Rank, Category C gaming machines 17.5% 830 following a ruling in its favour by the VAT & Duties Tribunal, elected to stop Casino paying VAT on interval bingo.
Casino games and poker 15% 0 to 1,929k Value of claim: 59.1m plus interest tax on gaming win in a six 20% 1,929k to 3,259k Status: Tribunal ruling upheld by High month period 30% 3,259k to 5,588k Court: claim paid by HMRC November 40% 5,588k to 10,503k 2008 and interest of 6.8m paid in July 50% over 10,503k 2009: decision appealed to the Court of Appeal.
Category B1 gaming machines 17.5% 2,815 Interactive Main stage bingo Sports betting 15% Prior to 2009, Rank has argued that the taxation of main stage bingo also Gaming casino, bingo, poker 15% constituted a breach of fiscal neutrality TheVAT ratewas15%%on1January2010.
and submitted a claim for VAT paid on Therate %to22%on30April2009.
 revenues from main stage bingo between % 2004 and 2008.
This claim was updated been published.
to April 2009, at which point bingo revenues were made exempt from VAT.
The potential benefits from other VAT claims outlined above.
If HMRC Value of claim: up to 16m plus interest claims being made under Conde Nast were successful, Rank would be required Status: in December 2009, HMRC Fleming principles cannot at present to repay the value of the payments announced that rulings on interval bingo be estimated with certainty as they received to date plus interest and HMRCs would apply equally to main stage bingo: depend upon the outcome of other costs.
In April 2010, the Court of Appeal Rank has requested payment from HMRC.
litigation and the validation by HMRC will hear HMRCs appeal on interval bingo of certain calculations.
Following this Amusement machines hearing it is possible that these cases will Prior to December 2005, HMRC adopted Interest be appealed to the Supreme Court and an inconsistent approach to the taxation Rank is also entitled to interest on the ultimately the European Court of Justice.
of amusement machines, with revenue claims above.
At present, HMRC pays Details of the claims are also set out from certain categories of machine being simple interest on repayments caused in note 36 Contingent assets.
The subject to VAT while other categories by its error.
However, there is ongoing Group believes that it has a reasonable were exempt.
Rank has argued this litigation that interest should be paid on chance of success with each claim.
The constituted a breach of fiscal neutrality a compound basis and Rank has protected table below sets out the current position and submitted a claim for VAT paid on its position with regard to such claims.
on the claims excluding interest.
revenues from amusement machines Appeals process between 2002 and 2005.
HMRC continues to appeal each of the Value of claim: up to 26m plus interest VAT reclaims Status: Tribunal ruling upheld by High Court: payment requested in January Claim Period Amount Status 2010: HMRC has appealed the decision Overpayment of output 2003-2008 59.1m Money received but HMRC to the Court of Appeal.
VAT on interval bingo is appealing.
Court of Appeal case to be heard Conde Nast Fleming in April 2010.
In 1997, HMRC introduced a three-year retrospective cap on claims for overpaid Overpayment of 2002-2005 as much as Tribunal ruling in Ranks favour and VAT.
The effectiveness of this cap was output VAT on 26m repayment requested from HMRC.
successfully challenged in the courts the machine income Appeal by HMRC to be heard at Conde Nast Fleming cases.
As a result, Court of Appeal in April 2010.
Rank was able to re-visit VAT periods up Incorrect introduction various not known Claims lodged awaiting HMRC to December 1996. of 3 year cap on at present validation of calculations.
Rank has submitted a series of claims VAT reclaims for VAT overpaid, including one for Overpayment of output 1980-1996 as much as Claim lodged awaiting HMRC interval bingo prior to 1996.
HMRC has VAT on interval bingo 35m validation of calculations.
issued guidance that, subject to impacted by 3 year cap verification of the amount, interval bingo on VAT reclaims claims should be paid.
Therefore, the Overpayment of output 2004-2009 as much as Claim lodged awaiting HMRC Group expects to receive up to 35m in VAT on main stage bingo 16m validation of calculations.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 39 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE B B Boardofdirectors TheBoard    leadership, prudentmanagement andeffectivecontrols.
Name: Peter Johnson Name: Ian Burke Title: Chairman Title: Chief executive Appointment: January 2007 Appointment: March 2006 Age: 62 Age: 53 ur role includes agreeing Skills and experience: Peter Johnson was Skills and experience: Ian Burke was strategy and objectives non-executive chairman of Inchcape previously chief executive of the Holmes and making sure that the plc from 2006 until 2009 and previously Place Group the former health club necessary financial and chief executive of its international operator, chief executive of Thistle Ohuman resources are in motors business.
His former posts Hotels plc and managing director of place to fulfil them.
include sales and marketing director the bingo operator Gala Clubs.
We also monitor and review the of the Rover Group, chief executive of Companys financial and management the Marshall Group and non-executive performance and set the standards of director of Wates Group.
He is a conduct that shape our relationships non-executive director of Bunzl plc.
with shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders.
Name: Richard Greenhalgh Name: Owen ODonnell Name: Bill Shannon Title: Senior independent Title: Non-executive director Title: Non-executive director non-executive director Appointment: September 2008 Appointment: April 2006 Appointment: July 2004 Age: 43 Age: 60 Age: 65 Skills and experience: Currently nonSkills and experience: Chairman of Skills and experience: Chairman of executive chairman of fanduel.
com, Aegon UK plc, Bill Shannon is also Unilever UK between 1998 and 2004 and the online fantasy sports site, Owen a non-executive director of Barratt chairman of First Milk until 2009, Richard ODonnells previous appointments Developments plc and Johnsons Service Greenhalgh is currently chairman of The include chief financial officer of the Group Plc and an operating partner at Council for Industry and Higher online media company Joost and of the Tri-Artisan Partners, a private equity Education, CARE International UK, and a online gaming companies Betfair and house.
He was previously an executive member of the advisory board of Liaison King.
com, director of finance and director of Whitbread plc, chairman of Financial Services Limited.
He is a fellow performance measurement at Pearson plc the Gaucho Grill restaurant group and of Green Templeton College, Oxford.
and finance director of FT. com and Extel.
a non-executive director of Matalan plc.
40 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
