Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Report of the Audit Committees Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of A copy of the terms of reference of each Audit Committee is Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, in conjunction with published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, the Committees and has been approved by the respective boards.
Committee membership The Committees each comprise at least three independent The report meets the requirements of the Combined Code on non-executive directors.
The members of each of the Committees Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council, that served during the year are: Lord Sharman Chairman of and the requirements of Dutch law.
the Committees, Lisa Hook, David Reid and Ben van der Veer from 3 September 2009.
Lord Sharman and David Reid, both Audit Committees UK chartered accountants, and Ben van der Veer, a registered The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in relation to accountant in the Netherlands, are considered to have significant, the respective companies are set out in written terms of reference recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of the and include: members of each of the Committees are set out on page 51. i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Appointments to the Committees are made on the recommendation company, and any formal announcements relating to the of the Nominations Committee and are for periods of up to three companys financial performance, reviewing significant years, extendable by no more than two additional three-year financial reporting judgements contained in them: periods, so long as the member continues to be independent.
Details of the remuneration policy in respect of members of the ii to review the companys internal financial controls and the Committees and the remuneration paid to members for the year companys internal control and risk management systems: ended 31 December 2009 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 78. iii to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: Committee activities The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year: in iv to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the January, February, June, July and December, and report on these shareholders for their approval in general meetings, in relation meetings to the respective boards at the next board meetings.
to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external The principal business of these meetings includes: auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: January: review of critical accounting policies and practices, and significant financial reporting issues and judgements arising v to review and monitor the external auditors independence and in connection with the annual financial statements: review of risk objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into management and internal control effectiveness: reviewing and consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements: approving the internal audit plan: review of internal audit findings: and February: review and approval of annual financial statements, vi to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of the results announcement and related formal statements: review external auditor to supply non audit services, taking into account of external audit findings: relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non audit services by the external audit firm, and to monitor compliance.
June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, performance, expertise, resources, objectivity and independence of the The Committees report to the respective boards on their activities external auditors and the effectiveness of the external and identifying any matters in respect of which they consider that action internal audit process: agreeing the external audit plan: reviewing or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the significant financial reporting issues and judgements arising steps to be taken.
in connection with the interim financial statements: review of significant external financial reporting and regulatory The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this role in developments: review of risk management activities: review respect of the publishing and information operating business.
The of report from external auditors on control matters: review functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing activities of internal audit findings: are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees July: review and approval of the interim financial statements, fulfil their roles from the perspective of the parent companies and results announcement and related formal statements: review both Committees have access to the reports to and the work of of external audit findings: review of internal audit findings: the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board in this respect.
December: review of year end financial reporting and accounting issues: review of significant external financial The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any matters reporting and regulatory developments: review of external within their terms of reference and have access to all resources and audit findings to date: review of internal audit findings and information that they may require for this purpose.
The Committees risk management activities.
are entitled to obtain legal and other independent professional advice and have the authority to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 79 Report of the Audit Committees continued The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended by the vi received presentations from the Reed Elsevier Group plc Chief Financial Officer, the Reed Elsevier Group plc group financial treasurer on the group insurance programme and on group controller, chief risk officer and director of internal audit, and audit pension schemes and from general counsel on product partners of the external auditors.
Additionally, the managing director liability risk.
and senior representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance BV attend the July and February meetings of the parent vii received regular updates from the CFO of Reed Elsevier company Audit Committees.
At two or more of the meetings each on developments within the finance function.
year, the Committees additionally meet separately with the external auditors without management present.
Lord Sharman, Lisa Hook and David Reid attended all five meetings of the Committees in 2009 and Ben van der Veer attended the one In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of the 2009 meeting of the Committees since his appointment.
financial year, the Committees have: The external auditors have attended all meetings of the Committees.
i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier Group They have provided written reports at the February, June, July plc group financial controller that set out areas of significance in and December meetings summarising the most significant findings the preparation of the financial statements, including: review of from their audit work.
These reports have been discussed by the the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets for possible Committees and actions agreed where necessary.
impairment, review of estimated useful lives of intangible assets, accounting for pensions and related assumptions, accounting The external auditors have confirmed their independence from for share based remuneration and related assumptions, review management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on of the carrying value of investments, accounting treatment auditor independence.
This policy sets out inter alia the requirements for acquisitions and disposals and business restructuring, for rotation of the lead, review and other senior audit partners, as application of revenue recognition and cost capitalisation well as guidelines for the provision of permitted non audit services.
policies, accounting for derivatives, review of tax reserves The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners and provisions for lease obligations, and the use of the going responsible for the engagement every five years and the current concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
lead partner is new to the engagement in the year.
Any decision Areas of focus in 2009 were the accounting and judgements to open the audit to tender is taken only on the recommendation in respect of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, of the Committees.
The Committees have reviewed and agreed segmental reporting, revenue recognition and cost capitalisation the non audit services provided by the external auditors, together as business models evolve from print publications to online with the associated fees.
The external auditors fees for audit services, assets held for sale and recognition of liabilities arising services have been reviewed and approved by the Committees.
At their meeting in June 2009, the Committees conducted a ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance formal review of the performance of the external auditors and the with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure effectiveness of the external audit process, which included a review requirements and received regular update reports on accounting of the report on the external auditors by the Audit Inspection Unit and regulatory developments.
of the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Based on this review, and on their subsequent observations on the planning and execution iii received and discussed regular reports on the management of the external audit for the year ended 31 December 2009, of material risks and reviewed the effectiveness of the systems the Committees have recommended to the respective boards of internal control.
As part of this review, detailed internal control that resolutions for the reappointment of the external auditors be evaluation and certification is obtained from management proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
Deloitte LLP across the operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit and Deloitte Accountants BV or their predecessor Deloitte firms and discussed with the Committees.
were first appointed respectively auditors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV for the financial year ended 31 December 1994. iv received and discussed regular reports from the Reed Elsevier In addition to the annual review of the performance of the external Group plc chief risk officer and director of internal audit auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, at least every summarising the status of the Reed Elsevier risk management four years the Committees consider whether the objectives of the activities and the findings from internal audit reviews and the audit would be better served through a formal tender process for actions agreed with management.
Areas of focus in 2009 the auditor appointment.
included the continued compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the The effectiveness of the operation of the Audit Committees documentation and testing of internal controls over financial was reviewed in January 2009 and again as part of the effectiveness reporting, project management of development spend, review of the Boards in December 2009. restructuring and acquisition integration activities, regulatory compliance and review of information security.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch Chairman of the Audit Committees v reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2009 and monitored execution.
Reviewed the resources, budget and 17 February 2010 effectiveness of the internal audit function.
80 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
