Structure and corporate governance Corporate structure The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Executive Reed Elsevier was created in January 1993, when Reed Elsevier Board and Supervisory Board, together the Combined Board PLC and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their business to two jointly support the principles and provisions of corporate governance owned companies, Reed Elsevier Group plc, a UK registered contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued company which owns the publishing and information businesses, by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the UK Code and and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, a Dutch registered company which those contained in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued owns the financing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier in December 2008 the Dutch Code.
Reed Elsevier PLC, which NV have retained their separate legal and national identities and are has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, has complied publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in throughout the year with the UK Code.
Reed Elsevier NV, which London and New York, and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are listed has its primary listing on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange, in Amsterdam and New York.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier has complied throughout the year with the UK Code, and subject NV entered into a Governing Agreement to regulate their relationship to limited exceptions as explained in the Reed Elsevier NV Report following the merger of their respective businesses.
The agreement of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board on pages regulates the economic interests of the parties and the composition 162 to 165, has applied the best practice provisions of the Dutch of their boards and those of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of Elsevier Code.
For further information on the application of the Dutch Code, Reed Finance BV as further referred to below.
see the Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Equalisation arrangements Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% interest Relations with shareholders in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds a 39% interest Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in regular in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Elsevier NV holding a 61% dialogue with institutional shareholders, and presentations interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC additionally holds a 5.8% indirect equity on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses are made after the interest in Reed Elsevier NV, reflecting the arrangements entered announcement of the interim and full year results.
The boards of into between the two companies at the time of the merger, which Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV commission periodic determined the equalisation ratio whereby one Reed Elsevier NV reports on the attitudes and views of the companies institutional ordinary share is, in broad terms, intended to confer equivalent shareholders and the results are the subject of formal presentations economic interests to 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
A trading update is provided at the The equalisation ratio is subject to change to reflect share splits respective Annual General Meetings of the two companies and and similar events that affect the number of outstanding ordinary towards the end of the financial year through Interim Management shares of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the boards to communicate with individual shareholders.
Both Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV offer e-voting facilities shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in Reed Elsevier, in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
The Chairman, and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other than Reed Elsevier PLC the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the chairmen have a 47.1% economic interest in Reed Elsevier.
Holders of of the board committees, other directors and a representative ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV enjoy of the external auditors are available to answer questions from substantially equivalent dividend and capital rights with respect to shareholders.
The interim and annual results announcements and their ordinary shares.
presentations, together with the Interim Management Statements and other important announcements and corporate governance The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV documents concerning Reed Elsevier, are published on the Reed have agreed, other than in special circumstances, to recommend Elsevier website, www.
equivalent gross dividends including, with respect to the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax credit The boards based on the equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share The board of Reed Elsevier PLC, the Combined Board of pays dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax law with respect Reed Elsevier NV and the board of Reed Elsevier Group plc are to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share harmonised.
All of the directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are also pays dividends in euros and is subject to Dutch tax law with respect members of the board of directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and are a to dividend and capital rights.
The exchange rate used for each member of either the Executive Board or the Supervisory Board of dividend calculation is the spot euro sterling exchange rate, averaged Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier NV may nominate for appointment over a period of five consecutive business days commencing two directors who are not appointed to the boards of either Reed with the tenth business day before the announcement of the Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Following the appointment proposed dividend.
of Marike van Lier Lels to the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board in January 2010, there are currently two such directors serving on Compliance with codes of best practice the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board.
Dien fide Boer-Kruyt will The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have retire as a member of the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board at implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The names, policies applicable to companies listed on the stock exchanges nationality and biographical details of each director appear on of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United States.
The effect of this is that a standard applying to one will, where not in conflict, also be observed by the other.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance of executive and non-executive directors who bring a wide range 56 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Structure and corporate governance Structure and corporate governance continued of skills and experience to the deliberations of the boards.
All As previously announced, Mr Hommen stepped down as Chairman non-executive directors are independent of management and and as a member of the Boards at the conclusion of the Annual free from any business or other relationship which could materially General Meetings in April 2009.
Following an external candidate interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
search, undertaken by the Nominations Committee with the The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV have assistance of external consultants, the Nominations Committee appointed one non-executive director Supervisory Board member recommended to the Boards the appointment of Anthony Habgood to act as senior independent director, who is available to meet as Chairman of the Boards.
Mr Habgood has a proven track record with institutional shareholders and assist in resolving concerns of leadership and a wealth of boardroom and international in cases where alternative channels are inappropriate.
The senior experience across different business sectors.
independent director also leads the annual assessment of the functioning and performance of the Chairman of Reed Elsevier PLC During the year the Nominations Committee engaged external Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
A profile, consultants to assist in the recruitment of additional suitably which identifies the skills and experience of the non-executive experienced non-executive directors.
In September 2009 the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and the members of the Supervisory Nominations Committee recommended the appointment of Board of Reed Elsevier NV, is available on the Reed Elsevier website, Ben van der Veer to the Boards.
Mr Van der Veer has extensive www.
In January 2010 Marike van Lier Lels was appointed as a member of the Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders maintain their Supervisory Board.
Mrs Van Lier Lels has extensive business rights to appoint individuals to the respective boards in accordance and international experience, along with specific knowledge with the provisions of the Articles of Association of these companies.
of employee related matters in the Netherlands.
Subject to this, no individual may be appointed to the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV either members of the Executive Erik Engstrom, who was appointed an executive director and Board or the Supervisory Board or Reed Elsevier Group plc unless Chief Executive Officer of the Elsevier division in 2004, was recommended by the joint Nominations Committee.
Members of the appointed Chief Executive Officer of Reed Elsevier in November Committee abstain when their own re-appointment is being considered.
Mr Engstrom has extensive management experience in the media sector in the US and Europe, including five highly successful All Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV directors are subject years developing Reed Elseviers worldwide scientific, technical and to retirement at least every three years, and are able then to make medical information and solutions business.
themselves available for re-election by shareholders at the respective Annual General Meetings.
However, as a general rule, non-executive Ian Smith ceased to be a director and Chief Executive Officer of directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier in November 2009.
NV Supervisory Board serve on the respective board for two three-year terms, although the boards may invite individual directors At the Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General to serve an additional three-year term.
Meetings, to be held on 20 and 21 April 2010 respectively, Anthony Habgood, Ben van der Veer, Erik Engstrom, Mark Armour Board changes and Robert Polet will retire from the boards and, being eligible, Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards of will seek re-election.
As mentioned above, Dien fide Boer-Kruyt will Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc retire from the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board on 20 April 2010, are noted in the table below.
and is not seeking re-appointment.
Board attendance Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc Date of Number of Number of Number of appointment meetings Number meetings Number meetings Number of cessation held whilst of meetings held whilst of meetings held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended a director attended a director attended Mark Armour 8 8 8 8 10 10 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt n a n a 8 7 n a n a Sir Crispin Davis March 2009 1 1 1 1 1 1 Mark Elliott 8 8 8 8 10 10 Erik Engstrom 8 7 8 7 10 9 Anthony Habgood June 2009 3 3 3 3 5 5 Jan Hommen April 2009 5 3 5 3 5 3 Lisa Hook 8 8 8 8 10 10 Robert Polet 8 8 8 8 10 10 Andrew Prozes 8 8 8 8 10 10 David Reid 8 7 8 7 10 9 Lord Sharman 8 8 8 8 10 10 Ian Smith January 2009 7 6 7 6 9 8 November 2009 Ben van der Veer September 2009 2 2 2 2 3 3 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 57 Structure and corporate governance continued Taking into account the assessment by the Corporate Governance Audit Committees: Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Committee of the qualifications and performance of each individual Reed Elsevier Group plc have established Audit Committees.
director seeking re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meetings, The Committees comprise only non-executive directors, all of whom the Nominations Committee has recommended to the boards the are independent, and are chaired by Lord Sharman.
A report of the re-appointment of each director.
Audit Committees, setting out the role of the Committees and their main activities during the year, appears on pages 79 and 80.
Board induction and information Number of On appointment and as required, directors receive training meetings appropriate to their level of previous experience.
This includes Date of held whilst a Number of the provision of a tailored induction programme so as to provide appointment Committee meetings newly appointed directors with information about the Reed Elsevier Members during the year member attended businesses and other relevant information to assist them in Lisa Hook 5 5 performing their duties.
Non-executive directors are encouraged David Reid 5 5 to visit the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet management and Lord Sharman 5 5 senior staff.
Ben van der Veer September 2009 1 1 All directors have full and timely access to the information required The functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
They have activities are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier access to the services of the respective company secretaries, other Reed Finance BV.
members of Reed Elseviers management and staff, and external advisors.
Directors may take independent professional advice in Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc has the furtherance of their duties, at the relevant companys expense.
established a Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for recommending to the boards the remuneration for the executive In addition to scheduled board and board committee meetings held directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed during the year, directors attend many other meetings and site visits.
The Committee, which during the year comprised only Where a director is unable to attend a board or board committee independent non-executive directors, is chaired by Mark Elliott.
meeting he or she is provided with all relevant papers and Anthony Habgood was appointed a member of the Committee in information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss issues January 2010.
A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been arising with the respective Chairman and other Board members.
approved by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 62 to 78.
This report also Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier board structure comprising serves as disclosure of the directors remuneration policy, and the a Supervisory Board and a Management Board.
The Supervisory remuneration and interests of the directors in the shares of the two Board consists of Rudolf van den Brink Chairman, Mark Armour parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
and Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, with the Management Board consisting of Jacques Billy, Gerben fide Jong and Jans van der Woude.
Appointment Number of to the Supervisory and Management Boards are made by Elsevier Date of meetings Reed Finance BVs shareholders, in accordance with the companys appointment held whilst a Number of cessation Committee meetings Articles of Association.
Dien fide Boer-Kruyt will retire from the Members during the year member attended Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV in April 2010.
Mark Elliott 4 4 It was resolved that Ben van der Veer and Marike van Lier Lels Jan Hommen April 2009 1 0 will be appointed to this board in the first half of 2010.
Robert Polet 4 4 Number of David Reid February 2009 3 3 Date of meetings Number of appointment held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended Nominations Committee: Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a joint Nominations Committee, which provides Mark Armour 3 2 a formal and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment Jacques Billy 3 3 of new directors to the boards.
Following the retirement of Sir Crispin Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 3 3 Davis in March 2009, the Committee now comprises only independent Rudolf van den Brink 3 3 non-executive directors.
Gerben fide Jong 3 3 Jans van der Woude February 2009 2 2 The Committees terms of reference include assuring board succession and making recommendations to the boards of Board Committees Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, concerning the appointment or re-appointment of directors to, the following committees, all of which have written terms of and the retirement of directors from, those boards.
In conjunction reference, have been established by the respective boards.
with the Chairman of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Remuneration Membership of each committee is set out on pages 50 and 51.
Committee and external consultants, the Committee is also The terms of reference of the committees are published on the responsible for developing proposals for the remuneration Reed Elsevier website, www.
and fees for new directors.
In recommending appointments to the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board, the Committee considers the knowledge, experience and background of 58 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Structure and corporate governance Structure and corporate governance continued individual directors and the Supervisory Board as a whole, Internal control having regard to the profile adopted for the constitution of the Parent companies Supervisory Board see www.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems Number of of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Date of meetings Finance BV.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV appointment held whilst a Number of have each adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be cessation Committee meetings brought to them for decision.
In relation to Reed Elsevier Group plc Members during the year member attended and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Sir Crispin Davis March 2009 4 4 Reed Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual budgets, and Mark Elliott 9 7 receive regular reports on the operations, including the treasury and Anthony Habgood June 2009 3 3 risk management activities of the two companies.
Major transactions Jan Hommen April 2009 5 2 proposed by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed David Reid 9 9 Finance BV require the approval of the boards of both Reed Elsevier Lord Sharman 9 8 PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Corporate Governance Committee: Reed Elsevier PLC and The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees Reed Elsevier NV have established a joint Corporate Governance meet on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control Committee, which is responsible for reviewing ongoing developments and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed and best practice in corporate governance.
The Committee is also Finance BV.
responsible for recommending the structure and operation of the various committees of the boards and the qualifications and criteria Operating companies for membership of each committee, including the independence of The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the system members of the boards.
The Committee comprises only non-executive of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing and information directors, and is chaired by Anthony Habgood.
Marike van Lier Lels businesses, while the boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are was appointed a member of the Committee in January 2010. responsible for the system of internal control in respect of the finance group activities.
The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc During the year the Committee assessed the performance of and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are also responsible for reviewing individual directors and, led by the senior independent director, also the effectiveness of their systems of internal control.
assessed the performance of the Chairman.
Using questionnaires completed by all directors, the Committee reviewed the functioning The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance and constitution of the boards and their committees.
Based on BV have implemented an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, these assessments and on the board effectiveness review, the monitoring and managing the more significant risks faced by their Committee believes that the performance of each director continues respective businesses.
This process has been in place throughout to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to their the year ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date of the respective roles in Reed Elsevier.
approvals of the Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009.
Date of Number of Reed Elsevier Group plc appointment meetings Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established framework of procedures cessation held whilst a Number of during the Committee meetings and internal controls, with which the management of each business Members year member attended is required to comply.
Group businesses are required to maintain systems of internal control which are appropriate to the nature and Dien fide Boer-Kuyt 2 1 scale of their activities and address all significant operational and Mark Elliott 2 2 financial risks that they face.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc Anthony Habgood June 2009 2 2 has adopted a schedule of matters that are required to be brought Jan Hommen April 2009 0 0 to it for decision.
Lisa Hook 2 2 Robert Polet 2 2 David Reid 2 2 Lord Sharman 2 2 Ben van der Veer September 2009 1 1 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 59 Structure and corporate governance continued Reed Elsevier Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business Elsevier Reed Finance BV Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, which and requires officers and employees to behave in an open, are applied to all Elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
The boards honest, ethical and principled manner.
The Code also outlines of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have adopted schedules of matters confidential procedures enabling employees to report any concerns that are required to be brought to them for decision.
Procedures are about compliance, or about Reed Elseviers financial reporting in place for monitoring the activities of the finance group, including a practice.
The Code is published on the Reed Elsevier website, comprehensive treasury reporting system.
The major risks affecting www.
the finance group have been identified and evaluated and are subject to regular review.
The controls in place to manage these Each division has identified and evaluated its major risks, the risks and the level of residual risk accepted are monitored by the controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of residual boards.
The internal control system of the Elsevier Reed Finance BV risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures are group is reviewed each year by the external auditors.
embedded into the operations of the business and include the monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to Annual review management and board attention.
The major risks identified include As part of the year end procedures, the Audit Committees and business continuity, protection of IT systems and data, challenges to boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier intellectual property rights, management of strategic and operational Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV review the effectiveness change, evaluation and integration of acquisitions, and recruitment of the systems of internal control and risk management during and retention of personnel.
Further detail on the principal risks facing the last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, Reed Elsevier is set out on pages 47 and 48. rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but The major strategic risks facing the Reed Elsevier Group plc not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
businesses are considered by the Board.
Reed Elseviers Chief Risk Officer has the responsibility to provide regular reports to the Board The boards have confirmed, subject to the above, that as regards and Audit Committee.
Working closely with divisional and business financial reporting risks, the respective risk management and management and with the central functions, the role of the Chief control systems provide reasonable assurance against material Risk Officer is to ensure that Reed Elsevier is managing its business inaccuracies or loss and have functioned properly during the year.
risks effectively and in a coordinated manner across the business with clarity on the respective responsibilities and interdependencies.
Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements Litigation and other legal regulatory matters are managed by legal The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier directors in Europe and the United States.
Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required to prepare financial statements as at the end of each financial period, The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives regular in accordance with applicable law and regulations, which give a true reports on the identification and management of material risks and and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the profit or loss, of the reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives regular respective companies and their subsidiaries, joint ventures and reports from both internal and external auditors on internal control associates.
They are responsible for maintaining proper accounting and risk management matters.
In addition, each division is required, records, for safeguarding assets, and for taking reasonable steps at the end of the financial year, to review the effectiveness of internal to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors controls and risk management and report its findings on a detailed are also responsible for selecting suitable accounting policies and basis to the management of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
These reports applying them on a consistent basis, making judgements and are summarised and, as part of the annual review of effectiveness, estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
submitted to the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the board on Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the Reed any significant internal control matters arising.
Elsevier combined financial statements, which are the responsibility of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies which comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
60 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Structure and corporate governance Structure and corporate governance continued Going concern A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, having Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other senior Reed made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist Elsevier managers, provides assurance to the Chief Executive Officer for the combined businesses to continue in operational existence for and Chief Financial Officer regarding their Section 302 certifications.
the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2009 financial statements.
Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief In reaching this conclusion, the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV have had due regard to the combined businesses and of Reed Elsevier NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports financial position as at 31 December 2009, the strong free cash flow 2009 on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining of the combined businesses, Reed Elseviers ability to access capital adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial markets and the principal risks facing Reed Elsevier.
reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and A commentary on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are presented cash flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2009 on Form 20-F. 31 December 2009 is set out in the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 36 to 39.
This shows that after taking account of available cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings, none of Reed Elseviers borrowings fall due within the next two years.
Reed Elseviers policies on liquidity, capital management and management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Further information on liquidity of the combined businesses can be found in note 19 of the combined financial statements.
The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier are set out on pages 47 and 48.
US certificates As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and by related rules issued by the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV certify in the respective Annual Reports 2009 on Form 20-F to be filed with the Commission that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that they have: designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to Reed Elsevier is made known to them: evaluated the effectiveness of Reed Elseviers disclosure controls and procedures: based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management or other employees who have a significant role in Reed Elseviers internal controls: and presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2009 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 61
