Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate Changes to the Groups management and control structure.
governance set out in the Combined Code published in June Capital investment in excess of 5 million.
2008 the Code for financial periods beginning after 29 June 2008.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Material contracts annual value in excess of 5 million.
shareholders and this report describes how the Board applied Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions the principles of good governance.
In its prospectus dated and all directors are encouraged to request inclusion of any 8 September 2008 the Company stated its intention to unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
voluntarily comply with the Combined Code so far as it is practical for a Luxembourg company to do so.
There is no Roles of Board members similar corporate governance regime in Luxembourg.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Board At 31 December 2009, the Board of Directors was made up The Chairman of seven members comprising the Chairman, two executive John Matthews is responsible for leadership of the Board, directors and four non-executive directors.
Biographical setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He details of the directors are set out on pages 22 and 23. ensures effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He Role of the Board facilitates both the contribution of the non-executive directors The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial and constructive relations between the executive directors leadership and to review the overall strategic development and non-executive directors.
The Board approves the corporate plan and the annual budget and reviews performance against The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, are targets at every meeting.
Through the Audit Committee, the responsible for ensuring all directors are properly briefed on directors ensure the integrity of financial information and the issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
effectiveness of financial controls and the internal control and risk management system.
The Board has delegated authority The Chairman is not deemed to be independent.
to the Remuneration Committee to set the remuneration On 18 December 2009, it was announced that John Matthews policy for directors and senior management.
The Nomination will retire from the Board with effect from 18 May 2010 the Committee recommends the appointment of Board Directors date of the next Annual General Meeting and will be replaced and has responsibility for succession planning at Board level.
The various Board Committees the Committees have as Chairman by Douglas Sutherland, who joined the Board authority to make decisions in their areas of expertise.
The Chief Executive Frequency of meetings Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and for its There were nine Board meetings during 2009. delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the individual attendance by the directors are shown below.
successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decisionMain Audit Remuneration Nomination making and responsibilities accordingly.
Board Committee Committee Committee Non-executive directors Total meetings 94 7 5 The non-executive directors each bring their own senior level Mark Dixon 9 of experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent counsel brought to the group by the non-executives Stephen Gleadle 9 enhances the overall decision making of the Board.
NonJohn Matthews83 executives are appointed for an initial three year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Martin Robinson 84 7 5 Meeting AGM after their appointment.
Lance Browne 94 7 5 On 18 December 2009, it was announced that Martin Ulrich Ogiermann 94 7 5 Robinson, senior independent non-executive director and Douglas Sutherland 94 6 5 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will also retire from the Board with effect from 18 May 2010 the date of the Matters reserved for the Board next AGM.
The Board will seek to appoint a new international The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for independent non-executive director in due course.
its decision, to ensure that no one individual has unfettered Company Secretary powers of decision.
These include: The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for Approval of regulatory announcements including the interim advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance and annual financial statements.
matters and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken Terms of reference and membership of the Board and its of all Board meetings and discussions.
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for Changes to the Groups capital structure.
com Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information visit regus.
com Board Committees External auditors: The Board has delegated certain of its governance KPMG Audit S.. r. l. were the Companys auditors for responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings to re-appoint KPMG Audit S.. r. l. as the Companys auditors are circulated to all Board members.
The Audit Committee will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity of the The terms of reference of the Committees have been external auditors, the effectiveness of the audit process and documented and approved by the Board and are available the rotation of the lead audit partner.
on the Companys website www.
A brief summary of the members, activities and terms of reference of the The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by Committees is provided below.
the Companys external auditor is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires prior approval from the Audit Audit Committee Committee to ensure that the provision of non-audit services Douglas Sutherland Chairman does not impair their independence or objectivity.
During Martin Robinson the year, KPMG performed due diligence work on certain Ulrich Ogiermann acquisitions.
KPMG is prohibited from providing services that Lance Browne would be considered to jeopardise their independence such The Board has delegated the responsibility for applying as book keeping services, valuations and system design.
an effective system of internal control and compliance, Remuneration Committee accurate external financial reporting, fulfilling its obligations Martin Robinson Chairman under law and the Combined Code, and managing the Lance Browne relationship with the Companys external auditors to the Ulrich Ogiermann Audit Committee.
The Committee consists entirely of nonDouglas Sutherland executive directors.
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
At the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 39. request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the Head of Risk Nomination Committee Management attend each meeting.
John Matthews Chairman Martin Robinson Summary terms of reference: Lance Browne Financial Reporting provide support to the Board by Ulrich Ogiermann monitoring the integrity of and ensuring that the published Douglas Sutherland financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial The Committee meets as required during the year to consider performance comply fully with the relevant statutes matters delegated to it under its terms of reference.
effectiveness, performance and leadership were discussed informally by the Board as a whole.
Internal control and risk systems review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and Summary terms of reference: risk management systems.
Board appointment and composition to regularly review Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal the structure, size and composition of the Board and make audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function recommendations on the role and nomination of directors is adequately resourced and free from management for appointment and reappointment to the Board for the restrictions, review and monitor responses to the findings purpose of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of skills, and recommendations of the internal auditors.
External audit the Audit Committee advises the Board Board Committees to make recommendations to the on the appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and Board in relation to the suitability of candidates for removal of the external auditors.
membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The appointment and removal of directors are matters Employee concerns the Audit Committee reviews the reserved for the full Board.
Companys arrangements under which employees may in confidence raise any concerns regarding possible Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations The Audit Committee ensures that these arrangements to the Board.
allow proportionate and independent investigation and Board performance assist the Chairman with the annual appropriate follow up action.
performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual performance and effectiveness of the Board.
The Audit Committee also meets independently with the Companys auditors and with the Head of Risk Management Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues to informally discuss matters of interest.
and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued under review the leadership needs of the organisation open market rents decrease, then Regus could be exposed to enable it to compete effectively.
to paying higher than market rent in these locations.
Principal risks and uncertainties If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could customers due to local property market conditions then have an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The this could result in reduced profitability or operating losses group has a risk management structure in place designed to in these markets.
identify, manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent review and evaluation is an essential part of the annual planning, clauses, the Group may benefit from paying below market budgeting and forecasting cycle.
rent in a market with increasing open market rents.
This may The directors have identied the following principal risks and allow the Group to improve profitability if the movements uncertainties affecting the company.
These do not constitute in open market rents are passed on to clients.
all of the risks facing the Group.
The length of the Groups leases or the period after which Economic downturn in significant markets the Group can exercise any break option in the leases is The Group has a significant proportion of its centres in the usually signicantly longer than the duration of the Groups Americas predominantly the USA and Europe.
An economic contracts with its customers.
If demand falls, the Group may downturn in these markets could adversely affect the Groups be unable to increase or maintain occupancy or price levels operating revenues thereby reducing operating performance and if revenue declines the Group may be unable to reduce or, in an extreme downturn, resulting in operating losses.
Additional costs could be incurred if the Group disposes of unprofitable centres.
Generally, the terms on which the Group earns revenues from customers and pays its suppliers principally landlords Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of are matched to reduce working capital needs.
However, certain Group assets could result in impairment.
a reduction in revenues, with no immediate decline in the Regus completes a review of the carrying value of its assets cost base, could result in significant funding shortfalls in annually to assess whether those carrying values can be the business.
Any funding shortfall may require the Group supported by the net present value of future cash ows derived to seek external funding or sell assets in the longer term.
This review examines the continued appropriateness of the assumptions in respect of which the In addition, competition may increase as a result of landlords carrying values of certain of the Groups assets are based.
offering surplus space at discounted prices and companies This includes an assessment of discount rates and long term seek to reduce their costs by sub-letting space.
These factors growth rates, and timing and quantum of future capital could result in reduced revenue for the Group as the prices it expenditure.
Due to the Groups substantial carrying value of is able to charge customers would be reduced.
goodwill under IFRS, the revision of any of these assumptions The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: to reect current or anticipated changes in operations or the financial condition of the Group could lead to an impairment The Group has entered into performance based leases in the carrying value of certain assets in the Group.
While with landlords where rent costs vary with revenues earned impairment does not impact reported cash ows, it does result by the centre.
in a non-cash charge in the consolidated income statement and Building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic thus no assurance can be given that any future impairments intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they would not affect the Companys reported distributable reserves become onerous.
In cities with a number of centres this and therefore its ability to make distributions to its shareholders allows the Group to stagger leases such that an orderly or repurchase its shares.
reduction in exposure to the location may be facilitated.
The Groups geographic expansion may increase exposure The prole of clients in a centre is continually reviewed to unpredictable economic, political and legal risks.
to avoid undue reliance on a particular client or clients Political, economic and legal systems in emerging markets in a particular industry group.
historically are less predictable than in countries with more Additionally, in the event of a downturn, the Group has developed institutional structures.
As the Group increasingly a number of options for mitigating losses, for example enters into emerging markets, the value of the Groups by closing centres at lease break points.
investments may be adversely affected by political, economic and legal developments which are beyond the Groups control.
The Groups strategy also focuses its growth into emerging markets that will reduce the proportion of the Groups revenue Exposure to movements in exchange rates generated from the USA and Europe over time and provide The Group has significant overseas operations whose better protection to the Group from an economic downturn businesses are generally conducted in the currency of the in a single market.
country in which they operate.
The principal exposures of the Group are to the US dollar and the euro with approximately Exposure to movements in property markets 39% of the Groups revenues being attributable to the US A number of the Groups lease contracts contain market rent dollar and 19% to the euro respectively.
This means that the costs of these leases may vary as a result of external movements in the property Given that transactions generally take place in the functional market.
In particular, in the UK, lease contracts typically currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to contain upward only rent reviews which means that should transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
com translation into sterling of overseas profits and net assets Centrally managed applications, systems and regional shared will be affected by prevailing exchange rates.
In the event that service centres either the US dollar or euro were to signicantly depreciate The Group has moved to a centrally managed applications and or appreciate against sterling, this would have an adverse or systems environment with the resultant effect that all systems beneficial impact to the Groups reported performance and and applications are housed in a central data centre.
the data centre and regional shared service centres be impacted as a result of circumstances outside of the Groups The financial risk management objectives and policies of the control there could be an adverse impact on the Groups Group, together with an analysis of the exposure to such risks operations and therefore its financial results.
This risk is are set out in note 23 of the Accounts.
Wherever possible, managed through a detailed service arrangement with our the Group attempts to create natural hedges against currency external data centre provider which incorporates appropriate exposures through matching income and expense and assets back-up procedures and controls.
and liabilities in the same currency.
Internal controls Given the continued volatility in exchange rates in January The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining 2009 the Board approved a policy which allows the Group a sound system of internal control and for periodically to hedge, subject to strict limits, the rates at which overseas reviewing its effectiveness.
This will enable the Group to have more certainty over the sterling value of these earnings.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Group reorganisation and restructuring Code, an ongoing process has been established for In October 2008, the Group entered into a Group identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the reorganisation to create a new Group structure.
The Groups system of internal controls is designed to: Reorganisations of international groups can lead to a risk facilitate the effective and efficient response to risks which of a significant tax liability.
In addition, as a result of the might affect the achievement of the Groups objectives.
scheme, it is expected that Regus plc will be regarded as safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss or fraud.
tax resident solely in Luxembourg.
If Regus plc were nonetheless to be treated as tax resident in any other help ensure the quality of internal and external jurisdiction, this could lead to an increase in the overall financial reporting.
effective tax rate and tax compliance costs of the Group.
help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
As a Jersey-incorporated company having its place of central No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance administration head ofce in Luxembourg and being tax against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system resident in Luxembourg, Regus plc is required to comply with of controls helps to manage rather than eliminate the risk of both Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where applicable.
In failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide addition, Regus plcs ordinary shares are listed on the Ofcial reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally List of the UKLA and admitted to trading on the main market be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for of the London Stock Exchange.
It is possible that conicts appropriate action.
may arise between the obligations of Regus plc under the Strategy and risk management laws of each of these jurisdictions or between the applicable The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic laws and the Listing Rules.
If an irreconcilable conict were direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly to occur then Regus plc may not be able to maintain its plans and performance targets for 2010 have been set by the status as a company tax resident in Luxembourg.
executive directors and are regularly reviewed by the main The Group manages the risk that a significant tax liability Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
could arise by taking appropriate advice, both in carrying out There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and the Group reorganisation and on an ongoing basis.
In addition, managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks the Group believes that under current laws and regulations and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible the risk of irreconcilable conicts between current laws and executives as a part of the budget process and these are regulations impacting Regus plc is also low.
Key risks are reported to As part of the Group reorganisation, the Group announced the Board and the Audit Committee.
The appropriateness of plans to operate an income access share IAS arrangement controls is considered by the executives, having regard to for the payment of dividends.
The Group expects that cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
dividends will be paid to Regus plc shareholders who make Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are regularly or are deemed to make an IAS election through the IAS considered by the Board and are formally reviewed and arrangements.
However there can be no certainty that approved by the Board annually.
dividends will be paid in this way and the IAS arrangements Control environment may be suspended or terminated at any time and for any High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at all reason.
If the IAS arrangements do no operate shareholders levels in the Group.
The following procedures are in place to will be paid dividends by Regus plc which may be subject to support this: Luxembourg withholding tax.
In addition, there is a low risk that share buy-backs undertaken by Regus plc could also be the induction process is used to educate new team subject to Luxembourg withholding tax.
members on the standards required from them in their role, Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued including business ethics and compliance, regulations and their area of responsibility which helps them to focus internal policies.
on operational issues that may require their input.
all team members are provided with a copy of the Team Information and communications processes Member Handbook which contains detailed guidance on The senior management team are integrally involved in the employee policies and the standards of behaviour required business and to this extent regularly discuss and address of staff.
issues and opportunities with regional and functional teams.
policies and procedures manuals and guidelines are readily Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, accessible through the Groups intranet site.
are held with the regional teams and functional heads on a monthly basis.
operational audit and self-certication tools which require individual centre managers to confirm their adherence to Regular staff communications include general information on Group policies and procedures.
the business from senior management as well as operational guidance on changes in policies and procedures.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy to recruit and develop appropriately skilled Sales staff and operational management periodically attend management and staff of high calibre, integrity and with regional sales or management conferences at which information appropriate disciplines.
on operational issues is shared.
Delegates present the key messages to employees who did not attend the event.
The Group has also established an externally hosted whistle-blowing channel to all staff to report issues and Monitoring effectiveness concerns in confidence.
The following key mechanisms were available to the Board at various times during the year in the conduct of its review Control processes of internal controls: The Company has had procedures in place throughout the Review of the Groups monthly management accounts which year and up to 22 March 2010, the date of approval of this contain detailed analysis of financial performance for the Group Annual Report, which accord with the Internal Control and each of the Groups geographic reporting segments.
Guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
These include the following: An ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, senior management meetings and divisional reviews as well as other The Board normally meets with regional executives every management meetings, for the formal identication of six months to carry out a wide-ranging review of Group and significant operational risks and mitigating control processes.
regional financial performance, business development opportunities, Group infrastructure and general Group Internal audit reviews of key risk areas.
The findings and management issues.
recommendations of each review are reported to management and the Audit Committee.
The annual budget process, is driven from senior management meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a detailed Quarterly post-investment reviews are presented to the level by business centre and roll-up at a country and Audit Committee to allow appraisal of the effectiveness regional level.
The executive directors review regional of investment activity.
budgets to ensure consistency with regional strategic A bi-annual internal control self-assessment and objectives, and the final budget is reviewed and approved management certication exercise covering the by the Board.
The approved budget forms the basis of effectiveness of financial and operational controls.
This is business management throughout the year.
based on a comprehensive internal control questionnaire Operational reports and financial reports are prepared and collated and reviewed by Internal Audit.
Results and any distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results necessary mitigating action plans are presented to senior are reviewed against budget and forecast and explanations management and the Audit Committee.
are received for all material movements.
Other matters Key policies and control procedures including finance, Board Performance Evaluation operations, and health and safety are documented in A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its manuals having Group-wide application.
These are available committees and individual directors is carried out annually by to all staff on the Groups intranet system.
means of detailed online questionnaires developed internally The Board has formal procedures in place for the review using the Linstock Board Review Service.
The aim is to ensure and approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The continuous improvement in the functioning of the Board.
Group Investment Committee comprising the executive The 2009 evaluation results were presented to the Board directors review all investments prior to approval by the during December 2009 and were subsequently reviewed by Board.
Additionally the form and content of investment the Nomination Committee taking into account the views of proposals is standardised to facilitate the review process.
The senior independent nonThe Group has clearly delegated authority limits with regard executive director reviewed the Chairmans performance.
to the approval of transactions.
Purchase orders must be Arising from the review carried out in 2009, the Board has obtained in advance for all purchases.
agreed to ongoing development in the following areas: Numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales and Strategy planning at Board level: and operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to provide management at all levels with performance data for Submission of information to the Board.
com Training and resources show of hands.
Substantial resolutions of the shareholders Appropriate training is made available for all new directors to require a poll to be taken.
assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Training Financial and other information is made available on the is provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with Companys website www.
the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
Re-election of the Board During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided All directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst at least every three years and directors appointed during the the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting period are required to seek re-election at the next AGM.
developments through presentations from management, internal audit and the external auditors.
The Board Non-executive directors are subject to the re-election programme includes presentations from management requirements and serve the Company under letters of which, together with site visits, increases the non-executive appointment, which have an initial three-year term.
directors understanding of the business and sector.
Compliance statement All directors have access to the advice and services of the The Company has complied with the provisions set out in Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended procedures, corporate governance and regulatory compliance 31 December 2009, with the exception of the following: are followed and complied with.
Should a director request Provision D. 1.1 The senior independent non-executive independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such director, Martin Robinson does not have regular meetings advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
Directors and Ofcers Insurance The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually be the main conduit with investors, rather than the senior and appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the independent non-executive director.
The Chairman directors and senior management in the event of a claim participates in investor meetings and makes himself available being brought against any of them in their capacity as for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
directors and ofcers of the Company.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and particularly the senior independent non-executive director on the results Dialogue with shareholders of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
On this basis, Regus reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with Regus considers that the senior independent non-executive the interim results announced in August September and director is able to gain full awareness of the issues and the preliminary final results announced normally in March.
Notwithstanding this policy, There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief all directors have a standing invitation to participate in Financial officer to give presentations of these results to meetings with investors.
the Companys institutional investors, analysts and media in London and other locations.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors on the Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys major shareholders.
The non-executive directors are given regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on request.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM The Company has engaged the services of Brunswick Group plc as their Investor Relations adviser.
AGM The AGM will be held in May in Luxembourg and will be attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting by a Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
