Directors' corporate governance report 19 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate APPOINTMENTS TO ThE BOARD governance.
This report, together with the Directors remuneration The Remuneration and nomination committee is the committee report on page 21 sets out how the Company has applied the responsible for reviewing the structure and composition of the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Board and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council and contains All the members of this committee are independent non-executive the information required by Section 7 of the FSA Disclosure and directors and a list of membership and the chair of the committee Transparency Rules.
The terms of reference of this committee are published on the Companys website.
DIRECTORS The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are ThE BOARD available for inspection at the AGM and at the registered office The Board comprises five executive and four non-executive upon written request.
The directors holding office at the date of this report and None of the executive directors holds a directorship in a FTSE their biographical details are given on pages 4 and 5.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEvELOPMENT effective business controls and review of business performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for The Board receives appropriate documentation, management decision.
These include the approval of annual and interim results accounts, forecasts and commentaries thereon in advance and interim management statements, company and business of each Board meeting to enable its members to review the acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, borrowings, financial performance of the Group, current trading and key material agreements, director and company secretary appointments business initiatives.
and removals, any patent-related dispute and other material Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training litigation, forecasts and major product development projects.
courses to update their knowledge of their duties as directors.
The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations are provided effectively.
In the financial year ended 30th June 2009, the Board as appropriate.
Non-executive directors are invited to attend met ten times and the directors attendance record at Board internal conferences, which provide information to the Group on new product development and marketing initiatives.
All directors and committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
In have access to the company secretary and to independent addition, the non-executive directors met a number of times without professional advice at the Companys expense where necessary executive directors present.
to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
The Board has two formally constituted committees, the Audit committee and the Remuneration and nomination committee.
There PERFORMANCE EvALuATION is an executive committee known as the Executive Board that is The Board has established a formal process, led by the senior responsible for the executive management of the Groups businesses.
independent director, for the annual evaluation of the performance It is chaired by the Chairman and includes the executive directors of of the Board and the Chairman.
This includes the completion of Renishaw plc and other senior management representatives.
a questionnaire designed and approved by the Board to provide A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps a framework for the evaluation process.
It is the role of the senior out the structure of delegation below Board level and includes independent director to summarise the responses and discuss the matters reserved to the Executive Board.
The Company them with individual directors and with the Board as a whole.
maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers as disclosed in the Directors report.
RE-ELECTION In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, The Company amended its articles of association in October 2008 the directors who offer themselves up for re-election at the AGM to deal with, amongst other things, the provisions on conflicts of interest in the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in to be held on 15th October 2009 will be Sir David McMurtry and October 2008.
The Board adopted a conflict of interests policy, John Deer.
putting in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any B.
DIRECTORS REMuNERATION conflicts and potential conflicts and authorisation by the Board if felt appropriate.
The Board intends to review the authorisations The Directors remuneration report set out on page 21 explains how granted, and the terms of such, on an annual basis.
the Company applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
ChAIRMAN AND ChIEF ExECuTIvE C. ACCOuNTABILITy AND AuDIT FINANCIAL REPORTING The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
However, the connection with the financial statements are explained in the Statement Board considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities at of directors responsibilities and the Independent auditors report.
Board level to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
GOING CONCERN BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to Each of the four non-executive directors is considered by the affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Financial review on pages 10 to 14, where also given are Board to be independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect a details of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 on non-executive directors judgement.
pages 43 and 44 in the financial statements includes the Group's objectives and policies for managing its capital, details of its financial The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
If the Chairman were to be excluded, this Code requirement would The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and be met.
However, as the Chairman is an executive director, the the directors have considered the current financial projections.
As a intention behind the Code requirement is not met.
The Board does consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to not comply with this requirement as it considers the balance of the manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain Board to be appropriate for the size of its business.
The senior independent director is Joe McGeehan and he is After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation available to discuss concerns with shareholders should the normal that the Company and the Group have adequate resources channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive or the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Finance Director fail to resolve such concerns or for which such Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in contact is inappropriate.
preparing the Annual report and accounts.
Annual report and accounts 2009 20 Directors' corporate governance report continued INTERNAL CONTROL The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal Manager and the external auditors in attendance.
At least one control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal meeting, or part, is held with the external auditors without executive control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure directors present.
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
D. RELATIONS WITh ShAREhOLDERS There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authorities.
DIALOGuE WITh INSTITuTIONAL ShAREhOLDERS There are also established and centrally documented control Presentations are given to institutional investors following procedures, including, for example, capital and other expenditure, publication of the half-year and full-year results, following which information and technology security, and legal and regulatory interim reports are published and annual reports are delivered to compliance.
These are applied throughout the Group.
Institutional investors are actively encouraged to The Group internal audit function provides independent and visit the Companys headquarters and manufacturing sites where objective assurance that the procedures are appropriate and they will meet at least one of the executive directors and have the effectively applied.
The Group Audit Manager attends Audit opportunity of discussing any issues with them.
Meetings with committee meetings to present annual internal audit plans and the investors, analysts and media are reported at each Board meeting results of such internal audits.
Actions are monitored by the Audit and analysts and brokers reports circulated so that the Board committee on an ongoing basis.
develops an understanding of the views of investors and others.
There is a process for the review of business risks throughout If requested, non-executive directors are available to attend the Group.
These are reported on a monthly basis by senior meetings with major shareholders.
All directors attend the AGM at management and overseas subsidiaries.
These reports are which they have the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
reviewed by the Board at each of its meetings.
The Board ensures that there are effective internal controls over CONSTRuCTIvE uSE OF ThE AGM the financial reporting and consolidation processes.
Monthly The AGM takes place at the Companys headquarters and formal accounts and forecasts are presented to the Board for review.
notification is sent to the shareholders at least 20 working days The Group internal audit function undertakes a programme of before the meeting.
A business presentation is given at the meeting review of subsidiaries accounting processes and performance to and all directors are available for questions during and after the provide assurance to the Board on the integrity of the information meeting.
Tours of the Companys facilities are offered.
supplied by each company which forms part of the consolidated The Company reports on the number of proxy votes lodged on results of the Group.
each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and the The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the effectiveness number of abstentions after the resolution has been dealt with on of the Groups system of internal controls and an updated risk a show of hands.
This information is provided to the shareholders and controls analysis for the Group.
The review covers all material attending the AGM and published on the Companys website controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls following the meeting.
6 R The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the The information required to be disclosed by this rule is contained in Group that has been in place during the year, is regularly reviewed the Directors report.
and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board confirms that necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERShIP ATTENDANCE significant failings or weaknesses identified from its review.
RECORD Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings of AuDIT COMMITTEE AND AuDITORS the Board and its committees at which the director was present The Audit committee comprises the four non-executive directors.
and, in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was A list of the members and the chairman is set out on page 5.
The eligible to attend during the year.
Board is satisfied that at least two members of the committee Remuneration & have recent and relevant financial experience, being Terry Audit nomination Garthwaite and David Snowden.
The terms of reference of this Director Board committee committee committee were reviewed during the year and are available on the Companys website.
Sir David McMurtry 10 10 - - The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures D J Deer 10 10 - - of the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory B R Taylor 10 10 - - requirements.
The committee monitors the integrity of the Groups A C G Roberts 10 10 - - financial statements and announcements relating to financial G McFarland 10 10 - - performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements J P McGeehan 9 10 2 3 1 1 contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal audit function.
T D Snowden 10 10 2 3 1 1 The committee has primary responsibility for making the T B Garthwaite 9 10 3 3 1 1 recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal W H Whiteley 8 10 2 3 0 1 of external auditors, which the Board puts to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements of effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
the Code except in relation to the following matters the reasons for The auditors provide a confirmation of independence on an annual non-compliance are stated in the report above : basis.
The committee reviews the nature and extent of the nonthe combined role of chairman and chief executive: and audit services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular reports on at least half the board, excluding the chairman, does not the balance of audit to non-audit fees.
The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, including N Tang possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
