28 Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance 3.
Board committees 28 The board 30 Performance 31 Auditors evaluation and auditor 28 Composition of the The board reviewed the terms of reference of the principal board independence board 30 Dialogue with major committees as part of its annual review of governance procedures shareholders 31 Disclosure of 28 Board committees and practices.
Agendas, papers and minutes of committee meetings information to 30 Accountability and 30 Independent nonauditors are generally provided to all board members.
Membership of the audit executive directors 31 Internal controls principal board committees below has not changed during the year.
30 Going concern 30 Chairman The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website, www.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 the Combined Code sets out guidance in the form of principles and Audit committee provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled to The principal oversight responsibilities of the committee cover follow good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority financial reporting, internal controls and risk management, requires companies listed in the UK to disclose in relation to various matters concerning the external auditors including their Section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied its appointment, the scope of their duties, their independence and principles and how they have complied with the provisions monitoring and receiving reports from the internal audit function.
The terms of reference of the committee re ect the Financial Reporting Councils guidance which is intended to assist listed 1.
The board companies in complying with the provisions applicable to audit committees set out in the Combined Code.
The committee The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction reviewed its terms of reference towards the end of 2009 and and control of the company and speci cally reserves certain concluded that they remained appropriate.
The audit committee matters for its consideration such as the approval of financial has also reviewed its effectiveness and concluded that it continues statements, major capital expenditure and major acquisitions and to operate effectively.
disposals as set out in the board governance procedures and practices manual, which is reviewed annually.
The chief executive The members of the committee at the end of the year were Duncan has delegated authority from the board to manage the company, Tatton-Brown chairman, chartered management accountant, subject to the strategic direction of the board.
He is also William Rucker, chartered accountant and Peter Bamford all of responsible for the achievement of the objectives set by the board whom are non-executive directors.
Of the members of the and preparing an overall strategy for the company to achieve such committee, both Duncan Tatton-Brown and William Rucker have objectives and the implementation of the overall strategy decided recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee reviews, by the board.
challenges and approves, as the case may be, presentations or reports from senior management, consulting as necessary with the The board meets routinely nine times a year and additionally when external auditors, internal auditors and company executives.
The necessary and follows an agreed formal schedule of matters which committee did not nd it necessary to seek external advice during are considered at individual meetings.
In 2009, the board met on the year, other than through its dialogue with the external auditors.
Details of directors attendance at board and principal committee meetings are set out on page 30.
The limited The committee invites the chairman, the chief executive, the chief number of directors absences from meetings was principally due financial of cer, the director of corporate accounting and control, to con icting business commitments.
the director of internal audit and representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings.
The company secretary attends The board has formal procedures over the identi cation and meetings in his role as secretary of the committee.
The committee authorisation of potential con icts of interest which are in line with has had a dialogue with the external auditors without executives current best practice.
The nomination committee reviewed these present during the year.
procedures in December 2009 and reported to the board that the procedures remained appropriate and effective.
During the year the committee met on four occasions and considered a range of matters in ful lment of its terms of reference.
Composition of the board During 2009, the committee reviewed the provision of overall The board currently comprises the chairman, six independent assurance within the group, with the aim of improving the ef ciency non-executive directors and three executive directors.
Each nonand effectiveness of the assurance process.
This included reviewing executive director serves for a xed term not exceeding three years audit arrangements, which had hitherto been provided, in part, by that may be renewed by mutual agreement for a further two terms a combination of in-house internal audit, outsourced internal audit of three years, subject to the board being satis ed with a directors and external audit.
Of particular relevance was the extent of the performance, independence and commitment.
Each director is groups operations in many overseas territories where a large required to be elected by shareholders at the annual general meeting proportion of historic internal audit processes had focused on basic following his her appointment and be re-elected by shareholders at financial controls which replicated the work undertaken by the least once every three years.
The boards policy is to appoint and auditors as a necessary part of their external audit.
retain non-executive directors who can apply their wider knowledge and experience to their understanding of the companys affairs.
Appointments to the board are made on the recommendation of the nomination committee following a rigorous selection process.
Information on the current directors is set out on page 23.
New members of the board receive appropriate training and induction which includes spending time in the companys operations.
Governance 29 Corporate governance Ac tivities of the internal audit department including resource The committee considered proposals submitted by its then auditors, plans, activity levels and objectives, the overall objective  LLP, and KPMG Audit Plc.
These proposals being to provide assurance as to the adequacy, effectiveness identi ed areas of duplication in the work performed by its internal and quality of the companys system of internal control, risk and external auditors which could be removed to improve the management and corporate governance.
A new head of internal ef ciency of the processes and reduce overall assurance costs audit was appointed at the end of 2008. without compromising audit quality.
Both rms demonstrated that they would be able to deliver the services on broadly similar Ro utine reports on whistle blowing which did not contain any economic terms.
The committee, jointly with the board, concluded on balance that T he committee reviewed an analysis and related assumptions the proposal from KPMG should be accepted and at the beginning from the chief financial of cer supporting the statement to be of September 2009,  submitted their contained in its annual report that the business is a going resignation and formally con rmed that there were no matters concern.
concerning their resignation that needed to be brought to shareholders attention.
KPMG were appointed by the board as The fees for the 2009 audit and the external audit plan for 2009. auditors to the company with effect from the date of PwCs Auditor independence is reviewed routinely.
resignation to hold of ce until the conclusion of the 2010 annual general meeting.
In 2008 the company established a risk committee, chaired by the chief financial of cer, comprising senior financial and other Other matters considered by the committee during the year are functional heads which through the chief financial of cer provides described below: support to the chief executive and to the audit committee in The effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control and support of its oversight responsibility for the management of reports over individual incidents of control weaknesses related business risk.
to individual businesses reported either through line management To avoid actual or perceived con icts of interest, the company or the internal audit process which neither individually nor has a policy concerning the provision of non-audit services by the collectively were material to the company.
The control issues companys auditors under which non-audit services provided by the at City Link reported on in 2008 were effectively dealt with external auditors are pre-approved by the audit committee within in 2008.
The committee reviewed control issues which had certain pre-fide ned parameters.
In addition, the auditors are occurred in the Spanish pest control business and the Malaysian prohibited from providing certain services set out in the policy.
business in the previous year and actions taken by management to deal with the identied weaknesses.
Previously identi ed The expenditure on audit and non-audit services in 2009 is set weaknesses in project management have received signi cant out in note 4. management attention and a new project management framework is being embedded across the group.
Nomination committee The main purpose of the nomination committee is to assist the T he committee considered the group assurance framework board by keeping its composition under review and conducting covering the financial and nonfinancial control processes.
a rigorous and transparent process when making or renewing This framework was prepared by reviewing the most signi cant appointments of directors to the board.
In the previous year, business risks and current sources and levels of assurance related the committee took on the additional responsibility of advising to those risks in order to consider whether changes should be the board over directors con icts of interest and independence.
made in the level of assurance.
The committee continued to be satis ed that a reasonable level of assurance had been provided Membership has not changed during the year and comprises: the in respect of key areas of business risk.
chairman, John McAdam, the senior independent director, Peter Long and the next two longest serving non-executive directors, T he committee considered a report setting out the findings of Duncan Tatton-Brown and Alan Giles.
The nomination committee an internal evaluation of the 2008 external audit process.
met on two occasions in 2009 to deal with changes in executive The committee reviewed the actions which the chief executive responsibilities at the level below the chief executive and to review had initiated to establish a new operating framework for the the companys con ict authorisation process.
The committee groups businesses that would create greater consistency and a reviewed and was content with its effectiveness.
more standard approach towards business processes and remove a significant amount of administration cost as well as adding to Remuneration committee the effectiveness of control processes.
The members of the remuneration committee are Peter Long chairman, Richard Burrows and Alan Giles, all of whom are V arious reports and written and oral updates on a number of independent non-executive directors.
The remuneration committee control and reporting issues as part of its oversight of the has reviewed its effectiveness during the year and concluded that internal control framework.
it has continued to operate effectively.
The directors remuneration Fi financial statements relating to the companys annual report, report is set out on pages 32 to 38. interim report and quarterly trading updates were reviewed as well as reports from the external auditors.
30 Governance Corporate governance internally by the chairman with the assistance of the company Attendance at meetings secretary, utilising a framework provided by external specialists Audit Remuneration Nomination which covers the establishment and role of the board, its Directors Board Committee Committee Committee membership, skills, experience, training, meeting arrangements, John McAdam 9 9 2 2 leadership, procedures and communications.
Alan Brown 9 9 Individual director evaluation showed that each director including Michael Murray 9 9 those seeking re-election at the annual general meeting in 2010 Andy Ransom 9 9 continued to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The nonDuncan Tatton-Brown 9 9 4 4 2 2 executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried Richard Burrows 8 9 6 6 out a performance evaluation of the chairman after taking account William Rucker 8 9 3 4 of the views of the executive directors.
The board intends to carry Peter Long 6 9 6 6 2 2 out further performance evaluations and will keep under review Peter Bamford 9 9 4 4 revisions in the UK corporate governance code when deciding the Alan Giles 9 9 6 6 2 2 method and frequency.
Dialogue with major shareholders The terms of reference of the principal board committees are available on the companys website, www.
com, The chief executive and chief financial of cer hold regular or from the company secretary.
meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders to discuss the companys strategy and financial performance.
Independent non-executive directors regularly provided with an analysis of the companys shareholder base and with commentary on market views and sentiment.
The board has appointed Peter Long to act as senior independent The chairman, the senior independent director and other nondirector whose main responsibility is to be available to shareholders executive directors make themselves available for discussions should they have concerns that they are unable to resolve through with shareholders as required by circumstances or as requested normal channels and for leading the performance review process by shareholders.
in respect of the chairman.
The board regards Peter Long, Peter Bamford, Richard Burrows, 8.
Accountability and audit Alan Giles, William Rucker and Duncan Tatton-Brown as The audit committee assists the board on matters concerning independent non-executive directors within the tests set out accountability and audit, information on which is contained within in the Combined Code.
the audit committee report above.
Going concern The role of the chairman, John McAdam, is set out in the boards At 31 December 2009, the group had net debt of 1,108 million.
governance procedures which are reviewed annually by the board Of this, 915 million had been issued under the groups debt as well as in his letter of appointment.
The chairmans priority is capital market programme and the earliest maturity of any of these the management of the board whereas the chief executives instruments is 2013.
Of the balance, 32 million is held as net cash priority is the management of the company.
The chairmans main and other borrowings in the businesses and 225 million is drawn interests outside the company are set out in his biographical under the groups bank facility, which matures in October 2012.
This details on page 23. facility provides the groups principal source of day-to-day liquidity.
The chairman received an award under the 2008 Share Incentive The groups practice is to reforecast the expected full-year outcome Plan, which was formally approved by shareholders at the time in terms of pro t and cash every month and current and prospective of his appointment.
As a consequence of this one-off award, performance are reviewed formally with each of the groups he is not regarded as independent under the provisions of the divisions monthly.
These forecasts, together with supplementary Combined Code.
short-term cash forecasts which are provided by the divisions to group treasury allow the groups cash and debt position to be 6.
The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own At 31 December 2009 and 26 March 2010 the group had undrawn performance and that of its principal committees and individual headroom in its committed bank facilities of 275 million and directors, including the chairman.
Directors completed appraisals 285 million respectively.
After reviewing group and company on matters relevant to board, committee and director performance.
cash balances, borrowing facilities and projected cash ows, the A report was presented to and reviewed by the board.
The board directors believe that the group and company have adequate concluded that the evaluation exercise had con rmed that the resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this directors had the appropriate range of skills and experience and reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing constituted an effective and uni ed board.
The review was led the accounts.
Governance 31 Corporate governance controls and risk management, and reviews the effectiveness of In reaching this conclusion, the directors have considered carefully the system at least annually.
In doing so the group has taken note the risks to the groups trading performance and cash ows as a of the guidance for directors as set out in the Turnbull Guidance.
result of the dif cult global economic environment and the The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and shortage of credit available in the bank finance market in particular.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against The directors have also had regard to the groups operating plan material misstatement or loss.
and budget for 2010 and have considered a number of risk factors.
The groups budget shows improved pro tability and strong cash The audit committee assists the board in the performance of its ows.
The group has a good level of headroom in its bank facilities responsibilities by reviewing the board procedures as they relate to in terms of both the amount of funds available to withdraw and the internal controls and they consider internal and external auditors financial covenants.
reports on internal control issues and reports on internal controls The groups bank facilities contain a single financial ratio covenant and risk management systems.
The risk identi cation and which requires EBITDA to be no less than 4x interest payable on management process has been in place during the whole of 2009 the basis of the fide nitions and subject to the adjustments set out in and up to 26 March 2010, the date of the approval of the audited the bank facility documentation.
The covenant is tested on 30 June 2009 accounts and during that time the board, with the assistance and 31 December for the previous 12 months.
At 31 December 2009 of the committee, has reviewed the process.
the covenant ratio was 7x, equivalent to 185 million of EBITDA A report on the activities of the committee in 2009 is reported in headroom.
section 3 above and further information on the risk management Full details of the groups net debt and borrowing facilities are set and internal control processes in the business can be found in the out in note 21 to the financial statements.
financial review on pages 16 to 19.
As indicated in the last annual report the company is currently 10.
Auditors and auditor independence engaged in a process of introducing a standard operating framework which will tend to mitigate risks associated with As described earlier in this report, KPMG Audit Plc replaced the geographic spread of operations and non-standard business  LLP as the companys auditors in processes.
In addition the company is introducing a standard September 2009.
In concluding that KPMG Audit Plc should be framework for the management of projects which will mitigate appointed as auditors, the board and the audit committee took risks associated with the management of change which has been into account the need to ensure that auditor independence was a particular exposure for the company in the past.
enhancements in the companys processes, which are taking place The company considers that there are suf cient controls and over the next three years, will deliver a greater understanding of processes in place to ensure that the required level of independence the required standards for operations and the related performance is maintained.
The company has a formal policy on the provision metrics which will, in turn, lead to an improved control environment.
of non-audit services provided by the companys auditors under In addition, the capability of financial management has been which any such proposed expenditure of up to 250,000 must be strengthened during the year.
approved in advance by the chief financial of cer and above that level the approval of the audit committee is required.
The In 2008 delegated authority limits in the group were revised.
committee does not consider that there is any material risk As a result the corporate centre increased its level of involvement of the companys auditors withdrawing from the market.
During 2009 the audit committee initiated a review of the sources of assurance provided A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the to the board over the adequacy of the control and other processes.
company will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held The review is on-going and is proving to be a useful additional on 14 May 2010. oversight process.
Disclosure of information to auditors Re ning the internal control framework is iterative and improvement measures are continually under review.
Insofar as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as fide ned by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 By order of the board, of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken all of the steps that he should have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as fide ned and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Internal controls The annual report provides information on and an assessment Paul Grif ths of the companys business, operations, financial position and Secretary prospects.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system 26 March 2010 of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance
