Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report This report sets out the work carried out by the Audit Committee of the Board with reference to the Guidance on Audit Committees the Smith Report attached to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Audit Committee composition The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee is chaired by John Jackson, who is a qualified accountant.
Tony Hughes is also a member of the Committee.
During 2009, the Audit Committee has not been in compliance with the best practice guidelines of the Smith Report due to the number of nonexecutive Directors on the Board of The Restaurant Group plc.
The Committee regularly invites the external auditors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director to its meetings.
The Company Secretary attends the meetings and is secretary to the Committee.
Discussions are held in private when appropriate.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference and the principal matters are to: provide additional assurance regarding the integrity, quality and reliability of financial information used by the Board and in financial statements issued to shareholders and the public: review the Companys internal procedures for control and compliance with regard to financial reporting to satisfy itself that these are adequate and effective: review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure they comply with statutory requirements and generally accepted accounting principles: receive reports from the Groups external auditors concerning external announcements, in particular the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report: develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the engagement of external auditors, review the independence of the external auditors, review the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and review remuneration paid to the external auditors: and consider any other matter that is brought to its attention by the Board or the external auditors.
The Board as a whole reviews the risks facing the Group, and the processes on mitigating those risks, on a regular and formal basis.
The Board also reviews the work carried out by the Internal Audit function.
Audit Committee frequency The Committee meets at least twice a year.
During 2009 two meetings of the Committee were held with full attendance.
Audit Committee process The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined in its terms of reference, through a series of Audit Committee meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
The Committee commissions reports from external advisers or Company management, either after consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to developing issues.
The Committee has the opportunity to meet privately with the external auditors at least twice a year and liaises with Company management in considering areas for review.
During the year, the Committee considered the following matters: interim and full year financial results: the scope and cost of the external audit: the external auditors interim and full year reports: non-audit work carried out by the external auditors in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence: the effectiveness of the external auditors and consideration of their reappointment: and the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 37 Audit Committee report continued The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by the Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
External auditors independence The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit work which is in compliance with the Combined Code.
The pre-approved services may be summarised as follows: audit related services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local statutory accounts: and certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and tax advice.
Other work to be carried out by the external auditors is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Committee has reviewed the independence and objectivity of Deloitte LLP as external auditors and recommends their re-appointment by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 May 2010.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, John Jackson 3 March 2010 38 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009
