Corporate Governance Report Compliance Chairman and Chief Executive This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Rexam has a non executive Chairman and a Chief Executive.
There Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2008 the Code by the is a clear division of responsibility between the positions, with the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
This Report, together with the Chairman responsible for the running of the Board and the Chief Business Review, the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report, Executive responsible for the executive management of the Company provides a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the and the running of the Groups businesses.
principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have Peter Ellwood, Chairman of the Company, during the year met with been applied.
The Company is committed to the highest standards senior management and visited various Rexam businesses.
He also of corporate governance and the Groups governance policies are met individually with a number of institutional shareholders to discuss monitored by the Board and kept under constant review.
the Groups performance during 2009 and the rights issue.
Throughout the period 1 January to 31 December 2009 the Graham Chipchase, Group Director Plastic Packaging, was Company has been fully compliant with the Code.
appointed Chief Executive designate with effect from 16 November Directors 2009 and succeeded Leslie Van fide Walle who retired as Chief The Board Executive Officer on 31 December 2009.
Graham Chipchase has The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership been a member of the Board since 2003, first as Finance Director and to develop and implement a coherent long term strategy for and then as Group Director Plastic Packaging.
He knows Rexam and the Group.
Its other roles are to oversee management and succession its people well through these financial and operational roles and has planning, to maintain control over the Groups assets, to develop demonstrated the leadership skills to take the Company forward to robust corporate governance and risk management practices and the next phase of its development.
Leslie Van fide Walle met with the procedures, to establish high ethical standards of behaviour and institutional shareholders on a regular basis during 2009 and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders are understood Graham Chipchase has met with institutional shareholders since his and achieved.
Carl Symon is the senior independent director and is available to talk The Board monitors the performance of management and aims to to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns or if there are any ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures adopted are not unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to his only in the long term interest of shareholders but also meet the needs attention.
of Rexams customers, suppliers, employees and the local communities in which Rexam operates.
The written job specifications for the roles of Chairman, Chief Matters referred to the Board are considered by the Board as a Executive and the senior independent director are reviewed annually whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
There are well documented procedures and controls, including a Details of the external directorships held by Peter Ellwood, Leslie Van formal schedule of matters that requires the Boards specific approval fide Walle and Carl Symon can be found on page 31.
The Board and is reviewed annually.
This provides the framework for the considers that these external directorships did not make conflicting decisions to be taken by the Board and those which can be demands on their time commitment to the Company.
Graham delegated to committees of the Board or senior management.
Chipchase does not hold any external directorships.
Schedule of matters reserved for the Board Board appointments and removals.
The appointment and removal of principal advisors and external auditors.
Changes to the Groups management and control structure.
The Groups strategy, including the acquisition and disposal of businesses.
Matters relating to the Companys share listing.
All capital expenditure projects over 10m or any capital expenditure project which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups financial criteria.
The Groups global insurance programme is reviewed annually.
Appropriate insurance cover has been obtained to protect the directors and senior management in the event of a claim being brought against any of them in their capacity as directors or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
36 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Membership of Board and main Board committees Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Finance Committee P Ellwood Chairman Chairman B Barker Resigned 7 January 2009 M Buzzacott Retired 7 May 2009 Chairman retired 7 May 2009 Retired 7 May 2009 Retired 7 May 2009 G Chipchase Appointed 1 January 2010 N Doyle Chairman J Langston Chairman from 7 May 2009 Appointed 3 July 2009 W Meusburger D Robbie J-P Rodier C Symon Chairman L Van fide Walle Retired 31 December 2009 Retired 31 December 2009 Where applicable, the date on which a member was appointed to or resigned from the Board or a committee during 2009 and up to the date of this Annual Report is shown above.
In addition to regular scheduled Board meetings, the Company During the year Peter Ellwood met twice with non executive directors operates through various Board committees.
The Board committees without management in attendance to discuss Board related issues are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters on a less formal basis.
He also held various individual meetings delegated to the committee and for which they have authority and conference calls with non executive directors.
Their discussions to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the main committees covered areas including Group performance, strategy and can be found on the Rexam website.
Membership of the Audit, succession planning.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees is restricted to the Audit Committee independent non executive directors.
The main terms of reference of this Committee are set out in the The number of Board and main Board committee meetings held section Audit Committee and Auditors on pages 41 and 42. during the year and directors attendance at each meeting that they Nomination Committee were eligible to attend are shown in the table below.
Where The main terms of reference of this Committee are to review directors were unable to attend the meetings they received a copy the structure, size and composition of the Board and make of the agenda and the papers, and had an opportunity to comment recommendations to the Board on the role and nomination of on the matters to be discussed in advance of the meetings.
directors for appointment to the Board, Board committees and the Attendance at Board and main Board committee meetings appointment of the Company Secretary.
The Committee is also responsible for assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Audit Nomination Remuneration Finance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman, senior independent director and non executive directors, Meetings held in 2009 11 4 5 10 3 and assisting the Chairman with the annual performance evaluation Meetings attended process to assess the overall and individual performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board committees.
P Ellwood 11 5 M Buzzacott i 4 1 4 1 Remuneration Committee G Chipchase ii 11 The main terms of reference of this Committee are set out in the N Doyle 10 3 4 3 Remuneration Report on page 44.
J Langston iii 10 4 3 3 Finance Committee W Meusburger 11 5 10 The main terms of reference of this Committee are to oversee and D Robbie 11 3 report to the Board on financial risk management strategy, policy J-P Rodier 11 5 10 and treasury transactional matters.
Additionally, the Committee assists C Symon 11 4 5 10 the Board in reviewing and approving major financial transactions, L Van fide Walle 10 3 including currency exposures and interest rate management.
Together with the directors named above Jon Drown, Director Group Treasury, i Michael Buzzacott retired from the Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Finance is a member of this Committee.
The Committee holds at least two Committees on 7 May 2009. scheduled formal meetings each year with full attendance to discuss ii Graham Chipchase was appointed to the Finance Committee on 1 January 2010. matters of policy.
Additional meetings are held during the year as iii John Langston was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 3 July 2009. necessary for which the quorum is three members, one of whom must iv Bill Barker resigned from the Board on 7 January 2009 and did not attend any meetings be either the Finance Director or the Director Group Treasury.
Rexam Annual Report 2009 37 Corporate Governance Report The Board also operates through the Chief Executives, the Retirement Appointments to the Board Benefits and the Share Options committees.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Nomination Committee.
All of the current The Chief Executives Committee, whose members are the Chief members of this Committee are independent non executive directors.
Executive and any two other directors, has responsibility to approve The Committee regularly reviews and considers the ongoing certain matters above established financial limits other than those membership of the Board, reviews job descriptions and objective specifically reserved for the Board.
criteria for Board and senior executive appointments and oversees The main terms of reference of the Retirement Benefits Committee are, talent management and succession planning.
on behalf of the Board, to review and make recommendations to the All new Board appointment projects are conducted through a formal, Board on the Groups retirement benefit arrangements including rigorous and transparent procedure between the Nomination consulting with the Company and the pension plan trustees on the Committee and the Board.
The Committee identifies through the control and funding of such arrangements.
It considers and reviews management review process any internal people whose skills, external advice received in respect of investment strategy, global experience and contribution to the Group would add value to the asset allocation and funding levels.
The members of this Committee Board.
The Committee also works alongside recruitment consultants include David Tucker, an independent external appointment who is to evaluate and consider prospective external candidates and review the Committee Chairman, Jon Atchue, the current Group Director internal candidates suggested by the Committee.
Human Resources, appointed to the Committee on 14 January 2010, Frank Brown, Director of US Administration and David Robbie.
Bill Following an evaluation of candidates, the Committee meets with Barker, the former Group Director Beverage Cans and Roger Bellis, prospective candidates who are then considered and, if appropriate, the former Group Director Human Resources were members of the recommendations are made to the Board for approval.
Committee until their resignations on 7 January 2009 and The process leading to the appointment of Graham Chipchase 31 December 2009 respectively.
The Committee met three times as Chief Executive was conducted in this way.
The Committee in 2009 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of considered both internal and external candidates.
The Committee each meeting were present with the exception of Frank Brown who identified Graham Chipchases operational and financial experience was unable to attend the meeting in June and Roger Bellis who was gained in his previous appointments which, together with his proven unable to attend the meeting in December.
leadership skills, satisfied the Committee and the Board that he was The main terms of reference of the Share Options Committee are the right person to succeed Leslie Van fide Walle and take the to grant options to employees over ordinary shares in the Company Company forward as Chief Executive.
under the savings related share option schemes and to allot shares Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of under the savings related share option schemes and the long term appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
The members of this Committee include any On appointment, an undertaking is requested confirming that the director, David Gibson, Company Secretary and Jennifer Smith, non executive director has sufficient time to fulfil his or her role on the Deputy Company Secretary.
A Chairman is elected at each meeting Board.
Any non executive director who has served on the Board for and the quorum is two members, one of whom must be a director.
a period in excess of nine years will be subject to annual re-election The Committee met as necessary in 2009. at the AGM.
The non executive directors letters of appointment are Board balance and independence available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at Throughout 2009 and up to the date of this Annual Report the the AGM.
Company has had a majority of independent non executive directors Information and professional development on the Board.
For each scheduled Board meeting the Chairman and the Company Secretary ensure that, prior to the meeting, the directors receive a Board balance 31.12.09 17.02.10 copy of the agenda for the meeting, Group and business financial Chairman and non executive directors 6 6 and operating information so that they are properly informed of the Executive directors 3 2 Groups current performance, the Companys share price and trading data for the prior month, and details of any other matter which is to Rexam has a Board of people of different nationalities with be referred to the Board for consideration.
The directors also have international business backgrounds representing a range of diverse access to the Company Secretary for any further information they skills and experience to enable them to effectively govern a global require.
In the months where there is no scheduled Board meeting, business.
The Board works as a team but independence of thought the directors receive the prior month and cumulative Group and and approach is encouraged.
Influence is balanced within the Board business financial and operating information.
If there is any urgent by virtue of Peter Ellwood who is a non executive Chairman, together business to be considered in these months and the subject of the with a non executive senior independent director and a further four business can be communicated by a written paper, the Board may non executive directors, all of whom the Board considers to be be asked to give their approval using the written resolution procedure independent.
Their professional skills and wide international business as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association Articles.
experience are invaluable in constructively challenging and developing the Groups strategy and direction.
The Board is aware All newly appointed directors participate in an internal induction of the other commitments of the non executive directors and considers programme that introduces the director to the Group and includes that these commitments do not conflict with their duties as directors visiting Group businesses.
Newly appointed directors, in particular of the Company.
A biography of each member of the Board and those who have not previously held a directorship in a UK listed details of their other directorships are given on page 31.
The Board company, are given training facilitated by an external consultant evaluates the membership of its individual Board committees on an which focuses on their role on the Board.
The Company Secretary annual basis and aims to ensure that its principal committees have gives guidance on Board procedures and corporate governance.
different non executive directors as their chairman.
38 Rexam Annual Report 2009 All directors receive ongoing training and members of the committees Process Objective receive specific updates in matters that are relevant to their role.
Strategic planning To develop the strategic review to facilitate more detail and discussion on scenario The Chairman arranges for the directors to visit at least one of the planning, markets and technology: and Groups business locations each year to ensure that their knowledge, regular reporting to the Board on the progress skills and familiarity with the Groups businesses are updated and of strategic issues and actions.
During 2009, the Board visited the newly commissioned Risk management To enhance understanding and regular Board beverage can plant in Fredericia, Denmark, and visited a customer debate of risk mitigation measures and any filling plant, also in Denmark.
Additionally, members of the senior changes in the Groups key risk profile.
management team with responsibility for the Groups businesses make periodic presentations at Board meetings about their Customers To enhance the Boards understanding and businesses, performance, suppliers, customers, markets and strategy.
involvement with major customer contracts Periodic presentations are also made at Board meetings by members and strategies.
of the senior management team who have corporate or service Talent management To extend the Boards exposure to and centre functional responsibilities.
and succession familiarity with the Groups talent identification planning and management, and succession planning.
The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is responsible for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
This A full performance evaluation of the Board and its committees will includes taking minutes of the Board meetings and the recording continue to be conducted annually.
of any concerns relating to the running of the Company or proposed Election and re-election of directors actions arising therefrom that are expressed by a director in a Board Article 56 of the current Articles states, in accordance with the Code, meeting.
The Company Secretary is also secretary to the Audit, that any director appointed to the Board since the date of the last Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Under the direction AGM should be proposed for election at the first AGM after their of the Chairman, he is responsible for the communication of relevant appointment.
Thereafter a director must be proposed for re-election information between the Board and the senior management team.
at the third AGM following the AGM at which the director was last The Company Secretary is available to give ongoing advice to all elected or re-elected.
Under the Articles, Wolfgang Meusburger, directors on Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory Jean-Pierre Rodier and Carl Symon would stand for re-election compliance.
Should a director reasonably request independent at the AGM 2010. professional advice to carry out his or her duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
However, in December 2008, the ABI issued guidance to the effect Performance evaluation 2009 that, where a company issues more that one third of its issued share All directors, including the Chairman, receive a formal performance capital in connection with a rights issue its members may expect that evaluation to which all other members of the Board have an all directors of the company wishing to remain in office will stand for opportunity to contribute.
The evaluations are led as indicated below.
re-election at the next annual general meeting following the decision to make the issue.
Therefore, in accordance with best practice Board member 2009 evaluation led by following the rights issue in July 2009, all the current directors Chairman Senior independent director will stand for re-election at the AGM 2010.
Senior independent director and The Board will only recommend to shareholders that executive other non executive directors Chairman and non executive directors be proposed for election or re-election Chief Executive Chairman at an AGM, in accordance with the Articles, after evaluating the Executive directors Chief Executive performance of the individual director.
The following directors are being recommended by the Board and will be proposed for The Chairman met a number of times with the non executive directors re-election at the AGM 2010: during 2009 to discuss the evaluation of the Board and individual directors performance and succession plans.
The Chairman and Name Director Chief Executive absent themselves when their own performance is Peter Ellwood Chairman being assessed.
Discussions are led by the Chairman except in Graham Chipchase Chief Executive relation to his own performance and succession when the senior David Robbie Finance independent director takes the chair and feedback is provided.
Carl Symon Senior independent In addition to the personal performance evaluations, an evaluation Noreen Doyle Non executive of the effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees was John Langston Non executive undertaken.
The directors were asked to complete questionnaires Wolfgang Meusburger Non executive and provide comments on Board and committee procedures and Jean-Pierre Rodier Non executive effectiveness.
The results of the evaluations were reviewed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary prior The Chairman and all non executive directors are being recommended to being presented to the Board.
The directors shared the view for re-election as they continue to be effective and demonstrate their that the Board and its committees continue to operate effectively commitment to the Board.
and that, whilst there have been challenges in 2009, the Board and its committees have improved their effectiveness.
During 2010, the Board intends that the processes concerning the following areas will be further developed and improved.
Rexam Annual Report 2009 39 Corporate Governance Report Graham Chipchase is being recommended for re-election as the aims to identify, assess, prioritise and, where possible, mitigate the Board believes his leadership and insight of the Rexam Group and its Groups risks.
Although no system of internal control can provide markets will help grow Rexam organically and will create shareholder absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups value.
David Robbie is being recommended for re-election as the systems are designed to provide the Board with reasonable Board believes his strong financial experience and his financial and assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are properly strategic skills are important to the Board as it maintains tight financial authorised and recorded and that material errors and irregularities controls to enable the Group to participate in the economic upturn are either prevented or detected within a timely period.
A biography of each member of the Board can be During 2009, the Group authority levels and related financial limits, found on page 31. which include information on those matters that are specifically Remuneration reserved for the Boards consideration, were reviewed and updated Remuneration policy for directors and employees as appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making The Board, after taking account of the detailed work of the Audit recommendations to the Board on the Groups remuneration policy Committee, confirms that it carried out a review of the effectiveness and setting the remuneration levels and specific packages of the system of internal control which operated within the Group appropriate for the Chairman, each executive director and Band 1 during 2009 in accordance with the requirements of the Code and executive taking into account the Groups annual salary negotiations.
the revised guidance issued in October 2005 Internal Control: The Remuneration Report is on pages 44 to 56 of the Annual Report Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
2009 and documents the policy of the Remuneration Committee and This review covers all controls, namely financial, operational, gives full details of directors remuneration.
In order to discharge its Accountability and audit responsibilities in this regard the Board has established and regularly Financial reporting reviews the procedures necessary to implement the internal control The Annual Report and the Half Year Report seek to provide a clear requirements of the Code.
The Committee also considered the assessment of the performance and prospects of the Group.
The revised Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the FRC in October Company prepares an Annual Report, in which, following the annual 2008.
Where there are any changes in governance regulations and audit, the external auditors include an independent report to the new guidance is issued, the Committee will review it and take into members.
The Half Year Report includes a review report to the account any recommendations made.
No significant failings or Company prepared by the external auditors.
weaknesses were identified in the review for the period since 1 January 2009.
The Board is satisfied that, where areas for The Annual Report also contains a Business Review which summarises improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the Groups business strategy, strategic risks and financial and non the necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
Board will continue to carry out such reviews on an annual basis.
Internal control and risk management The framework which the Board has established with a view The Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for ensuring to providing effective internal control for both the Group and its the establishment and maintenance of an effective system of internal associates and joint ventures is supported by the key areas set out control.
Whilst all elements of risk cannot be eliminated, the system in the table below.
Key areas of the internal control framework Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board.
An annual budget and strategic review are prepared for each business and are consolidated for review by the Board before being formally adopted.
During the year, monthly management accounts, including cash flow and capital expenditure reporting, are prepared with a comparison against budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in the light of this comparison and are also reviewed by the Board.
Responsibility There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and levels of authority in operation throughout the Group, with specific matters reserved to the Board.
Businesses are decentralised with operating autonomy and financial responsibility delegated to corporate and local management to the extent that they have approval to operate within defined levels of authority and risk.
Procedures and controls There are formal written Group financial procedures and controls in operation, including specific procedures for treasury matters and the approval of significant contracts.
Corporate and local management are required to complete bi-annual representation letters formally confirming that their businesses comply with the Groups financial reporting policies and other Group policies and procedures.
Internal audit The internal audit function monitors the accounting and financial risks faced throughout the Group and the control systems in operation to manage these risks.
Any significant internal audit findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
Physical risk management The internal physical risk management function, together with operational management, are responsible for monitoring the processes which identify, evaluate and manage any significant health, safety, environmental and loss prevention risks.
All businesses have adopted externally verified auditing systems and other processes to identify, measure, reduce and control these physical risks.
The results of these audits are reported upon and reviewed by local and senior management in order to ensure that appropriate action plans are developed and implemented in a timely manner.
Any significant findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
40 Rexam Annual Report 2009 There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing, Audit Committee and Auditors monitoring and reporting the risks faced by the Group.
This formal The objectives of the Committee are to assist the Board in meeting process, managed through Audit and Risk Committee ARC its responsibilities in ensuring an effective system of internal control, meetings, is the responsibility of all of the Groups businesses and compliance and risk management, and accurate external financial is overseen by the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit.
reporting, thereby fulfilling the Boards obligations under law and Separate ARC meetings are held annually with senior management the Code.
The Committee also assists the Board in managing the of each division as well as key group functions including Treasury, relationship with the Companys external auditors to review and Tax, Finance, IT, Legal, Human Resources, Retirement Benefits, Supply monitor their independence, and in particular the provision of Chain and Physical Risk Management to review the results of their non audit services to the Group.
These meetings are attended by the Finance The Committee members comprise independent non executive Director and usually by the Chief Executive.
They evaluate and directors and the Committee meets at least four times a year.
John develop the process for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Langston, who was appointed Audit Committee Chairman from systems of internal control, including all aspects concerning financial, 7 May 2009, replacing Michael Buzzacott who retired from the environmental, social and governance related matters.
The ARC Board and the Committee, is the current Finance Director of Smiths meetings also include a detailed review of the results of internal Group plc and a qualified chartered accountant.
He is well placed audit activity covering the financial controls and risks as well as the to provide the Committee with the relevant financial experience to physical risks health, safety, environment and loss prevention of all enable it to carry out its responsibilities.
In addition to the ARC meetings, risks in relation to each division and business are reviewed at quarterly Noreen Doyle, who chairs the Finance Committee, is also a member business review meetings with senior management, thus ensuring of the Audit Committee and has extensive financial experience that risk management is a continuing and key element of the internal gained from her role as First Vice President of the European Bank for control process.
Reconstruction & Development before her retirement in 2005 and her current non executive directorship of Credit Suisse Group.
Risk register forms are used to provide detailed reporting of the methodology used to quantify the risks identified.
Trend analysis and Carl Symon, who is chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is also key performance indicators are used to help measure and assess the a member of the Audit Committee and has wide international benefits of mitigation steps taken to minimise and manage the risks.
experience gained from a 32 year international career with IBM The process continued to be refined in 2009 and the risk profile of Corporation and his current non executive directorships of BT Group the Group was reviewed in detail by senior management to assign plc and BAE Systems plc, as well as his previous appointments which specific responsibility for managing each of the identified risks.
The include HMV Group plc and Rolls-Royce Group plc.
process also aims to ensure that risks are not just the product of a Should it be requested, the Committee has access to independent bottom up approach but are also examined from a top down expert advice at the Companys expense.
perspective and closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed The results of the ARC process are reported to the Committee by the annually, set out more fully the responsibilities of the Committee Finance Director, Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit and can be found on the Rexam website.
The performance and and provide an opportunity for the Committee to discuss and analyse effectiveness of the Committee are reviewed as part of the main the risks reported.
In addition to reviewing the risks as presented by performance appraisal of the Board and all its Committees.
management, the Committee also requests the sectors or functional managers to present their risk profile, enabling the Committee to The Committee approves the appointment of the Head of Internal assess at first hand whether the risks identified are being managed Audit.
The annual programme of internal audit assignments is effectively and to challenge management on the mitigation measures reviewed and approved by the Committee which also ensures that in place.
During 2009 presentations were made relating to the the involvement of the internal and external auditors is co-ordinated.
Beverage Can Europe & Asia and Beverage Can North America In 2009, the internal audit function and its performance, effectiveness businesses.
and relationship with the Companys external auditors was assessed The process of internal risk monitoring is regularly reviewed by the by the Audit Committee and reported to the Board.
This assessment Board, which has ultimate responsibility for the identification and included completion of a survey of internal audits performance by management of risk, to ensure its continuing effectiveness.
During both the Audit Committee and the businesses.
The Head of Internal 2009, the Finance Director presented details of the Group risks and Audit will continue to review the role and focus of the internal audit ARC process to the Board.
function with the Audit Committee Chairman during 2010, looking for areas for further improvement and at the balance of internal In 2009, Rexam reviewed best practice and peer risk management audits work in providing assurance to the Committee and Group systems and updated its risk policy and framework document management and overall support for the Groups businesses.
incorporating elements of ISO31000, a standard on implementation of risk management.
This revised methodology will be rolled out The Companys external auditors attend all Audit Committee through the ARC process.
The Chairman of the Board is invited to attend all Audit Committee meetings and, at the request of the Committee Chairman, Details of the key risk factors to which the Group is exposed are the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Internal Audit included in the Business Review which can be found on attend each meeting.
The Committee Chairman also has separate pages 22 and 23. meetings with the Companys external auditors to discuss matters of interest and meets with the Head of Internal Audit without any other member of management being present.
Rexam Annual Report 2009 41 Corporate Governance Report The first meeting within the Group annual audit cycle is to consider Directors situational conflicts of interest the nature and scope of the audit and to consider any additional In line with the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance with special reviews that may be necessary.
Further meetings are held the Companys Articles, the Board has a formal system in place for prior to the approval of the half year results and the full year results to directors to review regularly their interests and report any conflicts of consider, as relevant, the audit conclusions, the results of any special interest to the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Any situations reviews undertaken, the business risks facing the Group and the where the director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly reports from the ARC meetings.
conflict, with the interests of the Company situational conflicts are considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest The Committee shares responsibility with the Board for reviewing in in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a detail the Annual Report and Half Year Report and all other published situational conflict, the non conflicted directors must act in the way financial information for statutory and regulatory compliance with a they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the view to their recommendation and submission to the Board.
The success of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions Committee reports its findings on the audit process and on the wider when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is aspects of internal control to the Board.
Any situational conflicts considered by the Board and Prior to the Boards approval, the Committee reviewed the prospectus any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in for the rights issue which the Company undertook during the year.
a register of directors conflicts which is reviewed annually by the The prospectus contained an analysis of the risk factors facing the Board.
No situational conflicts were reported to the Board during Group and confirmation of adequacy of working capital.
2009 and up to the date of this Report.
The Committee has primary responsibility for and advises the Board Shareholder relations on the appointment, re-appointment and the remuneration of the Dialogue with institutional and private shareholders Companys external auditors.
 LLP PwC The Board believes that it is a priority to communicate with have been the Companys external auditors since 2003 with the shareholders and uses various methods to reach as many lead audit partner changing by rotation in 2008.
There are programmes for the Chief the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys external Executive, Finance Director and the Head of Investor Relations to auditors and has recommended to the Board that a resolution to meet with the Companys major investors in the UK, US and Europe.
re-appoint PwC be proposed at the AGM 2010.
A review of PwCs Presentations are made on the operating and financial performance effectiveness will be undertaken in 2010 following completion of the of the Group, including corporate governance related matters, and 2009 year end audit.
The Committee will continue to keep under the Groups longer term strategy.
Roadshows are held in the UK, US review the independence and objectivity of the Companys external and Europe following the announcement of the full and half year auditors.
If it is not possible to meet face to face, meetings are held by live webcast or telephone conference.
The presentations made The Group policy on the provision of non audit services by PwC to representatives of the investment community following the determines the procedures for the pre-approval of such services and announcement of the full and half year results are available on the the fees paid for those services.
The scope and extent of non audit Companys website, as is a live webcast of the related results work undertaken by PwC is monitored by and, above certain presentation.
thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair PwCs independence The Company also hosts plant visits and annual seminars for investors or objectivity.
Non audit fees in 2009 relate mainly to work by PwC and representatives of the investment community.
The seminars are in connection with the rights issue, a review of certain tax and webcast live and a replay, together with presentation slides, is treasury risks in Russia, and global advisory tax services.
audit related instructions were approved by the Audit Committee Institutional shareholders can request an opportunity to meet with under the Groups non audit services approval policy.
Other audit any of the executive and non executive directors.
The non executive firms were engaged to provide expatriate and specialist tax advisory directors are given regular updates as to the views of institutional services as well as to advise on acquisition and disposal transactions.
A summary report on investor responses is prepared The Companys external auditors are prohibited from providing for the Board, normally by the Companys corporate brokers, after services to the Company that would be considered to jeopardise the investor meetings held following the announcement of the full and their independence, such as financial systems design and half year results.
The non executive directors meet with shareholders implementation, actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing services at the AGM and may attend analyst presentations made by the Chief and investment services.
The policy on non audit services will be Executive and Finance Director following the full and half year results reviewed during 2010 following the FRC review of the provision announcements.
The Board fully supports the principle of the Code of non audit services currently being undertaken.
which seeks to encourage more active interest and contribution from institutional shareholders.
42 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Communication with private shareholders is largely through the Whistle blowing policy Annual Report and the AGM which is held at a central London Rexam promotes an open culture whereby employees have an location.
The notice of the AGM is posted to shareholders with, opportunity to discuss matters that are of concern with their local if requested, the Annual Report and any related papers at least management.
Rexam also recognises that there will be times when 20 working days before the date of the AGM to ensure that an employee might not be comfortable with raising concerns directly shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items of with local management and in such cases, communication with business to be voted upon.
The majority of shareholders have elected sector and Group management is encouraged.
to access the Annual Report and other shareholder documents online Rexam operates a whistle blowing policy which is supported by an via the Rexam website rather than receiving a copy by post.
external confidential telephone helpline, available to all employees A presentation is made at the AGM to facilitate awareness of the for the submission of any concerns, including those of a financial Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask nature.
The telephone helpline, known as Raise Your Concern, has questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board committee been beneficial as an independent point of contact for employees during the AGM and meet all the directors informally after the AGM.
where, if requested, the anonymity of the employee is maintained.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the During 2009 there were 33 concerns 2008: 64 logged and for, against and vote withheld proxy votes cast in respect of each investigated, raising matters, in the majority of cases, related to local resolution proposed at the AGM are counted and announced after business human resource HR issues and practices concerning the the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
A summary Groups code of conduct.
of the number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution is All concerns reported are investigated at the earliest opportunity available to shareholders after the AGM has been held and can by the Head of Internal Audit, in conjunction with the Company be viewed on the Rexam website.
Following the AGM 2009, Secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the respective a summary of the questions and answers raised at the meeting was business.
The majority of all such calls received, due to their nature, posted on the Companys website.
An announcement confirming are normally handled by sector HR management to investigate and whether each resolution was passed at the AGM is made through resolve and the actions taken are reported to Group management.
The Head of Internal Audit provides an update on all calls received, Rexams ADR investors receive details of the AGM and are entitled and the action taken to resolve them, to the Audit Committee on a to instruct the depositary, The Bank of New York Mellon, to vote on quarterly basis.
Any significant concerns are reported directly to the the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
ADR investors can find Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as to senior management.
relevant information on The Bank of New York Mellons website, The Committee evaluates and reviews the whistle blowing policy and www.
com, the Raise Your Concern process annually.
the electronic trading market used for the ADR programme.
Financial and other information is available online in the Investors section of the Rexam website at www.
Shareholders can ask questions of the Company at any time by contacting the Company Secretarys department whose contact details are listed on the Rexam website and in the Shareholder information section of the Annual Report 2009.
Corporate responsibility Information on the Groups initiatives and commitment to CR can be found in the Corporate responsibility section of the Business Review and online in the CR section of the Rexam website.
Code of employee and business conduct A worldwide code of conduct, which applies to all the Companys employees, has been agreed with the Board and provides a clear statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted by Rexams activities.
The code of conduct continues to be communicated through the new employee induction process, as part of the team briefings in the Groups businesses, and on the Groups intranet and website.
The Board is kept informed regarding the maintenance of the code of conduct.
