corporate governance 4UBUFNFOU PG DPNQMJBODF %JSFDUPST SFNVOFSBUJPO The 2008 Combined Code of Corporate Governance The principles and details of directors remuneration and Combined Code sets out the principles and provisions contractual arrangements are contained in the Remuneration relating to good governance of UK listed companies.
In this Report on pages 33 to 44. section we set out how we have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during #PBSE BOE DPNNJUUFF NFNCFSTIJQ BOE BUUFOEBODF 2009 and explain the reason for one area of non-compliance.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Articles of Association require all directors to seek re-election every 5IF #PBSE three years.
In addition all directors are subject to election by At the date of this report, the Board comprises eight directors shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
including the Chairman Scott Forbes, two executive directors As previously explained in the Directors Report, Ed Williams, Ed Williams, Managing Director and Nick McKittrick, Chief Nick McKittrick and Stephen Shipperley are required to seek Operating officer and Finance Director and five non-executive re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Ashley Martin, directors Jonathan Agnew, who is the Senior Independent who having been appointed since the last Annual General Director, Ashley Martin, Judy Vezmar, Colin Kemp and Meeting, will retire from the position as non-executive director Stephen Shipperley.
and offer himself for election.
Stephen Shipperley is Group Executive Chairman of The membership of the Committees of the Board and Connells Limited and in strict application of the criteria of the attendance at meetings for the year under review are set out Combined Code is not considered to be independent.
Colin in the table below: Remuneration AuditNomination Kemp has worked for HBOS companies for over 30 years Board Committee Committee Committee and held the position as Managing Director of Halifax Estate Agencies Limited from January 2005 to December 2007.
Total meetings 7 4 4 2 1 The Board considers that both Stephen Shipperley and Scott Forbes 7 4 N A 2 Colin Kemp are independent in character and in particular Jonathan Agnew 7 4 4 2 both continue to challenge rigorously the executive directors Colin Kemp 6 N A N A N A and the Board as a whole.
Whilst the composition of the 2 2 2 Ashley Martin 4 2 3 N A Board for the period under review was not in strict Nick McKittrick 7 N A N A N A compliance with supporting principle A3.2 of the Combined Stephen Shipperley 6 N A N A N A Code in that at least half of the directors excluding the Judy Vezmar 7 3 4 2 Chairman are not considered independent non-executive Ed Williams 7 N A N A N A directors, the directors believe that the Board currently operates effectively and that all the non-executive directors 1 The Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the are fully independent of management and that Jonathan Chairman of the Board attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
Agnew, Ashley Martin and Judy Vezmar are free from any 2 Ashley Martin has attended all Board, Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings since his appointment to the Board on business or other relationship that could materially interfere 11 June 2009. with the exercise of their independent judgment and advice to the Board.
In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts Neither the Chairman nor any of the executive directors meetings with the non-executive directors without the hold any other non-executive directorships or commitments executive directors being present when required.
Jonathan disclosable under the Combined Code.
Agnew, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting of Biographical details of the directors appear on the Board at which the performance of the Chairman was also pages 16 and 17. reviewed without the presence of the Chairman.
26 rightmove plc annual report 2009 0QFSBUJPO PG UIF #PBSE $IBJSNBO BOE.
BOBHJOH %JSFDUPS The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall There are clear written guidelines to support the division of direction and control of the Group.
Its key task is to approve responsibilities at the head of the Company with the roles of strategy, ensuring the successful implementation of projects the Chairman and Managing Director separately held.
The and proposals and monitoring the operating performance of Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board, the Group in pursuit of its objectives in the interest of for communication with shareholders and for ensuring that maximising long-term shareholder value.
The Board has each director uses their skills and experience to the benefit of adopted a formal schedule of matters requiring specic the Boards decision making.
With the assistance of the approval.
These include, amongst other things, the approval Company Secretary, the Chairman monitors the information of the annual business plan, capital structure, dividend policy, provided to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of timely and clear.
ofcers of the Company, approval of the Half Year and Full The Managing Director has day-to-day executive Year results, shareholder communication and responsibility responsibility for the running of the Group, leading the for corporate governance and review of the Groups risks executive and operational teams in developing strategies and and system of internal controls.
delivering results against dened targets to enable the Group The Board receives meeting papers one week prior to to meet its objectives.
the meeting to allow sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
If any director #PBSE USBJOJOH has a concern about any aspect of the business conducted at The breadth of management, financial and listed company any Board meeting, the Company Secretary shall discuss this experience of the non-executive directors is described in the with the director concerned and record their concern or biographical details on pages 16 and 17, and demonstrates comments in the Board minutes.
The Board also receives a range of business expertise that provides the right mix of monthly management and financial reports on the operational skills and experience given the size of the Company.
There and financial performance of the business setting out actual are procedures in place for individual Board members to and forecast financial performance against approved budgets receive induction and training as appropriate and to seek the in addition to other key performance indicators.
The Board advice and services of independent professional advisers, at also receives copies of broker reports and press releases the Companys expense, where specic expertise or training relating to the Group.
At least once a year the Managing is required in the course of their duties.
Director and the senior management team present a strategic The directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity review and an annual plan to the Board for review and provision between the Company and its directors and ofcers approval.
as provided by the Articles of Association of the Company, The Board normally schedules eight meetings each year which was in force at the date of this report.
The Group has although meetings can be scheduled at short notice at the also arranged directors and ofcers insurance cover in request of any director or if required.
In 2009 seven meetings respect of legal action against the directors.
In addition to formal Board meetings, there is The Group has set out written policies in compliance with regular informal dialogue between all directors.
a code of securities dealings in relation to the shares and equivalent to the Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
The code applies to all directors, other persons discharging managerial responsibility and other relevant employees.
27 rightmove plc annual report 2009 corporate governance continued #PBSE FWBMVBUJPO The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of The Board conducted a Board evaluation exercise in quarter those with an interest in the Company through reports from four of 2009 which was led by the Chairman, assisted by the the Managing Director and Chief Operating officer and Company Secretary.
All directors completed a comprehensive Finance Director as well as reports from the Companys joint questionnaire inviting feedback on the performance and brokers, UBS and Numis.
All directors receive notication operation of the Board.
The results were discussed at a of any changes in the status of substantial shareholders and Board meeting in December 2009, with all scores exceeding at each Board meeting an update is given by the executive performance recorded in 2007 and 2008.
Accordingly the directors on the movements in major shareholdings and Board agreed that it was operating effectively and no actions on the views and opinions of those with an interest in were required for the forthcoming year.
In addition each the Company.
director completed an individual questionnaire on the performance of each of their Board colleagues and feedback $POJDUT PG JOUFSFTU was provided at one-to-one meetings conducted by the In cases of doubt, the Chairman of the Board is responsible for determining whether a conict of interest exists.
At a meeting chaired by Jonathan Agnew, Senior Independent Director, the Board provided input into and reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
FFUJOH All shareholders are invited to participate in the Companys 3FMBUJPOT XJUI TIBSFIPMEFST Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2010 where all directors will The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance be available to answer questions and will also be available for and activities of the Company and the Chairman ensures that discussions with shareholders prior to and after the meeting.
effective communication with shareholders takes place.
The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the Company Accounts and related papers to be available on the Companys has conducted regular dialogue with shareholders through corporate website at www.
rsp or ongoing meetings with institutional investors and research posted to shareholders where requested so as to allow at rms to discuss strategy, operating performance and financial least 20 working days for consideration before the Annual performance.
Contact in the UK is principally with the General Meeting.
Managing Director and Chief Operating officer and Finance The Company also complies with the Combined Code with Director.
The Chairman also participates in the USA bi-annual the separation of all resolutions put to the vote of shareholders.
In 2009, Jonathan Agnew, the Senior The Company proactively encourages shareholders to vote at Independent Director consulted major shareholders on the general meetings by providing electronic voting for remuneration policy for the executive directors and is also shareholders who hold their shares through the Crest system available to shareholders if they wish to supplement and provides personalised proxy cards to ensure that all votes communication or if contact through the normal channels is are clearly identied.
The Company presently takes votes at inappropriate.
general meetings on a show of hands on the grounds of Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups practicality due to the limited number of shareholders in activities through the Full Year and Half Year Reports and the attendance.
Votes are taken by a poll at any shareholder investor relations section of its website, which provides details meeting where legally required.
All proxy votes are counted of all the directors, latest news, including financial results, and the level of proxy votes including abstentions lodged for investor presentations and Stock Exchange announcements.
each resolution are reported after each resolution and published on the Companys website.
28 rightmove plc annual report 2009 #PBSE DPNNJUUFFT A detailed report on the Companys remuneration policy and The Board has established three principal committees, the the work of the Remuneration Committee is available in the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 44.
Nomination Committee, each of which operates within written terms of reference approved by the Board.
No person other Nomination committee than a Committee member is entitled to attend the meetings The Nomination Committee consists of Scott Forbes who of these Committees, except by invitation of the Chairman of is also Chairman of the Board, Jonathan Agnew and Judy that Committee.
Vezmar as independent non-executive directors.
The quorum for meetings of the Nomination Committee is two members.
Remuneration committee The Chairman of the Company may not chair the Nomination The Remuneration Committee consists of the three Committee in connection with any discussion about the independent non-executive directors, Jonathan Agnew who is appointment of his successor to the chairmanship of the Chairman, Judy Vezmar and Ashley Martin.
In these circumstances, the Senior Independent Director will take the chair.
Appointments are for a period Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the of up to three years, extendable by no more than two Chairman of the Board attend the Remuneration Committee additional three year periods, so long as members continue meetings.
The quorum for meetings of the Remuneration Committee is two members.
The Remuneration Committee to be independent.
will meet at such times as may be necessary but will normally The Nomination Committee meets at such times as meet at least twice a year.
may be necessary and normally meets at least twice a year.
The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider and that the Companys executive directors and senior executives make recommendations to the Board about the composition are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual of the Board, including proposed appointees, and whether contributions to the Companys overall performance having to ll any vacancies that arise or to change the number of due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the Board members.
financial and commercial health of the Group.
The Nomination Committees terms of The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website, reference are available on the Companys website, www.
rsp or by request from the Company Secretary.
During the year the Nomination Committee appointed The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Korn Ferry to assist with the search for a new non-executive Committee.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee director and recommended the appointment of Ashley Martin reports to the Board on the Remuneration Committees behalf to the Board as non-executive director and Audit Committee after each meeting.
In addition, the Nomination Committee reviewed During 2008 the Committee appointed Hewitt New Bridge the organisation structure, approved the plans for the Street HNBS, remuneration consultants, to assist with a succession of the executive directors and the senior review of the remuneration policy and to set the remuneration management team, agreed the process for the Boards annual for the executive directors and senior management for 2009. evaluation and conducted an annual review of its terms of During 2009, the Committee implemented the new reference.
remuneration policy and sought HNBSs input in terms of the general remuneration environment and changes in market sentiment and practice.
"29 rightmove plc annual report 2009 corporate governance continued ""VEJU DPNNJUUFF organisational structure, the open and accountable culture The Audit Committee consists of the three independent with clear authority limits, the straightforward financial model non-executive directors, Ashley Martin who is Chairman, and systems and the fact that the management team and Judy Vezmar and Jonathan Agnew."
Ashley Martin is the Board conduct regular financial reviews, the Committee Finance Director of Rok plc and was previously Group Finance recommended to the Board that an internal audit function Director of the media services group, Tempus Group plc and was not currently appropriate for the business.
This decision having relevant financial skills and experience, was appointed is kept under regular review.
to the role of Audit Committee Chairman on his appointment The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to to the Board in June 2009. safeguard the audit objectivity and independence as well as The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two the needs of the business and agreed that it was practical in members.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period many cases for the auditors to be assigned to other nonof up to three years, extendable by no more than two audit project work due to their knowledge and expertise of additional three year periods, so long as members continue the business.
This would usually relate to corporate transaction advice and tax compliance.
The Committee to be independent.
agreed a policy that management be given authority to incur The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and non-audit fees of up to 50% of the annual agreed audit and more often if necessary.
Two of its meetings are prior to the announcement of the Half Year and Full Year results of the tax fee in any financial year without the prior approval of the Group, when the external auditor is in attendance.
In 2009 the non-audit fees were 2,000 in Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
relation to other advisory services and are fully disclosed in The Chief Operating officer and Finance Director and Financial Note 6 of the financial statements.
Controller are normally invited to attend the meetings.
Combined with the induction programme for Ashley Martin, The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board the Committee also requested presentations regarding the on the Audit Committees behalf after each meeting.
The Audit availability of the Rightmove.
co. uk website and its disaster Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its duties recovery processes and also the billing and revenue concerning the announcement of results, the Annual and Half recognition controls and processes.
Year Reports and the maintenance of internal controls.
It The Committee reviewed the Annual and Half Year Reports.
reviews the scope and planning of the audit and the auditors The external auditors also presented the results of their review findings and considers the Groups accounting policies and of the 2008 Full Year and 2009 Half Year results as well as the compliance with those policies and applicable legal and their audit plan to the Audit Committee.
In addition to receiving accounting standards.
reports from the external auditors, members met with the The Audit Committee has authority to investigate any external auditors without the presence of the executive directors.
areas of concern as to financial impropriety that arise and to The Committee also reviewed the whistleblowing policy obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice which provides the procedure for staff to report any concerns in connection therewith.
The Audit Committees principal that they may have independent of management about duties and terms of reference are available on the Companys suspected misconduct without fear of retaliation and website, www.
rsp or by request conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
During 2009 the Committee has, amongst other matters, Internal controls approved the appointment of the external auditors, xed their The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups remuneration and reviewed the effectiveness of the external system of internal controls and has established a framework audit process.
The Committee has also considered the need of financial and other controls, which is periodically reviewed for an internal audit function.
Given the simplicity of the in accordance with the Turnbull guidance for its effectiveness.
30 rightmove plc annual report 2009 The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate U i vVV }ii`iL } V measures to ensure that the chances of financial irregularities ow forecasts and is responsible for monitoring compliance occurring are reduced as far as reasonably possible by with bank covenants: and continually seeking to improve the quality of information at U iL}VvV iii i `i all levels in the Group, fostering an open environment and aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with line ensuring that the financial analysis is rigorously applied.
Any management or, if appropriate, condentially outside the line system of internal control is designed to manage rather than management structure.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Through the procedures outlined above, the Board of against material misstatement or loss.
directors has considered all significant aspects of internal The Groups management has established the procedures control for the year and up to the date of this Annual Report necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for and Accounts.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the PJOH DPODFSO whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and up The Board of directors is required under the Combined Code to the date of the approval of these financial statements and to consider whether or not it is appropriate to adopt the going they are reviewed regularly.
concern basis in preparing the Group and the parent Company financial statements.
The key elements of the system of internal control are: As part of its normal business practice the Group prepares annual and longer term financial plans.
In addition, a going U ViV ] i}V]Vii `w V concern paper was prepared and presented to the Audit are formally identied, quantied and assessed, discussed Committee in February 2010 prior to it recommending the with the executive directors, after which they are considered approval of the financial statements and notes to the by the Board of directors: accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 to the U Viiiiv }]L`}i} ` Board of directors.
This includes monthly After reviewing this, the Board of directors has a management reporting and monitoring of performance reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for resources and banking facilities to continue in operational all significant variances: existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue U } ViVi `iwi`iv to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial responsibility and delegation of authority: statements.
Further information is provided in Note 1 to the U i `iwi`VivV ii`i ` financial statements.
investment exist, including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: U Viii` iiVi L i` co-hosting of the Rightmove.
"co. uk website across three separate London locations, which is regularly tested and reviewed: 31 rightmove plc annual report 2009 corporate governance continued 4UBUFNFOU PG EJSFDUPST SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT JO SFTQFDU PG UIF The directors are responsible for keeping adequate ""OOVBM 3FQPSU BOE OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the parent Companys transactions and disclose with and the Group and parent Company financial statements in reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the accordance with applicable law and regulations."
parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably Under that law they are required to prepare the Group open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Under company law the directors must not approve the Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Legislation in the UK governing the In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
UiiV Li VV}Vi `i i consistently: U i`}i `i i ii Li ` prudent: U iiii iLiii i` VV` Vi IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and Ui iiw V iii}}VViL unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
