corporate governance report The revised Combined Code on corporate governance was published of Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have access to the in June 2006 following a review by the Financial Reporting Council company secretary and are able to seek independent advice at the 2006 FRC Code.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual governance.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to the Companys General Meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter shareholders for corporate governance and this statement describes how at intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors are the Company has applied the relevant principles of the 2006 FRC Code.
appointed for speci ed terms not exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the provision of the Companies Act relating to the The Company complied throughout the year with the provisions of the removal of a director.
2006 FRC Code on corporate governance.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Michael Burrow, Bruce Edwards and Hugh Etheridge will offer themselves for re-election The Board to the Board at the next Annual General Meeting.
As this will be the first The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, the Annual General Meeting since his appointment to the Board, Joe Phelan chief executive, the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and will also offer himself for election.
A-Plant, the senior independent non-executive director and three other independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies of the directors are given on page 35.
New Sunbelt chief executive Joe Phelans appointment as the new chief executive of Sunbelt was The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing Board announced on 7 April 2009 and he was appointed as a director of Ashtead agendas and encourages its effectiveness by the provision of timely, Group plc on 23 April 2009.
Prior to his appointment the Nomination accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business, Committee led an extensive search, considering both internal and external to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success candidates for the role.
The search was supported by an external search of the business.
The chairman, assisted by other directors, reviews the rm and resulted in the conclusion that Joe Phelan was the candidate best effectiveness of each member of the Board no less than annually and suited for the position.
facilitates constructive relationships between the executive and nonexecutive directors through both formal and informal meetings.
Non-executive directors The chairman ensures that all directors are briefed properly to enable In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Companys them to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly appointed directors practice to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
Before undertake an induction to all parts of the Groups business.
Additionally, appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure the Board detailed management accounts are sent monthly to all Board members that they can give the time commitment necessary to ful l properly and, in advance of all Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss documentation in respect of each item to be discussed is circulated.
matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
The nonexecutives letters of appointment are available for inspection at the The chairman facilitates effective communication with shareholders Annual General Meeting.
through both the Annual General Meeting and by individual meetings with major shareholders, to develop an understanding of the views of the The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and when investors in the business.
He also ensures that shareholders have access required in the absence of the executive directors to discuss and appraise to other directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the executive directors.
In accordance with the 2006 FRC Code, the nonThe chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which also meet at least annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive undertakes and appraise his performance.
the leadership and responsibility for the direction and management of the day-to-day business and conduct of the Group.
In doing so, the chief executives role includes, but is not restricted to, implementing Board Performance evaluation decisions, delegating responsibility, and reporting to the Board regarding The performance of the chairman, the chief executive, the Board and its the conduct, activities and performance of the Group.
The chief executive committees is evaluated, amongst other things, against their respective chairs the Sunbelt and A-Plant board meetings and sets policies and role pro les and terms of reference.
The executive directors are evaluated direction to maximise returns to shareholders.
additionally against the agreed budget for the generation of revenue, pro t and value to shareholders.
All directors are responsible under the law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that the The evaluation of the chairman, the Board and its committees was strategies proposed by the executive directors are discussed in detail and conducted by way of a questionnaire completed by all of the directors, assessed critically to ensure they are aligned with the long-term interests the results of which were collated by the company secretary and of shareholders and are compatible with the interests of employees, presented to the entire Board.
Based on this evaluation, the Board customers and suppliers.
The Board has reserved to itself those matters concluded that performance in the past year had been satisfactory.
which reinforce its control of the Company.
These include treasury policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of directors or the Board committees company secretary, appointment and removal of the auditors and Audit Committee approval of the annual accounts.
The Audit Committee comprises Hugh Etheridge chairman, who Regular reports and brie ngs are provided to the Board, by the executive has relevant financial experience, Gary Iceton and Michael Burrow.
directors and the company secretary, to ensure the directors are suitably By invitation, the Groups finance director, Ian Robson, and its director briefed to ful l their roles.
The Board normally meets six times a year and of financial reporting, Michael Pratt, normally attend the Committees there is contact between meetings to advance the Companys activities.
meetings, as do representatives of our internal and external auditors.
It is the Boards usual practice to meet at least annually with the boards Other directors are usually also invited to be present if available.
39 The Audit Committee met on five occasions during the year.
The principal The Nomination Committees terms of reference which were reviewed areas considered by the Committee since the last annual report included: and updated on 23 October 2008 will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
the results for the periods ended 31 July 2008, 31 October 2008 and 31 January 2009 and the results for the year ended 30 April 2009: Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held between the external audit plan and key areas of audit focus for the year ended 1 May 2008 and 30 April 2009 30 April 2009: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination reports from the external auditor, Deloitte, related to the results for Number of meetings held 6 5 5 1 the six months ended 31 October 2008 and the year ended 30 April 2009.
The Committee considered the work done and the key accounting Chris Cole 6 1 estimates and principal judgemental accounting and reporting issues: Sat Dhaiwal 6 the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte and, in Geoff Drabble 6 1 that context, the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to them.
The Cliff Miller 5 Committee was satis ed as to their independence, objectivity and Joe Phelan 1 effectiveness: Ian Robson 6 the internal audit plan for the year ended 30 April 2009 and the Michael Burrow 6 5 5 1 reports on the results of that work: Hugh Etheridge 6 5 5 1 audit plans and reports from the internal operational auditors Bruce Edwards 6 1 responsible for auditing detailed operational controls at a pro t Gary Iceton 6 5 5 1 centre level: the Group risk register and reports from the chief executive on the Cliff Millers appointment as a director terminated on 6 April 2009 work of the Group Risk Committee: Joe Phelan was appointed a director by the Board on 23 April 2009 the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial reporting policies: and Finance and Administration Committee reports on matters referred through the Groups whistle blowing The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Chris Cole, Geoff procedures and any actions taken following appropriate investigation.
Drabble and Ian Robson and is chaired by Geoff Drabble.
The Board of directors has delegated authority to this Committee to deal with routine The principal non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, financial and administrative matters between Board meetings.
The for the year relate to their review of the Companys interim results and Committee meets as necessary to perform its role and has a quorum a working capital report prepared in connection with the disposal of requirement of two members with certain matters requiring the Ashtead Technology.
The Audit Committee is satis ed that the nature participation of Chris Cole, non-executive chairman, including, for example, of work undertaken and the level of non-audit fees did not impair their the approval of material announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
The Audit Committees terms of reference which were reviewed and Internal control updated on 23 October 2008 will be available for inspection at the Annual The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system General Meeting.
of internal control and con rm they have reviewed its effectiveness.
Remuneration Committee In doing so, the Group has taken note of the relevant guidance for The Remuneration Committee comprises Gary Iceton chairman, directors, namely Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Hugh Etheridge and Michael Burrow.
Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required during the The Board con rms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating year to set the compensation packages for the executive directors, to and managing signi cant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been establish the terms and conditions of the executive directors employment in place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
During the year, this and to set remuneration policy generally.
Chris Cole and Geoff Drabble process was strengthened through the formation of a formal Group Risk normally attend the meetings of the Committee to assist it in its work.
Management Committee with the objective of encouraging best risk The Committee also engages remuneration consultants to advise it in its management practice across the Group and a culture of regulatory work as and when required.
The Group Risk Management Committee reports annually to the Audit Committee.
These processes None of the members of the Remuneration Committee is currently or accord with the Turnbull Guidance.
has been at any time one of the Companys executive directors or an employee.
None of the executive directors currently serves, or has served, The Board considers that the Groups internal control system is designed as a member of the board of directors of any other company which has appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to one or more of its executive directors serving on the Companys Board achieve business objectives.
Any such control system, however, can or Remuneration Committee.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how these risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in conjunction with the Nomination Committee management teams of each of the Groups businesses and are documented The current members of the Nomination Committee are Chris Cole in an annual report.
The reviews consider whether any matters have arisen chairman, Geoff Drabble, Hugh Etheridge, Gary Iceton, Michael Burrow since the last report was prepared which might indicate omissions or and Bruce Edwards appointed 26 February 2009.
The Nomination inadequacies in that assessment.
It also considers whether, as a result of Committee meets as and when required to consider the structure, changes in either the internal or external environment, any new signi cant the size and composition of the Board of directors.
The executive directors reviewed the draft report for 2009, which was then presented to, discussed and approved by the Audit Committee on 12 May 2009 and by the Group Board on 15 June 2009.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 corporate governance report continued Before producing the statement on internal control for the Annual Report a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2009, the Board reconsidered International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: the operational effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
properly select and apply accounting policies: In particular, through the Audit Committee, it received reports from the present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that operational audit teams and considered the status of implementation provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: of internal control improvement recommendations made by the Groups and internal auditors and its external auditors.
The control system includes provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to enable users to understand accountability and delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions and analysis against budgets and latest forecasts.
on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of Ashtead, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which minor breakdowns in established control procedures can occur.
There are disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the supporting policies and procedures for investigation and management Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the of control breakdowns at any of the Groups pro t centres or elsewhere.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the The Audit Committee also meets regularly with the external auditors preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report to discuss their work.
which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act.
In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and monitoring The Board con rms to the best of its knowledge: procedures include: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS management information, including a monthly pro t and loss account as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and selected balance sheet data for each pro t centre: financial position and pro t of the Group: and the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authority the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and levels and proper segregation of accounting duties at the Groups performance of the business and the position of the Group, together accounting support centres: with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board, including income statements for the Group and each subsidiary, balance sheet Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of and cash ow statement: financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update forecasts which are reviewed by the executive directors and then by the Board: Going concern a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory counts The Groups operations and financial condition, together with factors likely conducted at each pro t centre by equipment type independently to affect its future development, performance and condition are set out checked on a sample basis by our operational auditors and external in the Business and Financial Review on pages 7 to 33.
In particular, auditors: the Groups financial management and cash ow, including details of detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres the Groups banking facilities are set out on pages 30 to 32.
In addition, undertaken by internal audit specialists from a major international note 25 to the financial statements describes the Groups financial risk accounting rm: management policies and processes, including its exposure to interest comprehensive audits at the pro t centres generally carried out rate risk, currency exchange risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
annually by internal operational audit.
A summary of this work is The Groups debt facilities are committed for a weighted average period provided annually to the Audit Committee: and of 4.6 years with the earliest signi cant maturity being the ABL facility a review of arrangements by which staff may, in con dence, raise which matures in August 2011.
The Group nances its day to day activity concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting via the ABL facility under which available unused borrowings totalled or other matters.
Taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance and used equipment values and recognising the Statement of directors responsibilities risks generated by the uncertain economic outlook, the Group expects The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the to maintain signi cant headroom under the ABL facility until its maturity.
The directors are required to prepare financial As a consequence, the directors believe the Group is well placed to statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial manage its nancing risks successfully.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company After making enquiries, the directors therefore have a reasonable expectation in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act operation for the foreseeable future and consequently that it is appropriate and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, requires that financial By order of the Board statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the representation of the effects of transactions, as well as other events and conditions, in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, Eric Watkins Company secretary 17 June 2009
