Governance Corporate governance The board of directors fi rmly believes that Sir David Clementi and David Mayhew The board meets regularly in order to effectively conduct its business.
In 2009, high standards of corporate governance have announced their intention to retire there were eight scheduled board meetings form an essential underpinning to the from the boards upon the conclusion of and eight board meetings convened delivery of Rio Tintos core objective: to the annual general meetings of Rio Tinto and held at short notice.
The number of maximise total return to shareholders on 22 April 2010.
The board will then meetings held in 2009 is a refl ection of the through a strategy of investing in and comprise 14 directors of which ten will considerable corporate activity of the board operating large, long term, cost competitive be independent non executive directors.
during the year, particularly in relation mines and businesses, driven not by choice Role and responsibilities to mergers and acquisitions matters, of commodity but rather by the quality of including the proposed iron ore production each opportunity.
The principal role of the board is to set joint venture and the recapitalisation of the Groups core objective and to regularly Rio Tinto is a dual listed company but the Groups balance sheet.
Details of the review its strategic direction.
In doing this, structured as a single economic entity.
It directors attendance at all of the board and the board also has responsibility for the has adopted a unifi ed approach to corporate committee meetings held in 2009 is set out establishment and maintenance of effective governance to comply with the regulatory on page 96. standards of corporate governance across obligations associated with its three main the Group and oversees managements The board has regular discussions with the stock exchange listings in the UK, Australia control and accountability framework.
executive during the year on the Groups and the US.
A formal schedule of matters specifi cally strategy.
These discussions will typically include strategy presentations that are In compiling this report, the directors reserved for decision or consideration by given by product group chief executives, have referred to The Combined Code the board as a whole has been agreed by the other members of the Executive committee on Corporate Governance, published by directors.
This schedule covers areas such as or global heads of functions.
The board also the UK Financial Reporting Council the the Groups strategy, major investments and holds an annual two day strategy setting Code, the Australian Securities Exchange acquisitions.
It is available on the corporate meeting with the Executive committee ASX Corporate Governance Principles governance section of the website.
which includes broader, detailed review and Recommendations 2nd edition the In line with its principal role, the board sessions on the Groups strategic direction.
ASX Principles, and the New York Stock is ultimately accountable to Rio Tintos The outputs from this annual event help Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance shareholders for the performance of the underpin the boards annual budget Standards the NYSE Standards.
Responsibility for day to day planning exercise and provide direction of compliance with the requirements of management of the business is undertaken and focus to the executive team and to the these codes are set out on page 103.
Rio through delegated authority and rests rest of Rio Tintos people through effective Tintos website contains further information with the chief executive who in turn allocation of the Groups resources.
about the corporate governance framework.
has established an executive team, the Executive committee, with authorities Board delegated to individual executives within Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have an agreed fi financial control framework.
The board The board agrees annual performance is responsible for the success of the Group targets, which include personal and and is accountable to shareholders for the business performance measures, under performance of the business.
the Groups short term incentive plan detailed on page 107 of the Remuneration Membership report.
These performance targets are As of the date of this report, the board determined by the Remuneration committee consists of 15 directors: the chairman, on behalf of the board for the chief three executive directors and 11 non executive based upon his proposals and executive directors, of whom ten are deemed objectives for the year.
Robert Brown was appointed establishes complementary targets for as a non executive director on 9 February the other members of his Executive 2010, with effect from 1 April 2010.
Bobs committee which are then cascaded appointment will bring the number of throughout management teams.
Further board members to 16, 11 of whom are details of the process for the evaluation deemed independent.
The names, skills of the performance of the executive and experience of each director together directors and other senior executives is with their terms in offi ce are shown in the discussed in the Remuneration report.
biographical details on pages 84 to 87.
Details of changes to the board during 2009 and in the year to date are set out in the Directors report on page 92.
94 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information Directors receive timely, regular and Chairman chairman with each individual director which also provided the chairman with an appropriate management and other The chairman meets regularly with non opportunity to provide feedback on their information to enable them to fulfi l their executive directors without the executive individual performance.
They also have direct access to directors being present at meetings of the conclusion of this exercise, the board held the advice and services of the company Nominations committee, the membership a dedicated session at one of its scheduled secretaries.
In the event that they consider of which comprises the chairman and other meetings to discuss the output from its it to be required in the delivery of their non executive directors.
performance evaluation and to agree a fi duciary duties, the directors are also able number of actions.
These actions, which are to obtain independent professional advice Board performance evaluation in the course of implementation, include at the Groups expense through the Each year, the board undertakes a process practical measures to make board meetings company secretaries.
to evaluate its effectiveness and that of the more effective, including allowing more board committees and individual directors.
In addition to these formal processes, regular opportunities with members of the Each non executive directors performance is directors are in regular informal Executive committee during the year to appraised personally by the chairman and, in communication with members of the review individual product group strategies a meeting chaired by the senior independent Executive committee and other senior as well as presentations by the Groups non executive director, the non executive executives which encourages an open functional leaders in the areas of technology directors assess the chairmans performance, and regular exchange of knowledge and and innovation, risk management and taking into consideration the views of experience between management and climate change.
For the board committees, a similar For 2009, the board and board committee To continue building on the formal questionnaire was produced in 2009 in evaluation process was overseen by Jan induction programmes, which all new non agreement with the committee chairman and du Plessis in his capacity as chairman of executive directors undertake, they are was circulated to each committee member the board.
This process was supported by encouraged to take every opportunity to and regular attendees.
The questionnaire the company secretary and took the form make site visits to the Groups operations invited comments on a number of areas, of a detailed questionnaire circulated around the world and to meet local including the role and responsibilities of the to all members of the board.
In 2009, directors were able to committee, its organisation and effectiveness questionnaire invited comments on a benefi t in this way by visits to the Groups and the qualifi cations of its members.
The number of key areas, including board operations in Australia and Canada.
The results of the questionnaires were collated dynamics, board capability, board process, and presented for discussion and debate at board also takes the opportunity to combine board structure, corporate governance, meetings of the Audit and Remuneration attendance at the annual general meeting in strategic clarity and alignment, and the committees and the Committee on social Australia and at the two day strategy review performance of individual committees and and environmental accountability.
Actions meeting with site visits.
The results of the questionnaire were agreed from this process, for example, formed the basis of discussions led by the the realignment of Committee meeting Governance structure Board of directors Board committees Audit Remuneration Committee on social Nominations Chairmans and environmental committee committee committee committee accountability Executive committee Management committees Closure Continuous Disclosure Finance Investment Ore reserves committee disclosure and procedures committee committee steering committee committee committee www.
com 95 Governance Corporate governance continued Board committee membership and attendance at board and committee meetings during 2009 Committee on social Remuneration and environmental Nominations Chairmans Audit committee committee accountability committee committee Chairman Sir David Clementi Andrew Gould Richard Goodmanson Jan du Plessis Jan du Plessis Members Vivienne Cox Sir David Clementi Sir Rod Eddington All non executive directors Tom Albanese Michael Fitzpatrick Michael Fitzpatrick Yves Fortier Guy Elliott Richard Goodmanson Lord Kerr Ann Godbehere Lord Kerr Paul Tellier Paul Tellier 1.
Paul Skinner was chair of the Nominations committee and Chairmans committee until his retirement on 20 April 2009.
Upon his appointment as chairman, Jan du Plessis ceased to be a member of the Audit committee.
All non executive directors became members of the Nominations committee with effect from 1 January 2010.
David Mayhew attends the Audit committee in an advisory capacity.
Ann Godbehere became a member and chairman designate of the Audit committee upon her appointment on 9 February 2010.
Ann will become chairman of the Audit committee upon Sir David Clementis retirement at the conclusion of the 2010 annual general meetings.
Committee on social Remuneration Nominations and environmental Chairmans Board scheduled Board short notice Audit committee committee committee accountability committee AB AB AB AB AB AB AB Tom Albanese 8 8 8 8 22 17 Sir David Clementi 8 7 8 5 10 10 8 7 Vivienne Cox 8 8 8 6 10 8 Jan du Plessis 8 8 8 8 4 3 2 2 15 15 Sir Rod Eddington 8 8 8 7 3 3 5 5 Guy Elliott 8 8 8 8 22 20 Dick Evans 2 2 5 4 Michael Fitzpatrick 8 8 8 7 10 8 8 7 Yves Fortier 8 8 8 7 3 3 5 5 Richard Goodmanson 8 8 8 5 8 8 5 5 Andrew Gould 8 7 8 5 8 7 3 3 Lord Kerr 8886 109 55 Jim Leng 1 1 1 1 11 David Mayhew 8 8 8 7 3 3 Paul Skinner 2 2 5 5 1 1 8 8 Paul Tellier 8 8 8 7 10 10 8 8 Sam Walsh 5 5 Notes A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
schedules to allow greater time to be spent thresholds for the measurement of that all of its non executive directors, with on areas affecting the Group, including risk independence to be approved by the board, the exception of David Mayhew, who is management, executive remuneration policy is on the corporate governance section of chairman of JP Morgan Cazenove Limited, and dedicated sessions on local community one of Rio Tinto plcs corporate brokers, are the website.
Among the key criteria are engagement practices.
independent in accordance with this policy.
independence from management and the absence of any business relationship which In respect of the chairmans own performance David Mayhew has announced his intention could materially interfere with the directors evaluation, Andrew Gould, in his capacity as to retire from the board at the conclusion of independence of judgement and ability to senior independent director discussed and the annual general meetings in April 2010 provide a strong, valuable contribution to agreed with the other non executive directors following which all of the non executive the boards deliberations, or which could that no individual performance evaluation directors will be independent in accordance interfere with the directors ability to act of the chairman would be undertaken for with this policy.
in the best interest of the Group.
Where the period since his appointment to that role contracts in the ordinary course of business Jan du Plessis, upon his original appointment on 20 April 2009.
Such an evaluation will be exist between Rio Tinto and a company in to the board as a non executive director undertaken in 2010. which a director has declared an interest, in September 2008, was deemed to be these are reviewed for materiality to both Independence independent in accordance with the criteria the Group, and the other party to the set by the boards policy.
At the time of his The tests of independence of a non contract.
Material is defi ned in the policy appointment as non executive chairman executive director in the jurisdictions as being where the relationship accounts from 20 April 2009, the board determined where Rio Tinto has listings are not wholly for more than two per cent of either Rio that he continued to be independent under consistent.
The board has therefore adopted Tintos or the other parties consolidated the policy.
In the boards view, he continues a formal policy for the determination of the gross revenue per annum, although the test to satisfy the tests for independence under independence of its non executive directors.
also takes other circumstances into account.
the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
This policy, which includes materiality Applying these criteria, the board is satisfi ed 96 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information Directors confl icts of interest Election and re-election are maintained throughout the Group.
Each committee is governed by terms of UK company law allows the board to The directors may appoint additional reference which are reviewed annually by authorise a situation in which there is, or members to join the board during the year.
the committees and the board to ensure may be, a confl ict between the interests of Directors appointed in this way will, upon they continue to meet requirements and Rio Tinto and the direct or indirect interests the recommendation of the board, offer to be at the forefront of best practice.
of a director or between the directors themselves for election by shareholders at The current terms of reference for each duties to Rio Tinto and to another person.
the fi first annual general meetings after their committee can be viewed in the corporate In 2008, Rio Tinto shareholders approved appointment.
Subject to that election and governance section of the website.
changes to the Companies constitutions to satisfactory performance, directors will to give directors the power to authorise offer themselves for re-election at least once Audit committee such confl icts.
The board has adopted every three years.
Non executive directors The primary function of the Audit committee, procedures for ensuring that its powers to are normally expected to serve at least two as set out in its terms of reference which are authorise confl icts operate effectively.
For terms of three years and, except in special summarised below, is to assist the board in this purpose, a register of confl icts and circumstances, would not normally serve fulfi lling its responsibilities by monitoring any authorisation granted by the board is more than three such terms.
The directors decisions and processes designed to ensure maintained by the company secretary and standing for election and re-election at the the integrity of fi financial reporting and regularly reviewed by the board.
2010 annual general meetings are set out sound systems of internal control and risk in the Directors report on page 92. management.
The scope of the Committees Executive directors other directorships responsibilities includes: fi financial reporting Chairman and chief executive Executive directors may on occasion be and internal controls over fi financial reporting: invited to become non executive directors The roles of the chairman and chief internal controls: corporate assurance: of other companies.
The board has adopted executive are separate and the division of external auditors: risk management: and the a procedure under which approval may be their respective responsibilities has been whistle blowing programme.
given to accept such invitations recognising formally approved by the board.
the benefi t to be derived to the individual In carrying out its responsibilities the Board committees and to Rio Tinto from such exposure.
For Committee has full authority to investigate full details see page 113. all matters that fall within its terms of There are fi five committees that have been reference.
Accordingly, the Committee may: established to assist the board in meeting its responsibilities: the Audit committee, Obtain independent professional advice in Remuneration committee, Nominations the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of committee, the Committee on social and the Group: environmental accountability and the Have such direct access to the resources Chairmans committee.
Each committee of the Group as it may reasonably require plays a key role in helping the board ensure that high standards of corporate governance including the external and internal auditors.
Report of the Audit committee that the provision of non audit services the Groups accounting principles and by the external auditors during 2009 is underlying estimates.
The Audit committee met ten times in compatible with the general standard 2009.
The Audit committee terms of The Committee has discussed with the of independence for auditors and the reference were reviewed in 2009 and external auditors their independence, standards imposed by the Australian changes were adopted to refl ect evolving and received and reviewed their written Corporations Act 2001. regulatory requirements and, in the disclosures, as required by the Public light of external developments, to clarify Company Accounting Oversight Board As part of its responsibility to foster that the Audit committee is the board Rule 3526 Communication with Audit open communication, the Committee met committee responsible for oversight Committees Concerning Independence.
separately with management, the external of risk management generally whilst auditors and the internal auditor during Based on the reviews and discussions referred accountability for risk management the year.
to above, the Committee has recommended remains with the chief executive and his to the board that the fi financial statements The Committee has reviewed and Executive committee.
referred to above be approved.
discussed with management the Groups In 2009, the Committee reviewed the audited fi financial statements for the year independence of the external auditors, ended 31 December 2009.
, who have been The Committee discussed with the auditors to the Group since 1995.
The On behalf of the Audit committee external auditors the matters described effectiveness of the external auditors Sir David Clementi chairman in the International Standard on Auditing was also reviewed to ensure that the UK and Ireland 260, Communication of Group continues to receive an effi cient Audit Matters with those charged with and unbiased service from them.
Having governance ISA 260, including their concluded its review, the Committee judgements regarding the quality of reported to the board that it is satisfi ed www.
com 97 Governance Corporate governance continued The Audit committees main responsibilities The Committee is also bound by SEC regularly reviews and assesses and which include the review of accounting principles, requirements for audit committees are approved by the board.
The terms policies and practices adopted in the fi financial experts and the Code and ASX of reference are set out in the corporate preparation of public fi financial information, Principles requirement that at least one governance section of the website.
review with management of procedures committee member should have recent and The Nominations committee is chaired relating to fi financial and capital expenditure relevant fi financial experience.
Following by Jan du Plessis, chairman of the board controls, including internal audit plans the retirement of Sir David Clementi as its and comprises all the other non executive and reports, review with external auditors chairman with effect from the conclusion directors.
The Committee is responsible, on of the scope and results of their audit, the of the 2010 annual general meetings, behalf of the board, for regularly assessing nomination of auditors for appointment Ann Godbehere, currently a member of the balance of executive and non executive by shareholders, and the review of and the Committee and who becomes its directors and the composition of the board recommendation to the board for approval chairman at that time, and Mike Fitzpatrick in terms of the skills, diversity and capacity of Rio Tintos risk management policies are considered by the board to have recent required to ensure it remains relevant and and processes.
Its responsibilities also and relevant fi financial experience and are appropriately aligned to oversee the delivery include the review of the annual fi financial therefore the Committees fi financial experts.
of Rio Tintos core objective and strategy.
The statements of Group sponsored pension and All other members of the Committee are Committee further reviews the time required superannuation funds, and oversight of the deemed to be fi nancially literate by virtue to be committed to Group business by non whistleblowing programme.
executive directors and assesses whether non of their business experience in the opinion To ensure the Committee discharges its executive directors are devoting suffi cient of the Audit committee.
responsibilities, it meets not less than four time to carry out their duties.
times per year and arranges occasional Remuneration committee Taking into account these factors, the training sessions which may cover new The Remuneration committee assists the Committee develops and agrees the desired legislation and other information relevant Board to fulfi l its oversight responsibility to profi les of potential candidates for board to the Committees role.
The Groups chief shareholders to ensure that remuneration membership.
In consultation with external fi financial offi cer, other senior fi financial policy and practices reward fairly and search consultants it then oversees the management, external and internal responsibly and with a clear link to review and recruitment process to fi ll auditors regularly attend its meetings.
The recruitment corporate and individual performance.
The members of the Committee are process itself includes identifi cation of The report of the Remuneration committee independent and free of any relationship that suitable candidates, followed by a formal which has been reviewed by the Committee would interfere with impartiality in carrying assessment of each candidate, leading to a and approved by the board can be found out their responsibilities.
The members fi final selection process.
Proposals for new on pages 104 to 129. meet the independence requirements of the board members are submitted to the full Code, the ASX Principles and the NYSE Code, board for approval.
On behalf of the board, Nominations committee and the Committee meets the composition, the Committee also reviews proposals The Nominations committee is governed operation and responsibility requirements for senior executive appointments and by terms of reference which the Committee of the ASX Principles.
Report of the Nominations committee However, Mr Leng subsequently decided to In accordance with its terms of reference, the resign from the board on 9 February 2009.
Committee reviewed with the chief executive The Committees activities in 2009 covered proposed changes to the Executive committees the succession of the chairman, executive In response to Mr Lengs decision to organisation and an announcement directorships, non executive succession and resign from the board, a new process concerning its revised membership was changes to the Executive committee.
was immediately initiated by the senior made on 15 October 2009.
The Committee independent director which was aimed In 2008, as the end of his second three also reviewed non executive succession at identifying a suitable successor to year term of appointment as chairman arrangements for the board, resulting most Paul Skinner based upon the previously approached, Paul Skinner notifi ed the recently in an announcement to appoint Ann agreed criteria for the role.
This process was Committee of his intention to retire from Godbehere and Robert Brown as additional supported by all of the other non executive the board.
Under the guidance of the senior non executive directors from 9 February 2010 directors, together with external independent director, Andrew Gould, the and 1 April 2010 respectively.
Taking into account the Committee considered the desired skills and of these appointments are contained in the leadership skills and experience required in experience required for the appointment of a Annual report.
the role, the Committee discussed the new, non executive chairman and developed opportunity with Jan du Plessis who, with and agreed a profi le for this role.
Consultants the unanimous support of the Committee were engaged to assist the Committee in the and all of the other members of the board, identifi cation of the new chairman as a result On behalf of the Board agreed to accept the nomination and was of which, following a formal assessment Ben Mathews, secretary therefore appointed as chairman with effect by the Committee, a recommendation was from 20 April 2009, upon the retirement of Nominations committee made to the board.
Jim Leng was appointed Paul Skinner.
as an independent non executive director and chairman designate on 14 January 2009.
98 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information The members of the Nominations Australia and Canada forum Closure committee committee are independent with the An advisory forum has been established This Committee oversees the closure exception of David Mayhew.
The chairman management programme in place in each of Australia and Canada to advise is considered independent under the to manage the signifi cant fi financial, the board and executive management on ASX Principles.
Under the Code he is not reputational and operational risk of site political, economic and social developments considered independent following his closures.
The members of the Committee in those countries which could impact appointment as chairman, however the are: global head of Planning and Reporting, the successful development of Rio Tintos Code specifi cally allows the chairman to the global head of Health, Safety & businesses.
Each forum meets twice annually chair the Nominations committee.
The Environment, Group executive, Legal & and is attended by the chairman, chief composition of the Committee is therefore External Affairs, global practice leader executive, chief fi financial offi cer, local also compliant with the Code.
Communities, senior vice president Human directors and senior management.
Resources, Health, Safety & Environment Committee on social and Rio Tinto Alcan and until his retirement Management environmental accountability in October 2009, the former Group On behalf of the board, the chief executive executive Technology & Innovation.
The The Committee on social and environmental has delegated authority for the day to day activities of the Committee are supported accountability is governed by terms of management of the Groups operations.
The by a sub committee working group to reference which it reviews and assesses each chief executive, chief fi financial offi cer and assist, coordinate and implement the year and which are approved by the board.
the heads of the product and global support closure management programme.
The terms of reference are available in the groups share management responsibility for corporate governance section of the website.
the management of the business.
Continuous disclosure committee The Committee assists the board to oversee The Committee is chaired by the chief The chief executive is assisted by the work management processes, standards, and fi financial offi cer and has ultimate of management committees in monitoring strategies designed to manage social responsibility for determining the performance and achieving Rio Tintos and environmental risks and achieve information that requires disclosure strategy.
The management committees are compliance with social and environmental to the markets under the continuous described below.
The disclosure requirements in the Committee reviews the effectiveness of Executive committee jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto is listed.
management policies and procedures The members of the Committee are: the The Executive committee is responsible, relating to safety, health, employment chief fi financial offi cer, company secretary under the leadership of the chief executive, practices, relationships with neighbouring of Rio Tinto plc, managing director of for the day to day management of the communities, environment, human rights, Rio Tinto Australia, head of Business business, setting performance targets and land access, political involvement and Development, head of Investor Relations implementation of the Groups strategy sustainable development.
and global practice leader Media Relations.
and direction as determined by the board.
The members of the Committee are: the A report on the Groups sustainable chief executive, the chief fi financial offi cer, development activities is set out on the product group chief executives, the pages 24 to 33 of this of this report.
Group executive Technology & Innovation, Chairmans committee the Group executive Legal & External Affairs, the Group executive People and The Committee acts on behalf of the board Organisation and the Group executive between scheduled board meetings either in Business Support & Operations.
accordance with authority delegated by the board or as specifi cally set out within its terms of reference.
It supports the functioning of the board and ensures that the business of the board and its committees is properly planned and aligned with management.
When mandated by the board, the Chairmans Committee will consider urgent matters between board meetings, and deal with the implementation of board decisions on transactions and other corporate matters.
Other than for the chairman of the board, the Committee performs the annual review of non executive directors fees and makes a recommendation to the board as appropriate.
The membership of the Committee comprises the chairman, chief executive and chief fi financial offi cer.
com 99 Governance Corporate governance continued Disclosure and procedures committee The main channels of communication with Communication the investment community are through The primary role of this Committee is to Rio Tinto recognises the importance the chairman, chief executive and chief assist the board, Audit committee and of effective timely communication fi financial offi cer, who have regular meetings individual directors and offi cers who are with shareholders and the wider with the Companies major shareholders.
required under various regulations to investment community.
The senior independent director and other endorse the Groups shareholder reports and To ensure that trading in its securities non executive directors are also available, other public documents.
The members of takes place in an informed market, the as appropriate.
The Group organises the Committee are: the company secretary Group has adopted continuous disclosure regular investor seminars which provide of Rio Tinto plc, global head of Planning standards which are overseen by the a two way communication opportunity & Reporting, head of Compliance, head of Continuous disclosure committee and with investors and analysts: the valuable Corporate Assurance and the global head form part of the Groups corporate feedback is communicated to the board.
Rio Tinto makes Surveys of major shareholders opinions and immediate disclosure to the listing Finance committee perceptions of the Group are presented to authorities of any information that a the board by the Groups investor relations The Finance committee is responsible, reasonable person would expect to advisors on a regular basis.
under the leadership of the chief fi financial have a material effect on its share price offi cer, to review and advise on issues that in accordance with their rules.
All Business practice arise in the day to day workings within information released to the markets is the functional areas of the chief fi financial Statement of business practice posted on the media section of the website.
The members of the The way we work is Rio Tintos global code In addition to statutory documents, Committee are: the chief fi financial offi cer, of conduct and one of the Groups most Rio Tintos website features in depth global head of Planning and Reporting, important documents.
The global code information on health, safety and the global head of Treasury, global head of was fi first launched in 1997 and was revised environment, as well as general investor Taxation, head of Investor Relations and and reissued in 2009 to refl ect Rio Tintos information, publications and policies the head of business development.
changing environment and take into and guidance.
Full and half year results account the integration of Rio Tinto Alcan.
Investment committee as well as any major presentations are Its objective is to help protect and promote also webcast.
Presentation material from The purpose of the Investment committee Rio Tintos reputation which plays a critical investor seminars is also made available is to review proposals for major capital role in the success of the business and on the website.
decisions by the board and by Group ability to generate shareholder value.
companies to ensure that they accord with Full advantage is taken of the annual general The way we work contains principles and the strategic objectives established by the meetings to inform shareholders of recent standards of conduct which reaffi rm board.
The members of the Committee are: developments and to give shareholders the the Groups commitment to corporate the chief executive, chief fi financial offi cer, opportunity to ask questions.
It is inspired by our four core Group executive, Technology & Innovation the chairs of all board committees will be values: accountability, respect, teamwork and Group executive, Business Support available to answer questions raised by and integrity.
It is largely derived from, & Operations.
shareholders and all directors are expected and supported by, Rio Tintos extensive to attend where possible.
Rio Tintos external Ore reserves steering committee framework of policies and standards.
auditor,  attends The Ore reserves steering committee is the annual general meeting and is available Core policies are adopted by the board after the primary governance body over the ore to answer shareholder questions about the wide consultation, externally and within the reserve estimation and disclosure processes.
conduct of the audit and the preparation Group.
Once adopted, they are communicated The members of the Committee are: the and content of the auditors report.
Rio Tinto to business units worldwide, together with Group executive Technology & Innovation, Limiteds shareholders may also submit mandatory standards and guidance notes to global head of Planning and Reporting, written questions regarding the statutory support implementation.
Business units are global practice leader, Strategic Production audit report to the auditors.
Any questions required to devote the necessary effort by Planning Technology & Innovation, chief received and answers provided are made management to implement and report advisor, Evaluation, chief advisor, Orebody available at that meeting.
on these policies and standards.
Knowledge, Technology & Innovation, chief advisor, Resources and Reserves Technology & Innovation, general manager, Resource Development Rio Tinto Iron Ore and consulting geologist Rio Tinto Exploration.
100 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information Rio Tintos core policies, addressed in Sustainable development Risk management policies and approach The way we work, include: access to land: Rio Tintos report on sustainable development Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral business integrity: communities: corporate follows the guidelines of the Association of and unavoidable component of the business, governance: employment: environment: British Insurers and is set out on pages 24 to 33. and that it is characterised by both threat human rights: internal controls and In addition the performance of the Group and of and opportunity.
The Group fosters a risk reporting: occupational health: political aware corporate culture in all decision its separate businesses has been disclosed on the involvement: safety: sustainable development making, and is committed to managing all website.
Rio Tinto reports online in accordance and transparency.
These are supported by risk in a proactive and effective manner with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines.
policies in the areas of risk, information through competent risk management.
Dealing in Rio Tinto securities support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the management decisions Rio Tinto has a set of rules which restrict the Each policy is supported by standards taken at all levels within the organisation.
dealing in Rio Tinto securities by directors and expanding on the minimum expectations The principles of the risk analysis and employees with access to inside information.
on topics such as antitrust, continuous management process are set out in the Risk These rules require those people to seek disclosure, antibribery, compliance, policy and standard which is in the corporate clearance from the chairman or the company cultural heritage and health, safety and the governance section of the website.
secretary before any proposed dealing to ensure environment.
Many of these standards are that they do not deal when in possession of supplemented by guidance notes.
These Roles and responsibilities inside information.
Directors or members of policies and standards apply to all Rio Tinto The Risk policy and standard is supported by the Executive committee will not be given managed businesses.
Where the Group an integrated framework of risk governance clearance during close periods immediately does not have operating responsibility and reporting specifying how the Group preceding the announcement of annual and for a business, Rio Tintos policies are organises the handling of risk.
The rules prohibit the hedging of communicated to its business partners with the policy, the supporting roles and unvested options.
The Rules for dealing in Rio and they are encouraged to adopt similar infrastructure, the framework makes up the Tinto securities can be viewed in the corporate policies of their own.
Rio Tinto employees complete Rio Tinto approach to risk analysis governance section of the website.
are required to undertake mandatory onand management.
line training about the requirements of The Risk management The directors are responsible for the way we work and several other core policies.
Groups system of internal controls and Rio Tintos overriding objective is to maximise Whistleblowing programme for reviewing annually its effectiveness in the overall long term return to shareholders providing shareholders with a return on through a strategy of investing in large, cost The board has adopted a Groupwide their investments that is consistent with a competitive mines and businesses.
The whistleblowing programme called Speakresponsible assessment and management directors recognise that creating shareholder OUT.
Employees are encouraged to report of risks.
This includes reviewing fi financial, return is the reward for taking and accepting any concerns, including any suspicion of a operational and compliance controls and risk.
The directors have established a process violation of the Groups fi financial reporting risk management procedures and their for identifying, evaluating and managing the or environmental procedures, through effectiveness.
The directors have completed material business risks faced by the Group.
This an independent third party and without their annual review and assessment for 2009. process was in place during 2009 and up fear of recrimination.
A process has been Whilst the Audit committee is responsible to and including the date of approval of established for the investigation of any for oversight of the effectiveness of the risk the 2009 Annual report.
matters reported with clear lines of reporting management process, accountability for and responsibility in each Group business.
A description of some of the principal risks identifying and managing risks rests with the and uncertainties that could affect Rio Tinto chief executive and is cascaded throughout are found on pages 16 to 19. the Group through the Executive committee.
com 101 Governance Corporate governance continued Internal risk control systems The function operates independently of Auditors and internal assurance management, under a mandate approved Two of the Groups management Auditor independence by the Audit committee and the Committee committees, the Executive committee and As indicated in the Audit committee on social and environmental accountability the Disclosures and procedures committee section on pages 97 to 98, Rio Tinto has CSEA and has full access to all functions, regularly review reports related to the adopted policies designed to uphold the records, property and personnel of the Groups control framework.
Each year, independence of the Groups principal Group.
The head of Corporate Assurance the leaders of the Groups businesses and auditors by prohibiting their engagement reports functionally to both the Audit administrative offi ces complete an internal to provide a range of accounting and committee and CSEA, providing each control questionnaire that seeks to confi rm other professional services that might committee with information relevant to that adequate internal controls are in place, compromise their appointment as their specifi c terms of reference.
are operating effectively and are designed independent auditors.
to capture and evaluate failings and A risk based approach is used to focus weaknesses, if any exist, and take prompt The engagement of the Groups principal assurance activities on high risk areas and action, as appropriate.
Once reviewed by auditors to provide statutory audit services, audit plans are presented annually to the the Executive committee, the results of other services pursuant to legislation, taxation Audit committee and CSEA for approval.
this process are presented to the Audit services and certain other services are preIn respect of its internal audit function, committee and the board as a further part of approved.
Any engagement of the Groups Rio Tinto has an external service provider.
their review of the Groups internal controls.
principal auditors to provide other permitted The Audit committee has a policy which Assurance functions, including internal services is subject to the specifi c approval of addresses confl icts of interest in relation auditors and sustainable development the Audit committee or its chairman.
to management requested engagements of auditors, perform reviews of the integrity Prior to the commencement of each the service provider.
The policy complies and effectiveness of control activities and fi financial year the Groups chief fi financial with the Institute of Internal Auditors provide regular written and oral reports to offi cer and its principal auditors submit International Standards on independence.
to the Audit committee a schedule of the Certain services are pre-approved under In 2009, information was reported by types of services that are expected to be the policy as they would not be in confl ict management to the Audit committee to performed during the following year for with the internal auditors role.
The Audit committee may list of prohibited services which may not be enable it to assess the effectiveness of the undertaken without approval of the head of internal controls and the management of impose a US dollar limit on the total value Corporate Assurance, and guidance on the material business risks.
In addition, as part of other permitted services that can be consideration of services which may give of their role, the board and its committees provided.
Any non audit service provided rise to a confl ict of interest.
monitor the Groups material business by the Groups principal auditors, where the expected fee exceeds a pre determined risks.
These reports and risk management Financial reporting level, must be subject to the Groups normal processes satisfy the internal control tender procedures.
requirements of the Code and ASX Principles.
Internal control In exceptional circumstances the chief Management is responsible for establishing Due to the limitations inherent in any fi financial offi cer is authorised to engage the and maintaining adequate internal control risk management system, the process for Groups principal auditors to provide such over fi financial reporting.
Internal control identifying, evaluating and managing the services without going to tender, but if the over fi financial reporting is a process designed material business risks is designed to manage fees are expected to exceed US$250,000 under the supervision of the chief executive rather than eliminate risk and to provide then the chairman of the Audit committee and chief fi financial offi cer to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance must approve the engagement.
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability against material misstatement or loss.
of fi financial reporting and the preparation Certain risks, for example natural disasters, The remuneration of the Groups principal and fair presentation of the Groups published cannot be managed to an acceptable auditors for audit services and other services, fi financial statements for external reporting degree using internal controls.
Such major as well as remuneration payable to other purposes in accordance with IFRS.
risks are transferred to third parties in the accounting fi rms, has been set out in note 43 international insurance markets, to the to the fi financial statements on page 199.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal extent considered appropriate.
The Group control over fi financial reporting cannot The board has established a policy that the has material investments in a number of provide absolute assurance, and may not principal auditors engagement partners will jointly controlled entities and associates.
prevent or detect all misstatements whether rotate every fi five years.
Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial caused by error or fraud, if any, within each control, it cannot guarantee that local of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Corporate Assurance management of mining and related assets The Corporate Assurance function provides The Groups internal control over fi financial will comply with Rio Tinto standards or independent and objective assurance on the reporting includes policies and procedures objectives.
Accordingly, the review of their adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups that pertain to the maintenance of records internal controls is less comprehensive than systems for risk management, internal that, in reasonable detail, accurately and that of the Groups managed operations.
control, and governance together with fairly refl ect transactions and dispositions ideas and recommendations to improve of assets: provide reasonable assurances This process for identifying, evaluating those systems.
The function has adopted that transactions are recorded as necessary and managing the material business risks international auditing standards set by the to permit preparation of fi financial statements is continually reviewed and strengthened, Institute of Internal Auditors Inc. in accordance with IFRS, and that receipts as appropriate.
102 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Financial Shareholder Governance statements information and expenditures are being made only The directors consider that the 2009 NYSE Standards in accordance with authorisation of Annual report presents a true and fair view Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with management and the directors of the and have been prepared in accordance with American Depositary Shares listed on the Companies: and provide reasonable assurance applicable accounting standards, using the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to regarding prevention or timely detection of most appropriate accounting policies for disclose any signifi cant ways in which its unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition Rio Tintos business and supported by practices of corporate governance differ of the Companys assets that could have a reasonable judgements and estimates.
The from the NYSE standards.
material effect on the fi financial statements.
accounting policies have been consistently The Company has reviewed the NYSE applied.
The directors have received a There were no signifi cant changes in the Standards and believes that its practices written statement from the chief executive internal controls or in other factors that are broadly consistent with them, with and the chief fi financial offi cer to this effect.
could signifi cantly affect internal controls one exception.
The NYSE Standards state In accordance with the internal control of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto that companies must have a nominating requirements of the Code and the ASX Limited subsequent to the date of their corporate governance committee composed Principles Recommendation 7.3, this written most recent evaluation.
entirely of independent directors, with statement relies on a sound system of risk written terms of reference which, in management and internal compliance and Financial statements addition to identifying individuals controls which implements the policies The directors are required to prepare qualifi ed to become board members, adopted by the board and confi rms that fi financial statements for each fi financial develops and recommends to the board the Groups risk management and internal period which give a true and fair view of a set of corporate governance principles compliance and control systems are the state of affairs of the Group as at the applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has operating effi ciently and effectively end of the fi financial period and of the profi t a Nominations committee, information in all material respects.
or loss and cash fl ows for that period.
This about which is set out on page 98.
This includes preparing fi financial statements in Disclosure controls and procedures committee does not develop corporate accordance with UK company law which governance principles for the boards Management, with the participation of give a true and fair view of the state of approval.
The board itself performs this the chief executive and chief fi financial the Companys affairs, and preparing task and approves the Groups overall offi cer, has evaluated the effectiveness of a Remuneration report which includes system of governance and internal controls.
the design and operation of the Groups the information required by Regulation disclosure controls and procedures as of 11, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium the end of the period covered by this report Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and have concluded that these disclosure and Reports Regulations 2008 and the controls and procedures were effective at Australian Corporations Act 2001. a reasonable assurance level.
The directors are responsible for maintaining Compliance statements proper accounting records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and the The Code Australian Corporations Act 2001.
They have a By virtue of its UK listing, Rio Tinto is general responsibility for taking such steps as required to state how it has applied the are reasonably open to them to safeguard the principles set out in Section 1 of the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect Code and which relate to its directors, fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are remuneration, accountability and audit and also responsible for ensuring that appropriate relations with shareholders.
This Annual systems are in place to maintain and preserve report provides a statement to satisfy that the integrity of the Groups website.
Rio Tinto is also required to in the UK governing the preparation and disclose whether it has complied with the dissemination of fi financial statements may provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code differ from current and future legislation in and to provide an explanation where it does other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the not.
Rio Tinto confi rms that it has continued to comply fully with the detailed provisions auditors does not involve consideration of such of Section 1 of the Code throughout 2009. developments and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes, should ASX Principles any be made, to the fi financial statements after The Listing Rules of the ASX require they are made available on the website.
Rio Tinto to report the extent to which The directors, senior executives, senior it complies with the good practice fi financial managers and other members of recommendations in the ASX Principles staff who are required to exercise judgement and the reasons for any non compliance.
in the course of the preparation of the Rio Tinto confi rms that it has continued fi financial statements are required to conduct to comply fully with the ASX Principles themselves with integrity and honesty and throughout 2009. in accordance with the ethical standards of their profession and or business.
