Corporate Governance This section of the report deals with Code Compliance Statement deploying appropriate accounting how the Board and its Committees All current serving executive directors have policies within the framework of IFRS discharge their duties and how we apply a one year notice period in their service and ensuring these are consistently the principles in the UKs Combined contracts Code provision B.
1.6. applied: Code on Corporate Governance June Currently there are three independent making judgements and preparing 2008 edition the Code.
Here you will non-executives as accepted by the Code estimates that are reasonable and find detailed statements concerning our on the Board and the Board Committees.
prudent: compliance with the provisions of the They are IG King, A Walker and JE operating within the guidelines of all Code.
The role that Board Committees Nicholas A.
As Rotork p. l. c. is the disclosure advice provided by play in UK corporate governance is very considered a large company by the Code UK and international statute: significant and certain responsibilities it is recognised that full compliance A.
3.2 disclosing the business is a going need to be overseen by directors who currently would require one further concern: are independent of the activities they independent non-executive to be maintaining robust assurance are required to oversee.
appointed so that half the Board excluding processes and controls over our the Chairman comprise independent financial reporting procedures Set out below is a commentary on how non-executive directors.
Subject to the extending these principles to half the Company applies the main and matter of the number of independent yearly reports and other reports in supporting principles of the Code, non-executives referred to in this the public domain.
copies of which are available from the paragraph, the Company considers that it FRC website www.
uk, applicable complies with the provisions of the Code.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the to the accounting period applying to system of internal control and risk this Report and Accounts.
Specific Internal Control management annually C. 2.1 in disclosures required within the Board members recognise their accordance with the latest Turnbull provisions of the Code are also made responsibilities to ensure that the statutory guidance and the Code.
The review covers within this section.
requirements to deliver balanced and financial, operational, compliance and risk understandable assessments of the management controls.
The role of Companys position are achieved.
management is to implement and maintain The Board is satisfied that these the internal control and risk management responsibilities are met by using the systems.
The system of internal control is financial systems and applying the designed to reduce but cannot eliminate regulations described below, supported the risks of failure to meet business by our system of internal control.
Internal control therefore can only provide reasonable but not absolute This was achieved by: assurance in meeting such business using an appropriate system of objectives or against material accounting records, capable of misstatement or loss.
operating with reasonable accuracy and in compliance with local and The processes that are used by the Board international financial and legal to review the effectiveness of this system reporting requirements.
The basis of internal control include the following used to prepare our Group financial C. 2.1 : statements is International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as During the year the Audit Committee: adopted by the European Union.
Monitored and reviewed the The Company financial statements effectiveness of internal audit activities: and Directors Remuneration Report Reviewed and monitored external are prepared in accordance with auditor independence and objectivity applicable law and United Kingdom and the effectiveness of the audit Generally Accepted Accounting process: Standards: Considered reports from management, using IFRSs to ensure a true and fair internal and external audit on the view of the state of affairs of the Group system of internal financial control is given, including our profit or loss for and any material control weaknesses: the period: 32 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Received reports on health & safety Senior managers with responsibility across Internal financial audits are undertaken and environmental issues: all functions participate in the risk on a regular basis by a selected group of Discussed with management the range management process that identifies any accountants drawn from head office and of actions taken on problem areas for new key risks facing the Groups across the divisional businesses and the business identified by Board businesses, evaluates them and regeographic centres.
All these accountants members or in the internal and external evaluates those key risks already identified have received relevant and specific training audit reports.
Their deliberations are in internal audit, best practice and control reported to the Audit Committee and procedures.
Additionally: Board by the Group Finance Director who The Board receives copies of the is responsible for the risk management Work will continue to further embed minutes of all Audit Committee matrix.
The process is based on senior internal control and risk management in meetings and a briefing on all Audit managers detailed knowledge and the operations of the business and to Committee meetings by the Committee understanding of key risks within and further enhance and add to the relevant Chairman: external to the business based on formal processes.
The Board reviews the role of management information and reports and insurances in managing risk across the their interaction and daily dealings with The Board Group: those reporting directly to them, their The Board currently has eight members The Board regularly receives written colleagues and external parties.
The comprising: the Chairman, the three and oral reports from management on process includes separate exercises to independent non-executive directors as all aspects of production, operations, identify and evaluate key risks at divisional accepted by the Code, and four executive financial and risk management matters.
level by each Divisional Board.
divisional key risks are then collated and Prior to the year end the full Board, considered for Group materiality.
They are The Companys Articles of Association following detailed consideration by the then evaluated formally at a Group risk provide that one third of the directors shall Audit Committee, formally reviews the review exercise attended by all members retire from office by rotation at each effectiveness of the Groups system of of the Divisional Boards and the Rotork Annual General Meeting AGM.
The non-executive Additionally new directors are subject to directors are also invited to attend.
The election by shareholders at the first Risk Management output of that meeting identifies risks opportunity after their appointment A.
A continuous process for identifying, with weightings for likelihood and In line with the Code guidance, nonevaluating and managing the significant Group impact.
The principal risks and executive directors are normally appointed risks faced by the Group continued to be uncertainties facing the Group are for an initial term of three years, which is applied and developed during the year commented on in the Business Review then reviewed and extended for up to a under review and operated up to the date section of this Annual Report & Accounts.
further two three year periods A.
On of approval of the Annual Report & appointment directors receive a suitable Accounts.
There is a clear division of responsibility approved by the Board in writing between the Chairman, RC Lockwood, and the Chief Directors Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings A.
1.2 Executive, PI France, that ensures that Board Audit Remuneration Nomination there is a balance of power and authority Director Meeting Committee Committee Committee between the running of the Board and the 1 1 Peter France 8 3 3 1 executive responsibility for the running of 1 the Companys business A.
IG King Robert Slater 8 3 N A N A is the current senior independent nonGraham Ogden 7 N A N A N A executive director A.
A subRobert Arnold 8 N A N A N A committee of the Nomination Committee 1 1 comprising of the Chairman and Chief Roger Lockwood 8 3 3 1 Executive is currently undertaking a search John Nicholas 8 3 3 1 selection process for an additional Ian King 8 3 3 1 non-executive director with the assistance Alex Walker 6 2 2 - of an external search consultant.
Prior to the search process, the Committee gave 1 by invitation consideration to the balance of skills, Attendance at Board and scheduled committee meetings is shown above.
ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33 Corporate Governance continued knowledge and competence on the internal control and risk management, account of trends in the questionnaire Board and in the light of this settled on executive director remuneration, corporate responses as well as individual points.
a description of the role and capabilities governance matters including Board and This questionnaire was developed and for the appointment.
Committee performance appraisals and enhanced following feedback in previous Board and Committee membership.
The evaluations to focus on those matters that There are usually at least seven meetings directors also have powers to issue and the Chairman considered were of most of the Board which take place throughout buy back the Companys shares conferred interest to Board members following the year A.
1.1. annually by the shareholders at the AGM.
The results and The Board regularly considers and analysis including the main findings of the During the year Board meetings are discusses future strategy, following evaluation were, following the scheduled at manufacturing sites other submissions by management, at Board questionnaire and interviews, reported to than the Companys headquarters in Bath.
meetings and, on occasion, separate the Board by the Chairman.
Appropriate This allows, in particular, non-executive strategy meetings.
The non-executive action will be taken on the findings during directors to meet management at these directors constructively challenge and help the following year and then re-evaluated sites and receive presentations from them.
develop proposals on strategy at those at the next annual evaluation A.
During the year under review the Board meetings.
The decisions which are left to visited and held Board meetings at its management are all those related to the Nomination Committee manufacturing sites in Melle, Germany successful operation and management of Responsibilities and Losser, Holland.
The Board also the Companys business and in Reviewing regularly the composition of visited the Spanish sales and service implementing the commercial strategy the Board and making facilities in Bilbao.
within the limits set by the Board annually recommendations to the Board on any for overall operational budgets and capital desired changes: The Chairman ensures through the expenditure A.
Planning for the orderly succession of Company Secretary, that the Board new directors to the Board including, Agenda and all relevant information The Chairman ensures that meetings of identifying and nominating for the is provided to the Board sufficiently in non-executives without the executives Boards approval suitable candidates advance of meetings.
The Chairman and present are held A.
All directors have to fill non-executive vacancies: Company Secretary discuss the Agenda access to the advice and services of the Recommending to the Board the ahead of every meeting.
At meetings the Company Secretary and through him they membership of Board Committees.
Chairman ensures that all directors are can request and obtain independent able to make an effective contribution professional advice at the Companys Composition throughout meetings and every director expense where they judge it necessary to The Nomination Committees members is encouraged to participate and provide discharge their responsibilities as directors during the year under review were RC opinions for each Agenda item.
The Company maintains Lockwood who chairs the Committee, Chairman always seeks to achieve appropriate directors and officers A Walker, IG King, JE Nicholas, and PI unanimous decisions of the Board insurance cover A.
The Nomination Committee following due discussion of Agenda items.
comprises three independent directors, The Schedule of Reserved Matters details Share Capital the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
those matters specifically reserved for Information on the Companys share A majority of the members of the Board decision.
The types of decision capital is provided on page 43 of the Nomination Committee are therefore which are reserved for Board decision Directors Report.
independent non-executive directors as relate to matters which cannot, or the accepted by the Code A.
The Terms Board considers should not, be delegated Performance Evaluation of Reference of the Nomination Committee to the Chief Executive and executive A formal process for performance can be accessed on the Companys management.
They include approval of evaluation of the Board, its Committees website in the Investors section under Group commercial strategy and and individual directors takes place Corporate Governance Committees A.
4.1. succession planning, approval of Group annually.
For 2009, the evaluation took the annual operating and capital expenditure form of an initial questionnaire prepared in Activities of the Nomination Committee budgets and recommendations for conjunction with external consultants during the Year payment of the final proposed dividend covering a wide range of Board related A major part of the work of the Committee and decisions for interim dividends and matters.
The responses to the during the year involved the appointment dividend policy, approval of the Annual questionnaire were then considered by the of a new Group Finance Director to take Report & Accounts and announcements of Chairman, who then conducted individual effect from 1st April 2010.
Having final and interim results, ensuring sound interviews with the Directors taking identified a suitable internal candidate 34 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance the Nomination Committee arranged Agenda is reviewed at each meeting and The Committee discusses the nature and appropriate external assessments to be ensures that all matters within the Audit scope of the audit with the external auditor undertaken of his suitability for the post Committees Terms of Reference during before the audit commences and reviews as well as face to face meetings with all the year are appropriately covered.
All steps taken by the Auditor to respond to members of the Nomination Committee published financial information is reviewed regulatory requirements.
In making the and recommended for Board approval by appointment the Board took due account the Committee.
The matter of auditor independence is of the balance of skills, knowledge and considered by the Committee.
The Auditor experience on the Board A.
During the year the Committee actively does provide non-audit services.
The Audit reviews the actions and judgements of Committee has approved a written policy Audit Committee management in relation to the Groups for non-audit work conducted by the Main Responsibilities financial statements, Business Review, Auditor.
Whenever a non-audit work Reviewing the effectiveness of the preliminary and interim announcements instruction excluding tax advice exceeds Companys financial reporting, internal before their submission to the Board with 10,000 in fee value the Finance Director control policies and procedures for the the Committees recommendations for must clear the instruction in advance with identification, assessment and approval or otherwise.
If nonreporting of risk: audit instructions in aggregate exceed Monitoring the role and effectiveness The internal audit function is undertaken 40,000 in any year then the excess must of the internal audit function: by members of the Groups finance be approved on an item by item basis by Keeping the relationship with the departments who all have other distinct the Audit Committee Chairman.
For auditors under review, including the posts.
Further detail is provided in the significant general consulting projects Terms of Engagement and fees, and Internal Control section.
The Finance more than one service delivery provider their independence: Director is also Head of Internal Audit.
Categories of Monitoring the integrity of the This method of internal audit is reviewed non-audit work provided by the Auditor are Companys financial statements: annually by the Committee.
The set out in note 8, on page 61.
Tax advice Reviewing significant financial Committee remains satisfied with the provided by the Auditor substantially reporting issues and judgements.
arrangements which ensure a relates to compliance matters C. 3.7. comprehensive internal audit programme During the year under review the JE Nicholas was Chairman of the is undertaken across the Groups extensive Committee whilst reviewing the non-audit Committee throughout the year.
The other worldwide operations annually C. 3.5. work of the auditor policy added a members of the Committee during the year provision requiring any tax project with a were A Walker and IG King.
There were The Committee reviews internal control value in excess of 50,000 to be submitted therefore at all times throughout the year and risk management procedures to the Audit Committee for approval.
three independent non-executive directors including fraud risk management during who were members of the Audit the year.
It reviews the annual internal During the year the Committee introduced Committee C. 3.1.
The Board is satisfied audit plan and resourcing.
The results and a new policy on employment of external that at least one member of the significant findings of all internal audits auditor staff.
Under the policy no member Committee, JE Nicholas, has recent and are reported to the Committee in detailed of the external audit team including relevant financial experience having narrative and tabular formats.
Managements partners, directors, managers and staff recently served as a Finance Director of responsiveness to internal audit may be recruited for a period of two years a large listed company.
He is also a recommendations is reviewed.
Internal following association with the Companys member of the Financial Reporting Review audit performance and effectiveness is audit.
Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
The key Group risks and The Finance Director, Chief Executive, mitigating controls are also submitted Within the Audit Committees Terms Chairman and the external auditors to the Audit Committee for review.
of Reference is a requirement for the normally attend meetings and there is a Committee to assess the independence meeting at least once a year between the The Committee considers Group health of the external auditor ensuring key Committee and the external auditors at & safety performance data at each partners are rotated at appropriate which management is not present.
Committee meeting and receives regular intervals and to ensure that the provision reports from the Rotork Management of non-audit services does not impair the Activities of the Audit Committee during Board Divisional Director responsible for external auditors independence or the Year implementation of health & safety practice objectivity.
This assessment was The Committee meets at least three times and procedures.
undertaken by the Committee during a year.
An annual Rolling Audit Committee the year.
ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35 Corporate Governance continued The Terms of Reference of the Audit Board to the Companys major Committee which are reviewed at least shareholders offering meetings with the annually by the Committee are available non-executive directors and requesting to view on the Companys website www.
shareholders to confirm they are content rotork.
com in the Investors section under with current Board level contact with the Corporate Governance - Committees Company and communication to nonC.
The Chairman attends the preliminary and interim announcements There were no changes to the Terms of in London with the Chief Executive and Reference in the year under review.
The Finance Director and is available to meet Committee considers the appointment of fund managers and analysts on those the Auditor C. 3.6 and recommends to days.
the Board, the audit fees for shareholder approval at the AGM.
Individual shareholders have an opportunity to put questions to the The work undertaken by the Committee Chairman at the AGM and individual in discharging its internal control shareholder enquiries are dealt with responsibilities is described under the throughout the year by the Company Internal Control section above.
Remuneration Committee At the AGM all proxy votes are counted The work of the Remuneration Committee and except in the event of a poll being is described in the Remuneration Report called the balance for and against the on pages 37 to 42.
The Chairman and resolution and the number of votes Chief Executive were invited to and did withheld is displayed for shareholders, attend all meetings but both were not in after it has been dealt with on a show of attendance when their own remuneration hands.
Prior to the AGM the Company and fees respectively were considered.
Secretary reports to the Board on the [B.
2] results of the proxy returns and on the comments and analysis undertaken by Relations with Shareholders voting agencies.
A separate resolution is Communication with shareholders is given prepared on each substantially separate high priority.
All members of the Board issue D. 2.1.
The Chairman of the Audit, receive copies of all analysts reports of Remuneration and Nomination which the Company is made aware.
The Committees are available to answer Board receives non-attributable comments questions at the AGM and all directors from analyst meetings and shareholder attend D. 2.3.
The Notice of AGM and meetings after both interim and final related papers are sent to shareholders at results D. 1.1 and other updates from its least 20 working days before the meeting Corporate advisers.
The Chief Executive D. 2.4. reports at each Board meeting upon his meetings with analysts, fund managers and shareholders D. 1.2.
The Company Secretary has written on behalf of the 36 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009
