qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 49 Management & Governance Corporate Governance Committee Combined Code To ensure the effective management of committees appraised about the In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman the Groups structure and organisation implications of changes to the Combined and all the other Non-Executive Directors during a time when expectations about Code and other developments in the field are independent from the Group.
The the nature and standards of Corporate of corporate governance.
The work of the Board is accountable to the Companys Governance have been evolving rapidly, Corporate Governance Committee is, shareholders for good governance and the RPS has established a Corporate therefore, reflected in the activities of the statement set out below describes how Governance Committee.
This comprises Audit, Nomination and Remuneration the principles identified in the Combined the Chairman, Chief Executive and 49 Committees as well as the structure, Code 2008 already referred to above are Company Secretary: other Directors are composition and operation of the Group applied by the Company.
The Corporate consulted as necessary.
This includes the production of the Governance Committee has reviewed reviews issues as they arise and is also policies described in the Corporate RPS performance against the responsible for keeping the Board and its Responsibility Report pages 31 to 34. recommendations in the Code.
In summary the position is as follows: Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should meet regularly to discharge its duties.
1.1 Compliant 36-37 schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The annual report should include a statement of how the Board operates, including a high level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the Board and which are delegated to management.
The Annual Report should identify the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior A.
1.2 Compliant 39-48 Director and Chairman and Independent Non-Executive members of Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It should also set out the number of meetings held and individual attendance.
The Chairman should hold meetings with Non-Executive Directors without A.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors should meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of A.
1.4 Compliant 37 the Company or a proposed action these concerns should be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation these concerns should be provided in a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal A.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be split.
2.1 Compliant 37 responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman on appointment should be independent.
2.2 Compliant 36 The Board should identify in the annual report each Non-Executive Director it A.
3.1 Compliant 39-48 considers to be independent.
At least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive A.
3.2 Compliant 36 Directors determined by the board to be independent.
Since the resignation of A. Troup in November 2009 the Board has been compliant with this provision.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 50 Corporate Governance continued Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be A.
3.3 Compliant 37-38 the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
There should be a Nomination Committee.
A majority of the members should be A.
The Chairman or independent non-executive director should chair the committee unless it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
The Nomination Committee should make available its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee should evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and A.
4.2 Compliant 59-60 experience on the Board and evaluate the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
50 On appointment of a Chairman, the Nomination Committee should prepare a job A.
A Chairmans other significant commitments should be disclosed to the Board before appointment and included in the Annual Report.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors should be made A.
4.4 Compliant 56 available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The annual report should describe the work of the Nomination Committee, including A.
4.6 Compliant 59-60 processes it has used in relation to Board appointments.
New Directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
5.1 Compliant 37 Shareholders should be offered the opportunity to meet the new Non-Executive.
All Directors should have access to independent professional advice.
5.2 Compliant 37 Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors should have access to the advice and services of the Company A.
5.3 Compliant 37 Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board should state in the Annual Report how it evaluates the performance of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 37-38 its committees and its individual Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director should be responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman.
All Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General A.
7.1 Compliant Notice Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more of than three years.
The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election should Meeting be accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any other relevant information.
The Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to A.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Performance-related elements of remuneration should form a significant B.
1.1 Compliant 52 proportion of the total remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
Share options should not be offered at a discount.
1.2 Compliant 55 Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should reflect the time commitment and B.
1.3 Compliant 56 responsibilities of the role and should not include share options.
The Remuneration Committee should consider what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Compliant 56 the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination.
Notice or contract periods of Executive Directors should be one year or less.
1.6 Compliant 56 A Remuneration Committee should be established with at least three Independent B.
The Remuneration Committee should make available its terms of reference.
2.1 Compliant 53 Following the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director in January 2009 the Committee has been compliant with this provision.
Report and Accounts 2009 23846 DRAFT 27 Mar19 back.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 51 Management & Governance Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Remuneration Committee should set remuneration for all executives.
2.2 Compliant 52-56 The Remuneration Committee should recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Board should determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
2.3 Compliant 56 Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive B.
2.4 Compliant 55 schemes as defined in the Listing Rules and significant changes to existing schemes.
The Directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing accounts C. 1.1 Compliant 65-67 and there should be a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors should report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 65 The Board should conduct at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups C. 2.1 Compliant 52 & 59 system of internal controls and should report to shareholders that they have done so.
51 The Board should establish an Audit Committee with at least three members C. 3.1 Non-Compliant who should all be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
At least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The role and responsibility of the Audit Committee should be set out in written terms C. 3.2 3.3 Compliant 58-59 of reference.
This should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Audit Committee should review arrangements by which staff of the Company C. 3.4 Compliant 58 may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an C. 3.5 Compliant 59 internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation C. 3.6 Compliant 59 on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
If the Board does not accept the Audit Committees recommendation it should C3.6 Compliant n a include in its annual report a statement explaining why the Board take a different position.
The annual report should explain to shareholders how independence is C. 3.7 Compliant 59 safeguarded if the auditor provides non audit services.
The Chairman should ensure that the views of the shareholders are disclosed to the D. 1.1 Compliant 34 Board as a whole.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the shareholders.
The Board should state in their Annual Report the steps they have taken to ensure Board D. 1.2 Compliant 34 members develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their Company.
The Company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantially D. 2.1 Compliant Notice separate issue and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM relating of to the report and accounts.
Meeting The Company should count all proxy votes and indicate the level of proxies D. 2.2 Compliant lodged on each resolution, and the balance for and against the resolution and the number of abstentions.
The Company should ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees should attend the D. 2.3 Compliant 34 AGM in order to be available to answer questions.
The Company should arrange for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to D. 2.4 Compliant Notice of shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Meeting The Board has been satisfied that the two current members of the Audit Committee have sufficient expertise to ensure that the affairs of that Committee are conducted in a professional and effective manner.
Notwithstanding this a process is in train to recruit a new Non-Executive Director who will serve as an additional member of this Committee.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 52 Corporate Governance continued Communication Financial reporting: A detailed formal 1 The Company attaches great importance budgeting process for all Group to communication with its shareholders businesses culminates in an annual Group Alan Hearne and other stakeholders.
The full report budget which is approved by the Board.
1 Fixed 34.4% and accounts is made available to all The results for the Group are reported 2 Variable 65.6% shareholders and to other parties who monthly against this budget to the Board.
2 have an interest in the Groups Financial and accounting principles and performance on the Groups website.
internal financial controls assurance: In addition the Companys website 1 Compliance with these is reviewed as provides up-to-date information about requested.
A detailed financial and its organisation, the services it offers Peter Dowen accounting controls manual sets out the 1 Fixed 42.7% and newsworthy subjects.
The Company principles of and minimum standards 2 Variable 57.3% also responds to numerous letters required by the Board for effective and enquiries from shareholders and 2 financial control.
52 others with an interest in the Group.
Capital investment:The Company has There is regular dialogue with individual 1 clearly defined guidelines for capital institutional shareholders as well as expenditure.
These include annual budgets, presentations after the interim and annual Andrew Troup detailed appraisal and review procedures, 1 Fixed 42.9% results and at other events.
All 2 Variable 57.1% levels of authority and due diligence shareholders have the opportunity to requirements where businesses are ask questions at the Companys Annual 2 being acquired.
Remuneration Report 1 Audit and internal controls The Directors who were members of The respective responsibilities of the the Remuneration Committee throughout Gary Y oung Directors and the independent auditors 1 Fixed 39.6% the year were: Karen McPherson and 2 Variable 60.4% in connection with the accounts are John Bennett.
Roger Devlin joined the explained on pages 65-67 and the Committee during the year.
2 statement of the Directors in respect The Chairman and Chief Executive have of going concern appears on page 65. assisted the Remuneration Committee in 1 The Board has procedures in place their deliberations on other Directors as recommended in the guidance in remuneration.
The Company Secretary is in Phil Williams The Combined Code on Corporate 1 Fixed 39.5% attendance at the meeting to provide the 2 Variable 60.5% Governance and Turnbull: Guidance on committee with any additional advice that Internal Controls.
These have been in 2 is required.
place for the whole year and up to the The Remuneration Committee indicated date of approval of the financial statements.
Analysis of fixed versus performance in its 2008 Report that it was reviewing The risk management policies are related pay for Executive Directors 2009 the operation of the Companys executive described on pages 25-29.
Notes: annual bonus arrangements and long-term The Board is responsible for the Groups incentives upon the expiry of the Fixed compensation comprises: system of internal control which is shareholder approval for the RPS Group Basic salary designed to provide reasonable but not Plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP Benefits absolute assurance against material in the context of its whole remuneration Variable compensation comprises: misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews policy in line with best practice.
Maximum Bonus Potential from time to time the effectiveness of the The Remuneration Committee started Face Value of LTIP Awards system of internal control from the consultation process with the information provided by management and Companys major shareholders in the Groups external auditors.
The key November 2009 on new proposals.
It is procedures that the Directors have intended that the consultation will be established to provide effective internal completed in the first quarter of 2010. financial controls are as follows: Report and Accounts 2009 23846 DRAFT 27 Mar19 back.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 53 Management & Governance Remuneration Committee - ensure that provisions regarding opportunity to earn competitive levels of Terms of Reference disclosure of remuneration, including compensation provided performance pensions, as set out in the Directors is delivered, whilst remaining within the the Committee has been delegated Remuneration Report Regulations range of compensation offered by responsibility by the Board to 2002 and the Code, are fulfilled: similar companies.
determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for Directors remuneration is the subject of be aware of and advise on any the remuneration of the Executive annual review in accordance with this major changes in employee benefit Directors and Senior Employees of structures throughout the Company policy.
Additionally, it focuses on the the Company: the remuneration of or Group: contribution to the continued long term Non-Executive Directors is a matter growth and success of the Company and be exclusively responsible for for the executive members of the seeks to align their interests with those of establishing the selection criteria, Board who take advice from the the Company, employees and shareholders.
selecting, appointing and setting independent consultants.
No Director the terms of reference for any The charts on page 52 demonstrate the or manager is involved in any remuneration consultants who proportion of the maximum potential 53 decisions as to their own advise the Committee: compensation which is performance remuneration: related for each Executive Director.
meet as required during the year: and within the terms of the agreed The Remuneration Committee appointed report the frequency of, and policy, determine the total individual and received wholly independent advice attendance by members at, remuneration package of each on executive compensation from Remuneration Committee meetings in Executive Director including, where  PwC.
the annual report see page 48. appropriate, bonuses, benefits, and long-term incentive allocations: Base salary Remuneration policy the quorum necessary for the When determining the salary of the The Remuneration Committees policy for transaction of business is two Executive Directors the Remuneration 2009 was to set the main elements of the members.
A duly convened meeting Committee takes into consideration: remuneration package in order to reflect: of the Committee at which a quorum the performance of the Group as the performance of the individual is present shall be competent to a whole: concerned: exercise all or any of the authorities, the performance of the individual powers and discretions vested in or the performance of the business Executive Director both for the exercisable by the Committee: unit s for which he she is responsible: Group and the businesses under determine the policy for and scope of in the case of Group directors, the his control: pension arrangements for each performance of the Group as a pay and conditions throughout the Executive Director: whole: and Company: and determine targets for any the relevant market s for executives the market conditions in the sector performance-related pay and share and the terms and conditions the Group operates in.
schemes operated by the Company: prevailing in those markets.
The results of this exercise are then in determining such packages and The Committee recognises that the main benchmarked against an independently arrangements, give due regard to the competitors of the Group and, therefore, established group of listed companies.
comments and recommendations of comparators for remuneration are found the Combined Code as well as the outside the group of companies that are This group is identified independently Listing Rules of the Financial Services listed.
In consequence, the Committee by PwC.
Authority and associated guidance: needs to reflect that in its deliberations The basis of selection of the group is: including RPS market leading position in a ensure that contractual terms on companies within the same sector as number of those markets.
termination, and any payments made, the Company: and are fair to the individual and the The Committee is, in addition, mindful of Company, that failure is not rewarded companies with a range of market trends and best practice amongst listed and that the duty to mitigate loss is capitalisations such that the Company companies of a similar size in the Support fully recognised, in line with the sits within the middle of the Services sector.
statement of best practice in the comparator group.
This group is The policy is designed to attract, retain and ABI Guidelines: reviewed on an annual basis.
motivate individuals by providing the rpsgroup.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 54 Corporate Governance continued The earnings per share growth targets that applied in 2009 are set out below: The companies comprising the comparator % Earnings per Share % Bonus Payable group used in the last review were % Earnings per Share % Bonus Payable Growth Inclusive of RPI for EPS Element Growth Inclusive of RPI for EPS Element as follows: 20 70.00 5 14.00 Aggreko Plc 21 72.45 6 23.10 Alfred McAlpine Plc 22 74.90 7 28.70 23 77.35 Amec Plc 8 34.30 24 79.80 9 39.90 Ashtead Group Plc 25 82.25 10 45.50 Atkins WS PLC 26 84.70 11 47.95 Babock International Group 27 87.15 12 50.40 BPP Holdings PLC 28 89.60 13 52.85 BSS Group PLC 29 92.05 14 55.30 Bunzl PLC 30 94.50 15 57.75 Connaught Plc 31 96.95 16 60.20 32 99.40 17 62.65 Davis Service Group PLC 54 32.2 100.00 18 65.10 fide La Rue Plc 19 67.55 Diploma Plc Electrocomponents Plc EPS figures are based upon the satisfied in 2009 and therefore no Filtrona PLC Companys adjusted figures under IAS 33. bonuses were payable in respect of this Galiform Plc The EPS performance targets were not element of the annual bonus.
Therefore no bonuses major shareholders about new incentive Shanks Group Plc were payable to Executive Directors in arrangements for 2010.
SIG PLC respect of 2009 under any elements of Speedy Hire PLC SThree PLC the bonus plan.
Travis Perkins PLC White Y oung Green PLC WSP Group PLC Long-term Incentives The following table and paragraphs summarise the operation of the Companys LTIP: 2006 Grant 2007 Grant 2008 Grant 2009 Grant The Remuneration Committee accepted % of Salary % of Salary % of Salary % of Salary Executive Condition Condition Condition Condition a recommendation from the Executive Directors that base salaries of the latter Maximum Annual Grant 100 100 100 100 would not be increased as at 1 January Chief Executive 80 100 100 100 2009.
Finance Director 60 80 80 80 Executive Directors 60 80 60-80 60-80 Performance bonus Performance Condition EPS Growth EPS Growth EPS Growth EPS Growth see table below see table below see table below see table below The tables set out: Status Released in full Based on current Release Date Release Date maximum Bonus Potential for on 30 March performance it is 8 April 2011 31 March 2012 2009 as the EPS anticipated that Executive Directors for 2009. performance the grant will be condition was released in full on bonus targets which applied for 2009. satisfied see 14 March 2010 table below Report and Accounts 2009 23846 DRAFT 27 Mar19 back.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 55 Management & Governance 100% of the shares subject to the third Full details of the Directors LTIP awards The Directors individual share options grant were released on 30 March 2009. are set out on page 64.
The LTIP was are detailed in the Directors report on The following shares were awarded at the approved by shareholders in 2004 for a page 63. grant price of 1.84: period of five years.
Benefits Name Number of ordinary shares For 2003 and earlier years long-term The Executive Directors participate in incentives consisted of annual grants of Alan Hearne 145,652 a Company money purchase defined options.
The Remuneration Committee Gary Young 55,434 contribution scheme for which the set out the level of the option grant to Andrew Troup 60,326 Employer Contribution is 15%.
the Executive Directors of the Company Peter Dowen 68,478 at the median level.
Executive Directors can also participate Phil Williams 57,065 in the all-employee Inland Revenue Share The maximum annual grant under the Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP gives The market price of the shares on release Executive Share Option Scheme was 75% employees the opportunity to purchase was 1.4659. of salary.
Options were not issued at a up to 1,500 of shares a year with the discount.
The Performance Conditions 55 The performance conditions attached to Company providing one additional attached to the Share Options granted to the release of LTIP shares related to EPS matching share for every employee the Directors under the Executive Share growth is as follows: purchased share.
Total participation Option Schemes are that: in the SIP scheme across the Group is % Average Basic EPS % of LTIP Ordinary Options may only be 35% of eligible employees.
Growth p. a. above RPI Award Released exercised if, over any three year The Executive Directors also receive the 3 12.5 measurement period of the Company, following additional benefits: 425 beginning no earlier than the financial 5 37.5 healthcare: year during which the option is 650 granted, the percentage growth in life assurance and dependants 7 62.5 earnings per share exceeds the pensions: 875 growth in the Retail Prices Index over 9 87.5 disability schemes: and the same period by at least 3% per 10 100 annum, being 9% for the three year company car or car allowance.
period: and There will be straight line release Shareholding guideline Super Options may only be exercised between these points.
Shareholdings across the Executive if, over any five year measurement The Remuneration Committee will Directors and Senior Executives are not period of the Company, beginning no determine the satisfaction of the uniform.
Therefore, three years ago the earlier than the financial year during performance conditions in respect of both Remuneration Committee introduced which the option is granted, the the LTIP and historic options.
The EPS shareholding guidelines to encourage longpercentage growth in earnings per figure used by the Company will be the term share ownership by the Executives.
share exceeds the growth in the Retail audited basic EPS figure disclosed in the The guidelines encourage Executive Price Index over the same period by Companys Financial Statements.
at least 6% per annum, being 30% for Directors to build up and retain a holding The performance condition comparing the five year period.
The Remuneration Committee increases in earnings per share against necessary for the share price to rise believes this forms a stable incentive pay inflation was chosen in order to ensure platform on which to build a responsible over both the three and five year that LTIP awards and options would only periods to make the exercise relationship between shareholders, the be received against a background of a worthwhile.
sustained real increase in the financial Options are not able to be exercised if It is intended that the Executives performance of the Company.
performance is below target, and there is will be able to build up the necessary The grant of awards for 2009 is set out in shareholding by their participation in no reward for below target performance.
the following table: The performance conditions are the Companys long term incentive plans.
If Shares Market value measured at the end of the three and five the shareholding requirement is not Name Grantedof shares year holding periods applying to the proportionately satisfied the Remuneration Alan Hearne 275,261 143.5p Committee may take this into account relevant grants of Options.
There is no Gary Young 111,498 143.5p re-testing of the performance conditions.
when determining the levels of future Andrew Troup 83,624 143.5p The Directors are required to refund to awards under the LTIP.
Peter Dowen 95,331 143.5p the Company all National Insurance Phil Williams 156,098 143.5p contributions payable at exercise.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 56 Corporate Governance continued Recommended shareholding Details of the Directors service contracts The fees paid to the Chairman and each Name requirement as percentage of salary are included in the table below.
Non-Executive Director are detailed on Alan Hearne 150% page 39 and pages 44-47.
The table below confirms that the only Gary Young 100% event on the occurrence of which the Details of the terms of appointment of Peter Dowen 100% Company is liable to make a payment to the serving Non-Executive Directors are Phil Williams 100% Executive Directors is on cessation of set out in the table below: employment.
Unexpired term Service contracts of contract as Potential at 31 Dec payment in event The Companys policy on the duration of Name Initial Contract date2009 months of Company service contracts is that: Potential takeover Brook Land September 1997 Annual Name termination payment or liquidation Review Executive Directors should have Alan Hearne 12 months notice Nil Roger Devlin April 2002 16 rolling service contracts terminable on Peter Dowen 12 months notice Nil Karen McPherson June 2005 17 no more than one years notice Andrew Troup 12 months notice Nil John Bennett June 2006 29 served by the Company or the 56 Gary Young 12 months notice Nil Louise Charlton May 2008 17 Director: and Phil Williams 12 months notice Nil Non-Executive Directors are Non-Executive Directors are not entitled appointed for fixed terms of three All Directors are required to seek reto participate in the pension plan or the years, renewable on agreement of election at least once in every three years.
performance based pay schemes including both the Company and the Director.
annual bonus and share schemes.
Terms Non-Executive Directors and conditions of appointment of NonThe policy on termination payments The fees paid to the Non-Executive Executive Directors are available for is that the Company does not make Directors are determined by the Board inspection by any person at the Companys payments beyond its contractual and aim to be competitive with other fully registered office and at the AGM.
obligations, including any payment in listed companies of equivalent size and respect of notice to which a Director is complexity.
The Chairman of the Company entitled after mitigation is considered.
receives a higher fee than the other NonNone of the Directors contracts provide Executive Directors and Committee for automatic payments in excess of one Chairmen and the Senior Independent year.
None of the Directors contracts Director receive an additional payment.
Performance Graph Total shareholder return from 1st January 2005 The graph shows a comparison of 260 the total shareholder return from the Companys shares for each of the last 240 five financial years against the total 220 shareholder return for the companies comprising the FTSE All Share, the FTSE 200 All Share Support Services sector and the comparator group.
The Remuneration 180 Committee has selected these 160 benchmarks as they provide a good indication of the Companys general 140 performance.
120 100 80 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 RPS Group - Tot Return Ind FTSE All Share - Tot Return Ind FTSE All Share Support SVS - Tot Return Ind Report and Accounts 2009 23846 DRAFT 27 Mar19 back.
Remuneration for Mr Troup in 2009 is that covered up to his resignation from the Board on 5 November 2009.
Following the resignation of Mr Troup as a director and the cessation of his employment on 20 November 2009 it was agreed that the Company would, subject to an appropriate provision for mitigation, continue to pay him an amount which represents his net salary for the period which would otherwise have been his notice period being 12 months.
Directors emoluments Pensions and compensation The Executive Directors of the Company The following disclosures on Directors earned pensions benefits in a company remuneration and share incentives have money purchase defined contribution been audited as required by Part 3 of scheme apart from Phil Williams whose Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumpension benefits are in a Group Personal sized Companies and Groups Accounts Pension plan defined contribution during and Reports Regulations 2008.
above sets out details of the emoluments An Ordinary Resolution to approve this and compensation received during the report will be proposed at the Companys year by each Director.
Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2010.
Share awards This report was approved by The tables on pages 63 and 64 set out the Board on 3 March 2010. details of the audited share options and LTIPs held by each Director during the year.
A description of the terms and Signed on behalf of the Board conditions of the scheme is on on pages Karen McPherson 54-55.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 March 2010 The Company operates its share schemes within the dilution limits specified by the ABI.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 58 Corporate Governance continued The Company has in place formal Relationship between the Committee and Audit Committee whistleblowing procedures which allow the Board The Audit Committee has written terms staff of the Company to, in confidence, of reference set out below.
These are also The RPS Group Plc Board: raise concerns about possible available on the Group website.
It reviews reviews and agrees terms of reference improprieties in matters of financial the draft financial statements prior to put forward by the Audit Committee: reporting and other issues.
These submission to the Board and monitors procedures are reviewed by the Audit considers changes to the terms of and makes recommendations to the Committee and are as follows: reference when recommended by Board regarding the Groups accounting the Committee: policies and considers significant matters any employee wishing to raise a relating to internal control procedures.
concern regarding internal controls, receives prompt summary reports accounting or audit matters may do after each meeting of the Committee: The Audit Committee keeps the scope so with the Senior Non-Executive and cost effectiveness of the external is advised of matters for its attention Director, Roger Devlin, or the audit under review.
The Committee takes at other times as deemed necessary Company Secretary, Nicholas Rowe: seriously its responsibility to put in place 58 by the Committee: safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity any concerns raised will be treated in will refer matters to the Committee and independence.
It has therefore confidence, and will be investigated for its attention as necessary: adopted a policy to determine the and any action proposed reported to reviews annually the Committees circumstances in which Auditors may be the Audit Committee: and policies, practices and performance: permitted to undertake non-audit work the person raising the concern need and for the Group.
Under the terms of this not disclose their identity.
If their policy the provision of certain services are ensures that funds are available to the identity is disclosed this will not be prohibited and include those listed below: Committee for external advice when passed on by the person receiving the needed, which shall be obtained via an bookkeeping services complaint without the individuals Executive Director.
preparation of financial statements design and implementation of Committee authority Audit Committee - financial systems Terms of Reference The Committee shall have the authority to consider any matters relating to the valuation services Committee composition, capabilities financial affairs of the Group.
investment advisory, broker and and meetings The Committee shall have the authority dealing services The Committee shall comprise two to request relevant information from any general management services Independent Non-Executive Directors employee and employees shall be with a quorum of two, appointed by the Certain other services are approved up to expected to respond accordingly.
Board, all of whom possess an adequate agreed financial limits with the provision of The Committee may take external understanding of the financial management such services beyond those limits professional advice with respect to its and reporting requirements of publicly requiring approval of the Committee.
following fall within this category: The Committee shall have no executive The Board will appoint a suitably qualified taxation services responsibilities with respect to Director other than the Chairman to chair transaction support including due implementation of its recommendations.
The Company Secretary is diligence secretary to the Committee.
Committee responsibilities and duties advice relating to risk management The Committee shall meet at least twice and controls Financial matters per annum and may invite to attend: the accountancy advice and training Chief Executive and the Finance Director, The Committee shall review accounting representatives of the external auditors policies and practices used by the Group, The provision of any service at any level and anyone else who may assist the as well as information to be published to that does not fall within the above Committee from time to time.
the London Stock Exchange prior to its categories requires the approval of the submission to the Board.
Current membership: John Bennett The Committee shall ensure that the Chairman and Roger Devlin.
The The split between audit and non-audit information presented by the Group Company Secretary attends all meetings.
fees for the year under review appears on page 82.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 59 Management & Governance supports a balanced, clear and Board structure, size and composition, powers and discretions vested in or understandable view of its financial nominating candidates to the Board when exercisable by the Committee.
vacancies arise and recommending Frequency of meetings Directors who are retiring by rotation to External audit be put forward for re-election.
Although The Committee shall meet not less than The Committee shall make no directors were recruited during the once a year and at such other times as recommendations to the Board year where there is such recruitment this the Board or any member of the with respect to the appointment is undertaken through a formal, rigorous Committee shall require.
of external auditors and will take and transparent process.
steps necessary to satisfy itself about the Notice of meetings The Nomination Committees written continuing independence of relevant firms.
Meetings of the Committee shall be terms of reference are set out below: The Committee shall review the level of summoned by the Secretary of the external audit fees.
Membership Committee at the request of the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee shall review the scope of, The Committee shall be appointed by the 59 approach to and findings from external Board and shall comprise of a Chairman Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each audit work.
and at least two other members.
meeting confirming the venue, time and date together with an agenda of items to The Committee shall discuss with the A majority of members of the Committee be discussed, shall be forwarded to each external auditors any proposed changes in shall be Independent Non-Executive member of the Committee no fewer than accounting policies.
five working days prior to the date of the The Committee Chairman will liaise The Board shall appoint the Committee meeting.
As far as practical meetings shall directly with the external auditors in order Chairman.
In the absence of the be held before or after meetings of the to ensure a full understanding of any Committee Chairman and or an Main Board.
issues that arise from their work and will appointed deputy, the remaining members report to the Committee accordingly.
present shall elect one of their number to Minutes of meetings chair the meeting.
Risk management The Secretary shall minute the If a regular member is unable to act due proceedings and resolutions of all Internal controls to absence, illness or any other cause, the Committee meetings, including the names The Committee shall review the means by Chairman of the Committee may appoint of those present and in attendance.
which sound systems of internal control another Director of the Company to Minutes of Committee meetings shall be are maintained across the Group and shall serve as an alternate member having due circulated to all members of the review reports on the effectiveness of regard to maintaining the required balance Committee and to the Chairman of the those systems.
of Executive and Independent NonBoard and made available on request to Executive members.
Internal audit other members of the Board.
Care should be taken to minimise the risk The Committee shall review at least Annual General Meeting of any conflict of interest that might be annually the internal audit function seen to give rise to an unacceptable and will make appropriate The Chairman of the Committee shall influence.
Current membership: Brook recommendations to the Board.
attend the Annual General Meeting Land Chairman, Louise Charlton and prepared to respond to any shareholder Other risk management systems Karen McPherson.
questions on the Committees activities.
The Committee shall consider the The terms and conditions of appointment adequacy of other systems which help to Secretary of Non-Executive Directors should be manage the Groups exposures to damage The Company Secretary shall act as the made available for inspection by any or loss.
Secretary of the Committee and attend person at the Companys registered office all meetings.
Nomination Committee - Terms of Reference Quorum Duties The Committee meets as required, but not The quorum necessary for the transaction The Committee shall: less than once a year, and comprises three of business is two.
A duly convened Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The regularly review the structure, size and meeting of the Committee at which a Company Secretary attends all meetings.
composition of the Board and make quorum is present shall be competent to Its responsibilities include reviewing the recommendations to the Board with exercise all or any of the authorities, rpsgroup.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 60 Corporate Governance continued regard to any adjustments that are retirement by rotation provisions in deemed necessary: the Companys articles of association: prepare a description of the role and concerning any matters relating to the capabilities required for a particular continuation in office as a Director of appointment: any Director at any time: and be responsible for identifying and concerning the appointment of any nominating for the approval of the Director to Executive or other office Board candidates to fill Board other than to the positions of vacancies as and when they arise: Chairman and Chief Executive, the recommendation for which would be satisfy itself with regard to succession considered at a meeting of: planning, that the processes and plans are in place with regard to the Board all the Non-Executive Directors and senior appointments: regarding the position of Chief 60 Executive: assess and articulate the time needed to fulfil the role of Chairman, Senior all the Directors regarding the Independent Director and Nonposition of Chairman: and Executive Director, and undertake detailing items that should be an annual performance evaluation published in the Companys to ensure that all members of the Annual Report relating to the Board have devoted sufficient time activities of the Committee.
to their duties: Authority ensure on appointment that a candidate has sufficient time to The Committee is authorised to seek any undertake the role and review his information it requires from any employee commitments: and of the Company in order to perform its duties.
ensure that the Secretary on behalf of the Board has formally written to any The Committee is authorised to obtain, at appointees, detailing the role and time the Companys expense, outside legal or commitments and proposing an other professional advice on any matters induction plan produced in conjunction within its terms of reference.
Takeover Directive It shall also make recommendations to Disclosures required under the Takeover the Board: Directive are included on page 66 and with regard to the Chairman having form part of the Groups Corporate assessed every three years whether Governance report.
the present incumbent shall continue in post, taking into account the needs of continuity versus freshness of approach: as regards the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his or her specified term of office: especially when they have concluded their second term: for the continuation or not in service of any Director who has reached the age of 70: concerning the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the Report and Accounts 2009 Report and Accounts 2009
