Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance The board currently consists of the Chairman Mr Kahn : eight independent non-executive directors including Lord Fellowes, 1.
The directors report on corporate the Senior Independent Director : four non-executive directors who governance are not considered to be independent: and two executive directors Mr Mackay, the Chief Executive, and Mr Wyman, the Chief Financial The directors are committed to maintaining high standards of Officer.
Biographical information concerning each of the directors is corporate governance, which they see as fundamental to discharging set out on pages 42 and 43. their stewardship responsibilities.
The board strives to provide the right leadership, strategic oversight and control environment to produce The size and certain aspects of the composition of the board and of and sustain the delivery of value to all of the companys shareholders.
the audit, nomination and corporate accountability and risk assurance The board applies integrity, principles of good governance and committees are determined primarily by the terms of our relationship accountability throughout its activities and each director brings agreement with Altria, which was originally approved by shareholders independence of character and judgement to the role.
All of the in 2002 as part of the Miller transaction, and was amended, with members of the board are individually and collectively aware of their shareholders approval, in 2005 as part of the Bavaria transaction, and responsibilities to the companys stakeholders and the board keeps by the terms of our relationship agreement with BevCo Ltd BevCo, its performance and core governance principles under regular review.
a holding company of the Santo Domingo Group, which was approved by shareholders in 2005 as part of the Bavaria transaction.
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are currently contained in the Combined The agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a maximum Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting of 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be executive Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
directors, up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, up to two are to be non-executive directors nominated by This report describes the boards approach to corporate governance BevCo, and up to eight are to be non-executive directors appointed and explains how it applies the Combined Code.
The agreement with BevCo allows BevCo to nominate up to two non-executive directors for appointment to the board.
The board is grateful to Altria for its indulgence in permitting for 2.
Application of the Combined Code the time being the maximum number of directors allowed under the relationship agreement to be exceeded, in order to assist the The board applied the principles and provisions of the Combined company to meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
Altria Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2009, except in the has also for the time being elected not to exercise its right to following respects: nominate a third director for appointment to the board.
a for the first six weeks of the year, from 1 April to 14 May 2008, at Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their least half the board, excluding the Chairman, were not independent respective agreements to nominate one director for appointment for the purposes of the Combined Code.
In furtherance of the to the nomination committee.
BevCo has the right to nominate boards commitment to the progressive renewal of its membership, one director for appointment to the corporate accountability and two new independent directors, Ms Ramos and Mr Pieterse, were risk assurance committee CARAC although it has not exercised appointed and joined the board on 15 May 2008.
With effect from this right, and Altria has the right to nominate one director for 15 May 2008 therefore, and throughout the rest of the year to appointment to the audit committee which it has exercised.
31 March 2009, at least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, were independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The board considers eight directors Ms Doherty, Lord Fellowes, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Dr Moyo, Mr Pieterse and b the audit committee did not consist solely of independent Mr Ramaphosa to be independent for the purposes of the directors, as the committee included Mr Devitre, an Altria Group, Combined Code.
The board considers four non-executive directors Inc. Altria nominee, who is not independent for the purposes not to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code: of the Combined Code.
Mr Bible and Mr Devitre, as they are nominees of Altria, the The only non-executive directors excluding the Chairman who do companys largest shareholder: and Mr Santo Domingo and not meet the independence requirements of the Combined Code Mr Prez, as they are nominees of the Santo Domingo Group, are those four directors who were nominated by the companys major the companys second largest shareholder.
The Chairman, Mr Kahn, shareholders pursuant to agreements entered into in connection with who is a former chief executive of the company and has served transactions which were approved by the companys shareholders.
continuously on the board, or on the board of the companys The terms of these agreements which also account for the audit predecessor, since 1981 although he has been a director of the committee not consisting solely of independent directors are company only since 1999 and, as Chairman, is deemed not to described more fully below.
be independent under the Combined Code.
For ease of reference, directors independence status for Combined Code purposes is indicated in the table on page 50.
Board of directors: composition Lord Renwick of Clifton retired from the board on 31 July 2008 after nine years of distinguished service as a non-executive director.
and independence Ms Maria Ramos and Mr Rob Pieterse were appointed to the board Since the year end, a further independent non-executive director, on 15 May 2008 as independent non-executive directors, but in Dr Dambisa Moyo, has been appointed to the board.
This appointment consequence of her subsequent appointment as Group Chief enhances the independence and balance of the board, and continues Executive of ABSA Group Limited in South Africa, Ms Ramos the process of progressive renewal.
Biographical details of Dr Moyo was most regrettably unable to continue to act as a director of the are included on page 42. company and was obliged to resign from the board on 26 February 2009.
With effect from 1 June 2009, the board has appointed Dr Moyo as an additional independent non-executive director, to replace Ms Ramos.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance 49 Corporate governance continued The board continues to believe that its overall composition remains does not consider it to be in the interests of the company or appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of shareholders to require all directors who have served for nine years character and integrity of all of its directors, and the experience and or longer to retire at the same time and strongly favours ensuring skills which they bring to their duties.
continuity and stability through orderly succession.
As noted, Lord Renwick retired from the board on 31 July 2008 following nine years It is now 10 years since the company listed on the London Stock service to the board.
With the recent and unexpected resignation of Exchange.
SABMiller has been fortunate to retain the services of Ms Ramos and her replacement having been recruited very recently, several distinguished non-executive directors the Chairman, Lord the board considered that the retirement of another experienced Fellowes, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa for the entire period.
long-serving director this year would be undesirable and would not They have provided considerable stability to the board since the be in the interests of the company or its shareholders.
listing in 1999 and the board has benefited greatly from the presence of individuals who have over time gained valuable insight into the While recognising the benefits of the experience and stability brought group, its markets and the industry.
The provisions of the Combined by its long-standing directors, the board remains committed to the Code require the board to consider, where a director has served for progressive renewal of board membership, having acted during the a period of more than nine years, whether that director continues to year to bring about the appointment of Ms Ramos, Mr Pieterse and be independent.
In respect of each of the three independent directors Dr Moyo.
Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa the board has The board considers that the composition of the audit committee considered specifically whether their length of service has compromised remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the companys largest their independence.
In each case the board has determined that the shareholder, and is satisfied that, having regard to the terms of the director concerned remained independent of character and judgment relationship agreement between the company and Altria, and the and that there were no relationships or circumstances which were experience and background in financial matters of Mr Devitre, the likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgment, independence and effectiveness of the audit committee in discharging and that the independence of character and judgment of each of its functions in terms of the Combined Code continue to be the directors concerned was not in any way affected or impaired considerably enhanced and not compromised.
The board has also conducted a rigorous review of the performance of the Chairman, Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa and considers that each of these directors brings invaluable integrity, wisdom and experience to the board and that 4.
How the board operates they continue to contribute positively to board and committee deliberations.
Therefore, the board is entirely satisfied as to the 4.1 Board meetings and attendance performance and continued independence of judgement of each During the year there were six board meetings.
Individual directors of these directors.
attendance at board and committee meetings and at the annual general meeting is set out in the table below.
In the few instances Under the Combined Code, directors who have served for more than where a director has not been able to attend a board or committee nine years are required to stand for annual re-election and, in line with meeting, any comments which he or she has had arising out of the the boards prior determination that they should do so, each of the papers to be considered at that meeting have been relayed in Chairman and Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa will advance to the relevant chairman.
again offer himself for re-election for a term of one year.
The board Directors attendance 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2009 and committee memberships Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM J M Kahn N A 66 1122 E A G Mackay 66 22 M I Wyman 66 22 G C Bible 56 01 D Devitre 5644 M E Doherty 6644 Lord Fellowes 6644441122 P J Manser 6644341122 J A Manzoni 66 34 22 M Q Morland 66444411 C A Prez Dvila 66 R Pieterse 44 22 M C Ramaphosa 66 1122 M Ramos 4433 Lord Renwick 33 A Santo Domingo Dvila 66 11 considered to be independent for Combined Code purposes Mr Bible was unable to attend one meeting of the board and one meeting of the nomination committee as a result of the illness of a family member.
Mr Devitre was unable to attend one meeting of the board as a result of a clash with an Altria board meeting.
Mr Manser was unable to attend one meeting of the remuneration committee as a result of illness.
Mr Manzoni was unable to attend one meeting of the remuneration committee as a result of a longstanding prior engagement.
Dr Moyo is not included in the table as she joined the board with effect from 1 June 2009.
50 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.2 Operation of the board Following the appointment of new directors to the board, directors The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, determines are briefed on the duties they owe as directors to the company and investment policies, agrees on performance criteria and delegates tailored induction programmes are arranged which involve industryto management the detailed planning and implementation of those specific training and include visits to the groups businesses and objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
meetings with senior management, as appropriate.
New directors are The board monitors compliance with policies and achievement against briefed on internal controls at business unit level and are advised of objectives by holding management accountable for its activities the legal and other duties they have as directors of a listed company through monthly and quarterly performance reporting and budget as well as on relevant company policies and governance-related updates.
In addition, the board receives regular presentations, on matters.
The company arranges for major shareholders to have the a rotational basis, from the divisional managing directors as well as opportunity to meet new appointees.
The company is also committed from directors of key group functions marketing: corporate affairs: to the continuing development of directors in order that they may build supply chain and human resources: and legal enabling it to explore on their expertise and develop an ever more detailed understanding specific issues and developments in greater detail.
of the business and the markets in which group companies operate.
Members of board committees are encouraged to attend internal Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of and external briefings and courses on aspects of their respective intellectual honesty of purpose, integrity and mutual respect, committee specialities and regular updates on relevant legal, regulatory, requiring reporting of the highest standard by management and corporate governance and technical developments are presented to direct, robust and constructive challenge and debate among committee members and, as appropriate, to the board.
4.7 Outside appointments 4.3 Matters reserved for the board Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside boards There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively by the provided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment board.
These include approval of financial statements: the groups to discharge effectively their duties to SABMiller.
The nomination business strategy: the annual capital expenditure plan: major capital committee keeps the extent of directors other interests under review projects: major changes to the groups management and control to ensure that the effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
structure: material investments or disposals: risk management The board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the non-executive strategy: social and environmental policy: and treasury policies.
directors commit sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties as The board governs through clearly mandated board committees, Chairman and directors of the company, respectively.
accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each standing The board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive directors board committee has specific written terms of reference issued by and members of the executive committee accepting non-executive the board and adopted in committee.
The terms of reference of the directorships of other companies in order to widen their experience audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available on and knowledge for the benefit of the company.
Accordingly, executive the companys website or, on request, from the Company Secretary.
directors and members of the executive committee are permitted to All committee chairmen report orally on the proceedings of their accept external non-executive board appointments, subject to the committees at the next meeting of the board, and the minutes of agreement of the board, and are allowed to retain any fees received the meetings of all board committees are included in the papers from such appointments.
distributed to board members in advance of the next board meeting.
Mr Mackay is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 4.4 Conflicts of interest and is the Senior Independent Director and a member of the From 1 October 2008, directors have been required to avoid a remuneration committee of that company.
He is also a member of the situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest board of Philip Morris International Inc. and serves on its compensation that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
and leadership development, finance and product innovation and As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association regulatory affairs committees.
Fees earned by Mr Mackay from his of the company were amended at the 2008 Annual General Meeting appointments are set out in the remuneration report on page 62. to allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that The board is satisfied that these duties do not impinge on may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Mr Mackays commitment and ability to discharge fully his duties Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by directors of to the company, and that his service on the boards of two global any such conflicts and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought consumer product companies which operate in many of the if a conflict arises.
These procedures have been operating effectively.
developed and emerging markets in which the company also has 4.5 The roles of executive and non-executive directors businesses gives Mr Mackay additional insight and knowledge which The executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy and enhance his ability to fulfil his duties as Chief Executive of the company.
for making and implementing operational decisions.
Non-executive Mr Mackay is currently the only executive director or member of the directors complement the skills and experience of the executive executive committee serving on the board of another public company.
directors, bring an independent judgement and contribute to the 4.8 Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent formulation of strategy, policy and decision making through their Director knowledge and experience of other businesses and sectors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with 4.6 Information and training responsibilities divided between them.
This separation of The board and its committees are supplied with full and timely responsibilities is formalised in their respective letters of appointment, information, including detailed financial information, to enable approved by the board.
There were no significant changes to the directors to discharge their responsibilities.
All directors have access Chairmans external commitments during the year.
to the advice of the Company Secretary.
Independent professional The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout advice is also available to directors in appropriate circumstances, the year and, in the month prior to the annual general meeting, he at the companys expense, and the committees have been provided also invites major shareholders to meet with him to deal with any with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
The board is kept informed of the views of shareholders directors has sought independent external advice through the through regular updates from the Chairman, the Company Secretary company.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the and the executive directors, as well as through the inclusion in the board, through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
board papers of reports on commentaries of, and exchanges with, shareholders and investor bodies.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance 51 Corporate governance continued The Senior Independent Director is Lord Fellowes.
Lord Fellowes is Independent Director and each of the boards four standing chairman of CARAC, and also serves on the audit, remuneration and committees were reviewed.
Regarding the board committees, nomination committees.
He is therefore well placed to influence the each of the committee chairmen expressed their views regarding governance of the company and to meet his responsibilities as Senior the operation of his committee against its terms of reference and Independent Director.
Lord Fellowes serves as an additional contact the performance and effectiveness of that committee.
These point for shareholders should they feel that their concerns are not views were discussed in an open and constructive manner with being addressed through the normal channels.
Lord Fellowes is recommendations arising from the discussions being brought also available to fellow non-executive directors, either individually or forward to the board and the respective committees.
It was agreed collectively, to discuss any matters of concern in a forum that does that the minor matters which had been identified through the director not include executive directors or the management of the company.
questionnaire process as requiring further consideration would be In the year under review, the Chairman hosted a meeting of the addressed.
The conclusion of this meeting was that the board was non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
balanced and operated effectively and that the board committees Lord Fellowes has, in addition, held a meeting of non-executive discharged their duties under which their respective terms of directors without the presence of the Chairman at which, among reference operated effectively.
Each of the directors and the other things, the performance of the Chairman was discussed.
Chairman had been assessed to be performing at least satisfactorily and continued to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles 4.9 Board, committee and director performance evaluation and to devote sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties.
A formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the board and of the audit, remuneration, nomination and corporate The results of the performance and effectiveness assessment accountability and risk assurance committees is carried out each process as outlined above were reviewed in full and approved year, led by the Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent by the board.
Director and in consultation with other directors and the Company At the forthcoming annual general meeting four directors, Secretary.
The process was this year facilitated by completion by Mr Bible, Ms Doherty, Mr Prez and Mr Santo Domingo are required each director of a detailed questionnaire examining the effectiveness to seek re-election in accordance with the companys articles of and operation of the board and its committees.
Dr Moyo was not association, having served for three years since their last election.
included in this process, which had been completed before she As previously mentioned, the Chairman, Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland joined the board.
and Mr Ramaphosa have each served continuously on the board The performance of the Chief Executive is reviewed by the for more than nine years and, accordingly, offer themselves for remuneration committee and this review is shared with and re-election annually.
The performance of the Chief Financial The Chairman confirms that each of the directors offering themselves Officer is reviewed by the Chief Executive and the remuneration for re-election continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate committee, and reported on to the board by the remuneration commitment to their role.
In addition, the Chairman confirms that committee.
Each non-executive directors performance is evaluated in relation to each of the directors who will have served for over by the Chairman, in consultation with the Senior Independent nine years, the board is satisfied with their performance and has Director, who in turn consults with the executive directors and the determined that the length of their service does not compromise Company Secretary.
The Chairmans performance is evaluated their independence.
Lord Fellowes, as Senior Independent Director, against the same criteria by the Senior Independent Director, the confirms that the Chairman continues to perform effectively and to non-executive directors and the Company Secretary, taking into demonstrate commitment to his role.
account the views of the executive directors.
Biographical details of Dr Moyo, who is standing for election, and of In considering the contribution of individual directors for the year the directors who are standing for re-election, are included on pages under review, performance was assessed against the companys 42 and 43 of this report.
selected criteria of strategy, expertise in their field, ethics and governance factors, commitment, profile, knowledge of the industry 4.10 Retirement of directors and team contribution, culminating in an overall contribution rating.
New directors are subject to election at the first annual general The Chairman was satisfied that the performance criteria used meeting following their appointment, and directors are subject adequately covered all of the appraisal factors suggested by the to retirement and re-election by shareholders every three years.
Higgs Report, with the exception of Attendance and preparation.
The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
He was satisfied all directors attained a high level of attendance and The board has determined that non-executive directors who have preparation.
A rating scale of Poor, Below Average, Average, served for nine years will be asked to stand for re-election annually, Above Average and Fully Satisfactory was used in assessing provided that the board remains satisfied both with the directors directors performance against the criteria.
The performance and performance and that nine years continuous service does not contribution of each director was assessed as either Above Average compromise the directors continuing independence.
or Fully Satisfactory, while recognising the importance of the 4.11 The Company Secretary different roles played by individual directors in bringing a balanced The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and overall view to the board.
In reviewing the performance of the board its committees and he attended all meetings during the year and its committees, the Chairman and the Senior Independent under review.
Director were aligned in their conclusion that, measured against the principal duties expected of it, the board including by extension its standing and ad hoc sub-committees continued to operate effectively and to meet in full its obligations to support management, 5.
The boards committees and the to monitor performance across a wide area, and to maintain its strategic oversight.
executive committee In a meeting of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the 5.1 The executive committee committee chairmen and the Company Secretary, the results of the The board delegates responsibility for determining and implementing performance and effectiveness evaluations conducted in respect of the groups strategy and for managing the group to the Chief the board, each of the directors, the Chairman, the Senior Executive, Mr Graham Mackay, who is supported by the executive 52 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information committee excom, which he chairs.
Excom members are appointed developments in accounting standards and the groups responses: by Mr Mackay.
The other members of excom are the Chief Financial the progress of the years internal audit programme and matters Officer, Mr Wyman: the divisional managing directors responsible for arising: managing the groups regional hubs Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia : the Managing Director of The South African Breweries the effectiveness of the internal audit function: Limited: the directors of key group functions marketing: corporate progress achieved during the year to position the group to achieve affairs: and supply chain and human resources : and the General substantive compliance with section 404 of the US SarbanesCounsel and Group Company Secretary.
Excoms purpose is to Oxley Act although the company is not an SEC registrant and support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to is not required to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley standards : him by the board and, in that context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution, delivers strategic plans, budgets and the results of the groups bi-annual letters of representation financial reports for the boards consideration and, through the and managements investigation and follow-up of any instances Chief Executive, reports on these matters to the board.
of non-compliance: Excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place and the internal control environment and risk management systems functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process and the groups statement on internal control systems, prior to in operation throughout the group.
endorsement by the board: 5.2 The disclosure committee material litigation affecting the group: The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief the recommendation to the board of the reappointment of Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, a designated non-executive  LLP as the external auditors: and director Lord Fellowes, and the Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
The function of the disclosure committee, in the terms of reference and the effectiveness of the committee.
accordance with the groups inside information policy, is to assure The audit committee reports its activities and makes recommendations compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the to the board.
During the year, the audit committee discharged its Listing Rules, and to ensure that the routes of communication responsibilities as they are defined in the committees terms of between excom members, the disclosure committee, the General reference, and has been engaged in ensuring that appropriate Counsels office, the company secretarial office and investor standards of governance, reporting and compliance are being met.
relations are clear and provide for rapid escalation to the disclosure The committee has advised the board on issues relating to the committee and key advisers of any decision regarding potential application of accounting standards as they relate to published inside information, so that the company is able to comply fully with financial information.
During the year the Chief Internal Auditor its continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency left the company to pursue other career opportunities.
While a Rules and the Listing Rules.
permanent replacement is being recruited, an Interim Chief Internal 5.3 The audit committee Auditor has been appointed.
The committee has been fully involved During the year under review, the audit committee was chaired by in this process.
Mr Manser, who has been chairman of the committee since May The Chief Internal Auditor including the Interim Chief Internal Auditor, 2002.
Mr Manser qualified as a chartered accountant in 1964 and has direct access to the committee, primarily through its chairman.
was made a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 1976.
The committee has access to subsidiary company internal audit Further biographical information concerning Mr Manser is set out on leadership.
The reports of the divisional audit committees are also page 43. available to the audit committee.
Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, Mr Devitre and Ms Doherty served on the During the year, the committee met with the external auditors and committee throughout the year.
Mr Morland has been a member of with the Chief Internal Auditor without management being present.
the committee from its first meeting on 13 April 1999.
Lord Fellowes was appointed to the committee on 1 June 2001, Ms Doherty on 5.4 The nomination committee 1 April 2006 and Mr Devitre on 16 May 2007.
Ms Ramos was During the year, the nomination committee was chaired by Mr Kahn.
appointed to the committee with effect from 31 July 2008 and served Lord Fellowes, Mr Bible, Mr Manser, Mr Morland, Mr Ramaphosa and until her resignation on 26 February 2009.
The Chairman has recent Mr Santo Domingo were members of this committee throughout the and relevant financial experience, as does Ms Doherty, who is Chief year.
The committee is empowered to consider the composition of Financial Officer of Brambles Limited and was previously Group the board and its committees.
It is asked to consider the retirement, International Finance Director of Tesco PLC, and Mr Devitre, having appointment and replacement of directors, and is required to make until 31 March 2008 held the position of Chief Financial Officer of appropriate recommendations to the board.
The committee met four times during the year.
The external The nomination committee has continued to evaluate the balance auditors, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the of skills, knowledge and experience of the board and is committed Chief Internal Auditor attended each meeting by invitation.
Other to the progressive renewal of the board through orderly succession.
members of the management team attended as required.
Appropriate succession plans for the non-executive directors, for The work of the committee during the year included consideration the executive directors and for senior management were also kept of the following matters: under review.
in respect of the 2008 year end: the annual financial statements Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use and the preliminary announcement before their submission to the services of external consultants in order to identify suitable the board for approval, including consideration of the group on candidates for the board to consider.
Candidates are shortlisted a going concern basis, with particular reference to balance sheet for consideration by the nomination committee on the basis of and treasury considerations: their relevant corporate or professional skills and experience.
In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement with the interim financial statements and interim announcement: Altria, the only executive directors appointed to the board are the reports from the external auditors on the annual and interim Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
financial statements: approval of the audit plan and fee proposal for the 2009 year end: SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance 53 Corporate governance continued 5.5 The remuneration committee The committee consists entirely of independent directors: Mr Morland 6.
Relationship with auditors Chairman, Lord Fellowes, Mr Manzoni and Mr Manser.
 were appointed as auditors of The committee is empowered by the board to set short-term and the company on 8 February 1999, subsequently becoming long-term remuneration for the executive directors.
More generally,  LLP PwC in 2003. the committee is responsible for the assessment and approval of The company has in place a formal policy on auditor independence a broad remuneration strategy for the group and for the operation and non-audit services, with which the external auditors are required of the companys share-based incentive plans.
This includes to comply, to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not determination of short-term and long-term incentives for executives impaired by the nature of non-audit work.
The policy stipulates work across the group.
which is permitted or not permitted to be performed by the auditors, The remuneration committee has implemented its strategy of and provides for appropriate approval and oversight processes.
ensuring that employees and executives are rewarded for their As a further safeguard, PwC confirm in a formal report to the audit contribution to the groups operating and financial performance committee that processes to ensure compliance with this policy are at levels which take account of industry, market and country in place and that these processes are monitored regularly.
To ensure that the executives goals are aligned includes a statement that, in their opinion, PwC believe that the to those of the company, share incentives are considered to be nature of its non-audit services has not impaired the audit of the critical elements of executive incentive pay.
During the year, the company.
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements has a committee engaged the services of consultants, Kepler Associates.
breakdown of non-audit services provided to the group by the These consultants have no other connection with the company.
auditors for the year under review.
At levels below the companys executive committee, the companys The audit committee is satisfied that, for the period under review, the management consults, among others, Hay Consulting and Towers independence of the auditors has not been affected by the provision Perrin, on a project basis.
Specifically, during the year the work of the remuneration committee The committee has also implemented a formal system for the review included: of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
This process involves reviewing trends in UK executive remuneration and governance: the external auditors presenting to the committee their proposed audit strategy followed by the output of their initial discussions with reviewing the key elements of the groups long-term incentive management.
At the audit committee meeting in May, the external schemes including peer comparator group composition : auditors present the output of their detailed year-end work.
In making considering and approving for submission to the companys its assessment of external auditor effectiveness, the committee shareholders new share option plans to replace the then existing reviews the audit engagement letters before signature by management, plans which had been due to expire : reviews the external auditors summary of group and subsidiary issues and managements response to the summary, and conducts reviewing benchmarking methodologies and outcomes: an overall review of the effectiveness of the external audit process reviewing and approving performance hurdles for short and the external auditors.
This review is facilitated by the use of and long-term incentive awards: templates that rate effectiveness across 18 critical criteria.
reviewing and approving long-term incentive awards for executive committee members: reviewing and approving total remuneration for the executive 7.
Relations with shareholders directors: and During the year, the company has continued to promote dialogue reviewing and approving the draft remuneration report.
with its major institutional shareholders.
All shareholders were again encouraged to attend the annual general meeting, which provides More details of the companys remuneration policy can be found in shareholders with the opportunity to ask questions of the board and the remuneration report on pages 57 to 65. chairmen of all the board committees.
All resolutions were put to a 5.6 The corporate accountability and risk assurance poll at the annual general meeting in 2008.
Voting at the meeting committee CARAC was conducted electronically, with the results being published on Lord Fellowes chaired the committee throughout the year.
Mr Kahn, the Regulatory News Service and on the companys website.
Mr Mackay, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Ramaphosa and Mr Wyman Alongside the facilities offered by the Company Secretarys served as members for the entire period.
Mr Pieterse joined the department, the company maintains a dedicated investor relations committee on 31 July 2008.
Additionally, the Director of Corporate function which reports to the Director of Corporate Affairs.
The Affairs, Ms Clark, met regularly with the chairman of CARAC to investor relations team builds and maintains long-term relationships discuss implementation and planning issues, and attended all with institutional investors and analysts and, in partnership with our meetings of the committee.
corporate and divisional management teams and within the scope The objective of CARAC is to assist the board in the discharge of of regulatory constraints, gives presentations on regional business its responsibilities in relation to corporate accountability, including outlooks and strives to ensure that these are understood across sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, corporate the global equity markets in subsequent one-to-one meetings social investment and ethical commercial behaviour.
Occasional business site visits are also arranged.
of the committees activities can be found in the sustainable Dialogue on socially responsible investment is handled by the development review section of this report and in the companys Head of Sustainable Development in the corporate affairs separate Sustainable Development Report which is available on department, who undertakes focused briefings with interested the companys website and, upon request, in hard copy.
During the year, the CARAC focused on company-specific and In addition to scheduled management-led programmes in which industry issues which are critical to protecting the companys executives interact with investors and analysts, the Chairman has, licence to operate.
54 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information independently, initiated formal contact with all shareholders or their management processes in place to mitigate significant risks to an representatives holding more than 1% of the issued share capital of acceptable level: the company.
The purpose of this contact is to enable the Chairman ongoing monitoring of significant risks and internal and external to address any queries shareholders may have regarding the environmental factors that may change the groups risk profile: and governance of the company or non-operational aspects of company strategy.
It is also, more broadly, designed to give the board a greater a regular review by the group of both the type and amount of awareness of shareholder concerns.
Alongside the Chairman, the external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks shareholders and views expressed will be communicated by the involved.
As part of this initiative, the Chairman offers In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to the board on key risks, to meet with significant shareholders in the month before the annual there is a process of regular reporting to the board through the general meeting specifically to deal with issues arising from the annual audit committee on the status of the risk management process.
report and notice of the annual general meeting.
All non-executive directors of the company are invited to participate in this process.
Key annual reports include those that identify, rank, monitor and Institutional and shareholder comment on the annual report is measure strategic, operational and financial risks in each division conveyed to the board through the audit and remuneration and on a group basis.
committees and the Company Secretary.
Risk management The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal control for The groups risk management system is subject to regular review to UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the application of ensure compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the Combined Codes principles and compliance with the Combined the Turnbull Guidance 2005 on internal control and risk management Codes provisions with regard to internal control.
and is designed to deliver value to the operating businesses.
The groups systems of internal control are designed and operated 8.1 Risk and the board of directors to support the identification, evaluation and management of risks The directors are ultimately responsible for the groups risk affecting the group and the business environment in which it management system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As such, they are subject to continuous review as management system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, circumstances change and new risks emerge.
The company has the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and there is an made significant progress towards achieving substantive compliance ongoing process in place for identifying, assessing, managing, with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act through the Internal Financial monitoring and reporting on the significant risks faced by individual Control IFC programme.
This is a voluntary initiative, and has led group companies and by the group as a whole.
This process has to a further strengthening of internal control systems and processes been in place for the year under review up to the approval of the within the group.
The principal risks and uncertainties Key features of the systems of internal control are: facing the group are set out on page 10. the risk management system described in the preceding section: 8.2 Executive committee Excom has specific responsibility as the risk management committee written policies and procedures within our businesses, which are for the groups system of risk management.
Excom reviews the detailed in policy manuals: groups significant risks and subsequently reports to the board on clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority: material changes and the associated mitigating actions.
identification and regular testing of key financial controls through In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005, reviews on the the IFC programme: effectiveness of the risk management system were carried out by the risk management committee in April and September 2008 and key policies employed in managing operating risk involve in April 2009. segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, financial and managerial and comprehensive reporting and 8.3 Enterprise-wide risk management analysis against approved standards and budgets: Excom views the careful and appropriate management of risk as a key management role.
Managing business risk to deliver opportunities group treasury operations which manage exposure to interest is a key element of all our business activities.
This is undertaken using rate, counterparty, liquidity and currency transaction risks and a practical and flexible framework which provides a consistent and co-ordinate the activities of group companies in this area.
sustained approach to risk evaluation.
The business risks, which may Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures are reviewed be strategic, operational, financial, environmental or concerning the regularly by the audit committee on behalf of the board: groups reputation, are understood and visible.
The business context a group tax risk and tax operating framework which forms the determines in each situation the level of acceptable risk and controls.
basis of tax governance across the group and is managed by We continue to seek improvement in the management of risk by a group tax function which monitors tax risk and implements sharing best practice throughout the organisation.
strategies and procedures to control it: Key features of the groups system of risk management are: minimisation of operating risk by using appropriate infrastructure, group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values: controls, systems and people throughout the businesses: and clear business objectives and business principles: business continuity planning, including preventative and contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase an established risk policy: of insurance.
a continuing process for identification and evaluation of significant risks to the achievement of business objectives: SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance 55 Corporate governance continued Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and on are performed either by teams of appropriate, qualified and their effectiveness is obtained through regular management reviews, experienced employees, or through the engagement of external review of key financial controls, internal audit reviews and quality practitioners upon specified and agreed terms with equivalent assurance described in section 10 below, testing of certain aspects access.
The Chief Internal Auditor prepares formal reports for of the internal financial control systems by the external auditors each audit committee meeting as to the consolidated activities during the course of their statutory examinations and regular reports and key findings of the global internal audit function.
to the audit committee by the external auditors.
The groups divisional The global internal audit function utilises a standardised group-wide Finance, Control and Assurance committees consider the results of internal audit methodology and has implemented a formal global these reviews to confirm that controls are functioning and to ensure quality assurance and effectiveness programme.
Accordingly, detailed that any material breakdowns and remedial actions have been quality review assessments are performed with regard to the local reported to the appropriate boards of directors.
This does not apply and regional internal audit teams, to ensure compliance with defined in respect of the groups associated undertakings or joint ventures.
This process provides a basis At the half year and at the year end the divisional managing directors for the annual review of the effectiveness of the global internal audit and finance directors of all the groups operations, and each of the function and results in a formal report prepared by the Chief Internal groups functional directors, are required to submit formal letters of Auditor to the audit committee to support the committees formal representation on controls, compliance and notification of continuing annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, or potential material financial and legal exposures.
periodic reviews by independent external consultants are undertaken when deemed necessary by the audit committee.
The last independent These letters form the subject of reports to the audit committee.
review was completed in February 2008, reporting positive results They cover all subsidiary companies but do not cover joint ventures and rating the groups internal audit function as high quality.
or associates except for MillerCoors and Tsogo Sun, which do submit letters of representation.
Where material, group executives The audit committee has therefore satisfied itself that adequate, sit on the boards of associated companies.
Directors and members objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist of the executive committee also make annual written declarations within the group, and that continuous improvement in the quality of interests and are obliged to report without delay any potential and objectivity of the global internal audit function remains a primary or actual conflicts of interest which may arise.
The directors are responsible for the groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
The board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups internal 11.
Whistleblowing measures controls covering material financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems for the year under review.
All employees in subsidiaries within the group have the opportunity Necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any to make confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and significant weaknesses identified from the boards review of the wrongdoing.
The Company Secretary or the Deputy Company internal control system.
The systems of internal control are designed Secretary, in consultation with the Chief Internal Auditor, decides to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve on the appropriate method and level of investigation.
The audit business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, committee is notified of all material disclosures made and receives assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing these, reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
The audit the board has taken into account the results of all the work carried committee has the power to request further information, conduct out by internal and external auditors.
its own inquiries or order additional action as it sees fit.
The board, with advice from the audit committee, has completed John Davidson its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control General Counsel and Group Company Secretary for the period since 1 April 2008 in accordance with the Turnbull For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc Guidance, and is satisfied that this system is in accordance with that 1 June 2009 Guidance and that it has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report.
Internal audit The global internal audit function consists of local and regional internal audit functions operating in each of the groups principal business units, centrally co-ordinated by the group internal audit team and led by the Chief Internal Auditor.
As noted in section 5.3 of this report, during the year the Chief Internal Auditor left the company.
While a permanent replacement is being recruited, an Interim Chief Internal Auditor has been appointed.
In keeping with the groups decentralised collaborative management structure, the local internal audit functions report to local senior finance management but have direct access to local audit committees, group internal audit and the Chief Internal Auditor.
The local and regional audit functions have continuous, unfettered interface with the group internal audit function, which reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer and has direct access to the audit committee through the Chief Internal Auditor.
Internal audit activities 56 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
