The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement 43 The Company and the Group are committed to high standards The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
To enable the Board to discharge its This statement describes how the relevant principles of corporate duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information.
governance are applied by the Company.
Throughout the year Briefing papers are distributed by the Secretary to all directors the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set in advance of Board meetings.
out in the Revised Combined Code June 2008 on Corporate The members of the Board have evaluated the performance of Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the the Board, its committees and individual members at meetings Combined Code.
and also through the completion of detailed questionnaires.
The questionnaires cover a range of issues relating to the Boards The workings of the Board and role and its responsibilities, the conduct of Board meetings its committees and the structures in place to ensure that the Board has the opportunity to debate fully areas of concern, the leadership and The Board culture of the Group.
The questionnaires also consider Board The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, communications, governance and the performance of the the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five other Committees and their members.
The completed questionnaires independent non-executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman are reviewed and considered by the Chairman and by the Board and the Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and as a whole.
The Chairman follows this review with meetings with are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role individual directors.
The Company Secretary also raises the areas adopted by the Board and available to shareholders on request covered by the questionnaires for discussion with key executives to the Secretary at the registered office and on the Companys who support the Board and the Committees and key advisors website at www.
and reports their views to the Chairman.
This years review The directors biographies appear on pages 38 and 39. identified new themes and topics for inclusion in the Board These demonstrate that the directors have a range of experience agenda for next year: and a need to increase the time available and are of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on for Board meetings.
issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of The current Board complies with the main principle in conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
3 of the Combined Code in that it includes a are subject to re-election at least every three years.
balance of executive and non-executive directors so that The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the management of the Group.
Where it is considered appropriate, Boards decision taking.
training is made available to directors and training needs are New members of the Board undergo a full, formal and tailored assessed as part of the evaluation procedure of the Board induction to the Board.
A statement of the directors responsibilities in Under the Companies Act a director must avoid a situation where respect of the accounts is set out on page 48.
The Board has he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, formally adopted a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The Act for decision which is available to shareholders on request to the allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and Secretary at the registered office and which is also available on potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of the Companys website at www.
All directors have association contain a provision to this effect.
The Articles of access to the advice and services of the Secretary, who is Association give the directors authority to approve such situations responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied dealt with.
The Secretary ensures that the directors take independent professional advice as required at the expense of the Company At the commencement of each Board meeting, the Board when it is judged necessary to discharge their responsibilities as consider a register of interests and potential conflicts of directors directors.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a and give, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
matter for the Board as a whole.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide The Board meets formally not less than six times a year, reviewing whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will monitoring strategy, examining major acquisition opportunities be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the and reviewing regular reports to shareholders.
In the year under decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good review the Board met on six occasions.
All directors in office faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
at the time attended all of these Board meetings other than The directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving Ms T Ingram, who was unable to attend one meeting.
authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 44 Corporate governance statement The Chairman its cost.
The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive The terms of reference for the Chairman of the Board ensure directors including performance share awards, performancethat this role is quite distinct from that of the Chief Executive related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation and are set out on the Companys website at www.
Remuneration consultants advise the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board has held meetings with the nonThe Committee also monitors remuneration for those senior executive directors without the executive directors.
In addition, executives below Board level.
the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
also ensures that shareholder communication and responses are discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration have access to the non-executive directors, through a request to are given in the Remuneration report on pages 49 to 60, together the Chairman or the Secretary.
with further details of the Remuneration Committee.
The Senior Independent Director Audit Committee The Board has appointed Mr T C W Ingram to the role of Senior The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr M E Rolfe.
This role provides a point of contact for members are independent non-executive directors, Mr T C W those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, Ingram, Ms R Markland, Ms T Ingram and Mr I Mason.
Mr Rolfe other than through the Chairman.
He is available to consult with is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England shareholders and also chairs meetings of the non-executive and Wales and is considered by the Board to have the recent directors without the Chairman present.
and relevant financial experience required for the provisions of the Combined Code.
The other members of the Committee have Committees of the Board a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced in their biographies on pages 38 and 39.
The Board makes Committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects of appointments to the Committee and the Company Secretary acts the Groups affairs.
These Committees are the Remuneration as secretary to the Committee.
Full induction training is provided Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
for new members and additional training is provided as and when Details of all these Committees are set out below.
Having reviewed the composition of the Committee in Board notes that all independent non-executive directors other the year under review, the Board is satisfied that the Committee than the Chairman of the Board are members of all Board has the resources and expertise to fulfil effectively its Committees, it is considered that membership is appropriate responsibilities, including those relating to risks and controls.
in light of the Boards policy that all independent non-executive directors are given the opportunity to take part in the discussions The main duties of the Committee, set out in its terms of of those Committees.
The terms of reference of the reference, are to: Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees are reviewed Make recommendations on the appointment and annually and are available on request from the Secretary at the remuneration of external auditors and to monitor their registered office of the Company or on the Companys website performance and independence: at www.
Approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that the Remuneration Committee independence of the auditors is not compromised: The Groups Remuneration Committee is chaired by Review and advise the Board on the Companys interim and Ms R Markland who became its chair in March 2009 following annual financial statements, its accounting policies and on the annual general meeting.
The other members of the the control and mitigation of its financial and business risks: Committee are the Chairman of the Board, Mr A J Hobson, Review the nature and scope of the work to be performed and the other independent non-executive directors, Ms T Ingram, by the external and internal auditors, the results of their audit Mr T C W Ingram, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
Under its terms work and of the response of management: and of reference, the Committee meets at least twice a year.
In the Review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the year under review, five meetings of the Committee were held Companys internal control environment, including its on full notice with two further meetings held at short notice.
All members in office at the time attended all the meetings other In order to fulfil its duties referred to above, the Committee than Ms Markland who was unable to attend one meeting held receives sufficient, reliable and timely information from on short notice and Ms T Ingram who was unable to attend management as referred to below.
The terms of reference of one meeting.
The Chief Executive may, by invitation of the the Committee are reviewed on an annual basis and are available Committee, attend meetings except when his own performance at www.
Following its most recent review, the or remuneration are under review but he is not a member Committee is satisfied that the terms enable the Committee to of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making fulfil its responsibilities and determined that no material changes recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, were necessary.
on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 Meetings To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: The Committee invites executive directors, management, external and internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and appropriate for the matters being discussed.
any variations: The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their Work of the Committee handling of key accounting and audit judgements: and In the financial year, the Audit Committee met on four The content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
occasions with all members present on each occasion other The scope, fee, performance and independence of the external than Ms T Ingram who was unable to attend one meeting and auditor are considered annually by the Audit Committee.
reported its conclusions to the Board.
It met privately with the The Committee is confident that the objectivity and independence internal and external auditors without executives present.
It also of the auditors is not impaired in any way by reason of their met with executive management and executive directors.
non-audit work and has adopted controls to ensure that this The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the independence is not compromised.
These controls include the financial year as follows: continued monitoring of the independence and effectiveness of Financial reporting During the year the Committee reviewed the audit process.
the interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee Audit partners are rotated every five years with the next change received a report from the external auditors setting out the taking place in the year to 30 September 2010.
A formal accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
statement of independence from the external auditors is received The auditors reports were based on a full audit Annual each year.
In addition, the Audit Committee has adopted a Report and a high level review Interim Report respectively.
specific policy on auditor independence drawing together the Internal controls and risk management The Committee various existing Group policies in this area.
This policy requires considers reports from internal audit on the operation of, and that there is full consideration of independence issues before any issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, appointment of an employee or former employee of the auditor together with observations from the external auditors.
to a position with the Group.
It expressly states that the Group The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups will not engage the auditors to undertake any work that could risk management process, which considers the key risks, threaten the independence of the auditors and prohibits the both financial and non-financial, facing the Group and the Group from engaging the auditors to undertake certain types of effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce service, such as, amongst others, human resources services, the impact of those risks.
Internal audit Internal audit activities and responsibilities The Committee believes that the Company receives particular are provided by KPMG, under an outsourcing agreement.
benefit from tax advice provided by its auditors given their wide The Groups Risk Director provides oversight and coordination and detailed knowledge of the Group and its international nature.
of internal audit but internal audit has a direct reporting line Executive management has the discretion, subject to certain to the Audit Committee and its Chairman.
This ensures its financial limitations, to obtain taxation services from the auditors independence.
An internal audit charter is also in place which without prior reference to the Audit Committee, subject to outlines the objectives, authority, scope and responsibilities regularly appraising the Audit Committee of the amount and of internal audit.
Performance against this charter is reviewed nature of fees for such services.
Where these financial limitations on an annual basis.
are exceeded, the approval of the Audit Committee is required for It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the such appointment.
The Group also receives taxation advice from Board on the extent to which systems of internal control are other large accountancy practices as and when appropriate.
The internal audit plan which covers the scope, Non-audit services other than in relation to taxation may be authority and resources of the function is determined through undertaken by the external auditors, subject to the rules referred a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by to above, with all projects expected to cost in excess of an the Audit Committee.
amount set by the Audit Committee being approved in advance The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team either by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or by the full was reviewed and approved, the reports of results received Audit Committee, depending on the expected cost of the project.
and the responses of management considered.
The plan The Chairman of the Audit Committee may require that such set out at the beginning of the year was achieved and the projects are put out to tender to a number of firms.
It is the outcome of the work was in line with expectations.
policy of the Committee to require that acquisition due diligence External audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the be undertaken by firms other than the auditors unless conflicts development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups of interest for comparable firms make this impractical.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee and day-to-day responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 46 Corporate governance statement At each meeting, the Committee receives a report from the Relations with shareholders external auditors providing an update on the fees for non-audit Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
services incurred since the previous meeting.
Where the The Business review on pages 6 to 37 include a detailed review cumulative non-audit fees in the year are anticipated to exceed a of the business and future developments in relation to it.
A full certain sum, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who In the year to 30 September 2009 the audit fee was 1.7m.
The Company also has a website www.
com The Companys auditors,  LLP, also which contains up-to-date information on Group activities and perform non-audit services for the Group principally tax advice published financial results.
There is regular dialogue with individual over and above the external audit.
The fees in relation to these institutional shareholders and there are presentations to analysts services were 1.9m of which 1.7m was attributable to tax after the Companys announcement of the year end and half-year services and tax compliance work and 0.2m to other non-tax results.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives an update compliance services which include interim review costs and are on presentations to investors and any communication from therefore closely associated with the audit.
Further details of fees shareholders to ensure that directors, both executive and paid to auditors are set out on page 74. non-executive, have an understanding of their views.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of the The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with Committee as to external audit and, having considered the private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
services provided by the current external auditors, their independence and knowledge of the Group and the factors Internal control and risk management referred to above, the Committee has determined to recommend to the Board the reappointment of the auditors at the Annual The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of General Meeting in March 2010.
In reaching this decision, the the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
Committee also had regard to the likelihood of a withdrawal of There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and the auditor from the market.
The current external auditors were managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is appointed to that role in 1988.
The Committee has determined managed on a day-to-day basis by the Group Risk Director and that, providing the work of the external auditors remains entirely has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of satisfactory, formal consideration of a tender process will be approval of this report.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and undertaken every five years, around the time that the audit complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups The next change of audit partner will occur in the year to particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and by their 30 September 2010 and therefore, formal consideration of nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance an audit tender process will take place during the course of against misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this process that year.
has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
Nomination Committee The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of effectiveness of the system of internal control include discussions the Board, Mr A J Hobson and consists of the Chairman and with management on significant risk areas identified and the five independent non-executive directors, Mr T C W Ingram, review of plans for, and results from, internal and external audits.
Ms T Ingram, Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Committee The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of the risk is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination assessment process to the Board.
The Board then draws its Committee meets not less than once a year.
Two meetings collective conclusion as to the effectiveness of the system of of the Committee took place in the year under review at which internal control.
The key procedures, which the directors have all the members of the Committee in office at the time were established with a view to providing effective internal control, present other than on one occasion when Ms T Ingram was are as follows: unable to attend.
Indication of business risks The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of matters relating to the composition of the Board and its The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the committees including proposing candidates for appointment success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure and environment.
Such processes, which are reviewed and improved considering issues of succession.
Recruitment consultants are as necessary, include strategic planning, the appointment of used to assist in the process.
The Nomination Committee is also senior managers, the regular monitoring of performance and responsible for an annual review of the membership of the Board, control over capital expenditure and acquisitions.
The Company evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on has formed a Risk Committee consisting of the Chief Executive, the Board and advising the Board on any areas where further Group Finance Director, the Group Risk Director, the Secretary recruitment may be appropriate.
It also considers the succession and certain other members of the Executive Committee.
planning of the Group for key executive personnel at Board level and below and undertook a review of this area in the year under review.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 The Committee reviews all business activities and strategic plans within which individual responsibilities are identified and can to identify the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the be monitored.
The management of the Group as a whole is Group including those risks arising from social, environmental and delegated to the Chief Executive and the executive directors.
ethical issues and undertakes risk review audits.
In identifying The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to significant risks to which the Group is exposed, it reviews the the local executive management teams.
These teams are results of any relevant internal audit reviews and agrees mitigating accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses actions, when possible.
The conclusions of the Risk Committee within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to are reported on a regular basis to the Audit Committee.
Through act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid the work of the Audit and Risk Committees, the Board is provided down by the Board and to Group policies and guidelines.
with a balanced assessment of the significant risks associated with the Groups operations and the effectiveness of the system Directors of internal controls.
The information about the appointment and replacement of directors and the powers of directors required to be included in A whistleblowing telephone hotline service has been introduced this statement can be found on page 42 of the Directors Report.
in many operating companies in the Group including all those in the UK and US allowing employees to raise issues of concern Articles of Association in relation to dishonesty or malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
Processes for the confidential reporting of concerns have The information about making amendments to the articles of been introduced in France and the Group is considering the association required to be included in this statement can be found introduction of further telephone hotlines where local legislation at page 42 of the Directors Report.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on any matters raised through these services and monitors their use Internal audit throughout the Group.
The Board considers that it receives, The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG as a result, adequate information for the identification and to review compliance with procedures and assess the integrity assessment of risk.
Internal audit acts as a service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement Financial reporting of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in response In addition to the general internal controls and risk management to its recommendations and these are followed up by the Audit processes described above, the Group also has specific internal Committee to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
controls and risk management systems to govern the financial reporting process.
The requirements for producing financial Budgetary process information are governed by the Group Accounting Manual, A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual against which the Groups external auditors review the financial budgets for all operating subsidiaries being approved by statements.
Financial control requirements are set out in a respective subsidiary boards.
Subsequently the combined detailed Financial Controls Policy, which is subject to internal audit budget is subject to consideration and approval by the Board.
reviews on an annual basis.
Any part of the Group not subject to a Management information systems provide the directors specific internal audit review of financial controls in any given year with relevant and timely information required to monitor is required to self assess on the effectiveness of their financial financial performance.
Management representations covering the compliance with relevant policies and the accuracy of financial Investment appraisal including acquisitions information are also collated on an annual basis.
Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board Quality and integrity of personnel considers proposals for research and development programmes.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through Acquisition activity is subject to internal guidelines governing high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
investment appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control execution and post-acquisition management.
Management structure The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined organisational structure exists Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 48 Corporate governance statement Prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements Information on share capital and on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to other matters presume that the Group will continue in business, in which The information about share capital required to be included in case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications this statement can be found on page 41 of the Directors Report.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Statement by the directors on records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the compliance with the provisions financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors of the Combined Code remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Going concern reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and The following statement has been included in accordance with other irregularities.
the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning and control Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the the Board of directors and advisers section on pages 38 and 39, Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in preparing the accounts.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Statement of directors responsibilities The directors report includes a fair review of the development The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and performance of the business and the position of the the Remuneration report and the Group and parent Company Group, together with a description of the principal risks and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and uncertainties that it faces.
Each of the persons who is a director at the time of this report Company law requires the directors to prepare financial confirms that: statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted and by the European Union and the parent Company financial The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to statements in accordance with applicable law and United have taken as a director in order to make himself herself Kingdom Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
The Group and aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that parent Company financial statements are required by law to give the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies In preparing those financial statements the directors are Act 2006. required to: By Order of the Board Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: M J Robinson Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Secretary and prudent: 17 December 2009 State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB, and with regard to the parent Company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Governance
