Corporate governance statement Salamander strives to apply best industry practice in all of its activities.
The Board, Management and Staff of Salamander are committed to applying the highest standards of business ethics, corporate governance and health, safety and environmental control.
To this end, the Group has put in place policies and procedures within which it conducts its activities along with working practices and a business culture to ensure openness and full accountability.
Compliance with the financial reporting councils combined code on corporate governance This report and the Remuneration Report describe how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
It also discloses the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Board considers it has complied with the Code in all aspects throughout the financial year.
Board of directors During 2009, the Board comprised ten, and latterly nine, Directors including the Non-executive Chairman, three Executive Directors, five independent Non-executive Directors and one non-Independent Non-executive Director.
Mike Sibson was considered to be non-independent since he was appointed pursuant to an understanding between the Company and 3i QPE PLC that for as long as 3i QPE PLC held not less than 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, 3i QPE PLC would have the right to appoint, remove and re-appoint one non-executive director of the Company, subject to confirmation of its nomination by the Nomination Committee.
Mike Sibson resigned on 15 May 2009 following the placing of 3i QPE PLCs equity interest in the Company where upon this right ceased.
All of the Executive Directors have extensive upstream oil and gas experience.
The majority of the Non-executive Directors have held senior appointments in oil and gas companies and, together, the Non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business and commercial experience to the Board.
The biographies of the Board members are set out in the Board of Directors and Advisers section.
The role of the Board is clearly defined.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
It sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to achieve those aims, and reviews management and financial performance.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for ensuring that these, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans key responsibilities are the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy, and acting as guardian of the Boards decision-making process.
The Chairmans other significant commitment is as Chairman of Vostok Energy Limited.
The Board believes that the Chairmans obligations are unaffected by this directorship.
The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer are managing the Groups business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with major shareholders as part of the Companys overall investor relations programme.
33 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance statement continued Board of directors continued The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
Additionally, the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control which has been in place throughout 2009.
The Boards monitoring covers control matters, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
A summary of the key risks facing the Group and mitigating actions is described in the Financial Review.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered applicable.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, they may serve one or more three year terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The letters of appointment of each Non-executive Director are available for inspection.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Struan Robertson.
In this role he is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be re-elected by shareholders at the next AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Prior to such re-elections, the Chairman and the Nomination Committee will review each Directors performance to ensure they continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and on an ad hoc basis as required.
The attendance record of each Director is shown below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Charles Jamieson 6 N A N A 2 James Menzies 6 N A N A N A Mike Buck 6 N A N A N A Nick Cooper 6 N A N A N A Struan Robertson 6 3 2 2 Michael Pavia 6 3 N A N A John Crowle 6 3 2 N A Robert Cathery 5 N A 2 2 James Coleman 6 N A N A N A 1 Mike Sibson 1 N A N A N A Number of Meetings 6 3 2 2 1 Until date of resignation on 15 May 2009 In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Executive Directors, maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may have relating to the Group or as regards their area of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on ongoing matters relating to the Groups operations.
34 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Board of directors continued Directors have access to a regular supply of financial, operational and strategic information, as well as the Company Secretary, to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Such information is provided as part of the normal management reporting cycle undertaken by senior management.
Board papers are generally circulated seven days in advance of Board meetings.
In addition, each formal Board meeting includes a review of the history, performance and future potential of an individual asset or business unit designed to ensure that all material assets are considered on a cyclical basis and to enable Board members to familiarise themselves with the key assets and operations of the Group.
The Board formally reviews the Groups risk register twice a year with the constant monitoring of events by the Executive Directors.
All Directors and Board Committees have access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as and when required.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive provides an induction process for each new director tailored to their individual knowledge and experience.
The Company provides training to Directors where required.
Training can include attendance at seminars, briefings by advisers and internal briefings.
The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is in place.
The matters reserved include: the Groups overall strategy, approval of annual and interim results, material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts and major capital expenditure projects and budgets.
Subject to those reserved matters, the Board delegates authority for the management of the business primarily to the Chief Executive and a senior executive committee.
Certain other matters are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which is described in more detail below.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interests of directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
Shareholders approved amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting which included provisions giving the Board authority to authorise matters which may result in the Directors breaching their duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
During the year procedures, based upon the GC100 guidance, were in place to review any conflicts of interest.
The Board considers that these procedures are operating effectively.
Board performance Annual performance appraisal of the Board, its Committees, individual Directors and the Chairman is carried out, with the evaluation process involving Directors input to a detailed questionnaire followed by individual interviews and feedback with the Chairman.
The results of the survey, together with any recommendations for improving effectiveness, are presented by the Chairman to the whole Board for discussion.
The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet without the Chairman to evaluate his performance in leading the Board and chairing meetings to conduct the Boards business.
35 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance statement continued Board performance continued In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, Committee meetings, the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors will also meet formally without executive management present to examine and review the Board performance of the executive management, both individually and as a team: this review process is in part dealt with by the Board Committees referred to below.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive hold informal meetings with the Non-executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group such as target objectives and remuneration matters.
It is the intention of the Board to conduct an external review of Board, Committee and Director performance during 2010.
Audit committee The members of the Audit Committee are Michael Pavia Chairman, Struan Robertson and John Crowle.
Other Board members may also be invited to attend committee meetings.
Michael Pavia is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Meetings are held at least three times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer is invited to attend meetings where appropriate and the Groups Auditors are regularly invited to attend meetings, including once at the planning stage before the audit and once during the year-end audit and half-year review at the reporting stage.
At least once a year the Audit Committee will also meet the Groups external auditors without Management being present.
The work of the Audit Committee in respect of the financial year has included: Consideration of matters relating to the appointment of the Groups Auditors.
Reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups Auditors.
Reviewing the integrity of the Groups annual and half-year reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and compliance procedures.
Reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee has reviewed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial information and has examined documentation relating to the annual report and preliminary announcement.
The clarity of disclosures included in the financial statements was reviewed by the Audit Committee, as was the basis for significant estimates and judgements.
In assessing the accounting treatment of major transactions open to different approaches, the Committee considered written reports by management and the external auditors.
The Committees recommendations are submitted to the Board for approval.
The Committee decided in March 2010 to establish an internal audit function as the size and complexity of the Group has increased.
The Committee also reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, particularly in view of the relatively high level of their non-audit fees, accepting that their independence had been maintained throughout the audit process for the financial year.
The Committee considers that at this stage it is more efficient to use a single audit firm to also provide certain non-audit services for transactions and tax matters.
However, to regulate the position, the Committee has established a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
In compiling that policy, which sets out the external auditors permitted and prohibited non-audit services and a fee threshold requiring prior approval by the Audit Committee for any new engagement, reference was made to Ethical Standard 5 of the Auditing Practices Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are included on the Companys website, www.
com 36 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Remuneration committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are currently Robert Cathery Chairman, John Crowle and Struan Robertson.
The primary duty of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Groups Chief Executive, Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the executive members of the Board.
No Director may be involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are included on the Companys website, www.
com Nomination committee The members of the Nomination Committee are Struan Robertson Chairman, Charles Jamieson and Robert Cathery.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference, which are included on the Companys website, www.
com, are to review regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Nominations Committee also considers future considerations of the composition of the Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group, and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board.
Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new director is appropriate, the duty of the Committee is to present for consideration suitably qualified candidates.
In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and develops a description of the role and required capabilities.
Candidates are then identified for interview.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board regarding the re-election and or re-appointment of any director.
Similar selection processes would apply for the appointment of a Chairman.
Succession plans for key management roles, including the Executive Directors, are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Shareholder relations Communication with shareholders is given high priority and there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well as general presentations to analysts at the time of the release of the annual and half-year results.
The Board receives regular investor relations reports covering key investor meetings and activities, as well as shareholder and investor feedback.
The Group publishes its periodic results and other stock market announcements on the Investor Relations section of the Companys website www.
com and regular news updates in relation to the Group, including the status of exploration and development programmes, are also included on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive these news updates by e-mail by registering online on the website.
Subsequent events Subsequent events are as set out in note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 17 March 2010 Douglas Barrie Company Secretary 17 March 2010 37 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009
