Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:05 Page 59 Corporate Governance Report 59 Corporate Governance Report Introduction Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association include provisions In managing the affairs of the Group, the Board of Serco concerning conflicts of interest reflecting amendments which Group plc is committed to achieving high standards of were approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for Meeting.
The Board has in place procedures for Directors to all its activities around the world.
A fundamental part of the report any potential or actual conflicts to the other members of Groups corporate governance processes is the Ethics and the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding Business Conduct Policy Standard that the Company and whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest Group have adopted to support the highest standards of only non-interested Directors i. e. those that have no interest in corporate governance.
the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant Throughout 2009 Serco Group plc complied fully with the decision: in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way provisions of Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Companys success.
In addition, the Directors may impose Council the Code.
The paragraphs below, together with Our conditions or limitations when giving authorisation if they think performance section on pages 14 to 57 and the Remuneration this is appropriate.
Report on pages 70 to 80, provide details of how the Company The process of reviewing conflicts disclosed, and has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in The Board of Directors a register of Directors' conflicts which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Board composition Currently the Board has seven members: the Chairman, two Reserved and delegated authorities Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
No There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: decision-making.
With the exception of the Chairman who is presumed under the Code not to be independent, the Board Group strategy considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be Annual financial and operating plans independent.
In coming to this conclusion the Board has determined that each Director is independent in character and Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances Annual and half-year financial results which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information Directors judgements.
Each Director brings a valuable range of experience and Dividend policy expertise to the Board.
The profiles of all Directors can be Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and found on pages 68 and 69. senior management and appointing and removing Directors, the Company Secretary and Committee The role of the Board members The Board has responsibility for the overall management and Treasury policy performance of the Group, the approval of its long-term Review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of objectives and commercial strategy and for ensuring that any internal control and risk management process necessary corrective action is taken promptly.
Reporting to the Board, the Corporate Assurance Group CAG is tasked by the Training and development of the Board and the Company Group to develop and oversee corporate processes for the Secretary.
identification and management of business risks and the Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board appropriate application of the Serco Management System Committees which operate within clearly defined terms of SMS and corporate responsibility activities throughout the reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Group.
The Our performance section on pages 14 to 57 details Committees are given on pages 62 and 63. the internal control and risk policies, procedures and management framework adopted by the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Review, which covers the whole spectrum of corporate assurance processes and outcomes for 2009, is available online at www.
com and illustrates how Sercos approach to corporate assurance and responsibility translates from the Board into everyday working practices.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 60 60 Information flow The Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, is responsible for: Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board The formation and implementation of the Groups global meetings at which they make presentations on the results and strategy strategies of their divisional units and functional areas of the Delivery of the Groups business plan Group.
Board members are given appropriate documents in advance of each Board meeting and each Committee meeting, Providing motivation and leadership to the operating as appropriate.
divisions, chairing the Global Management Board and Board meetings are routinely held four times a year over two setting its style and tone days at a time and are structured to allow open discussion of Setting the overall policy and direction of Sercos business the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk operations, investments and other activities within a management of the Group.
Board and Committee meetings are framework of prudent and effective risk management and held at varying locations and the opportunity is used to ensuring that divisions and functions control those risks combine the formal business of the Board with site visits and satisfactorily divisional presentations and discussions.
Additional Board Providing leadership and representation of the Group with meetings are scheduled if required, usually to discuss major major customers and industry organisations.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings held during the year is shown in the table on page 61.
Senior Independent Director Margaret Ford was appointed Senior Independent Director in October 2007.
As part of her role, Margaret is available to Company Secretary and independent advice shareholders if they have any issues or wish to discuss any The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board aspects of the Companys business without the Executive on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board Directors or Chairman present.
procedures are followed, ensuring good information flow and facilitating induction programmes for Directors.
All Directors External directorships for Executive Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Board considers that Executive Directors can gain valuable Secretary.
experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent professional advice, if necessary, at the independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to Companys expense.
ensure that any such appointments do not compromise the effective management of the Group and that these are Chairman and Chief Executive approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are Details of the fees received by Executive Directors for external separately held and the division of their responsibilities is appointments can be found in the Remuneration Report on clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the Board.
As Chairman, Kevin Beeston is responsible for: Ensuring the effective running of the Board, its agenda and Significant other commitments of the Chairman processes Kevin Beeston is non-executive Chairman of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas Learning BV and Domestic and General Ltd, Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and is a non-executive Director of IMI plc.
and ensuring appropriate communication with shareholders The Board continues to believe that Kevin holds a on these standards and the Groups overall performance well-balanced portfolio of positions which allow him Ensuring appropriate Director development and succession to appropriately perform his duties as Chairman for the planning for the Board.
In October 2009 Kevin Beeston announced his intention to retire from the Board of Serco Group plc at the conclusion of Re-election of Directors the Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The procedure In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a for the appointment of his successor is underway, led by Director must retire at the annual general meeting but is Margaret Ford, Senior Independent Director.
eligible for reappointment if he or she has held office for more than 30 months as at the date of the notice convening the annual general meeting since he or she was appointed or last reappointed.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting must stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
The names of the Directors retiring and standing for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 61 Corporate Governance Report 61 The Non-Executive Directors Board effectiveness Independence Induction All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of On joining the Board, Directors are given background management and have no cross-directorships or significant information describing the Company and its activities.
They links which could materially interfere with the exercise of receive an induction pack which includes information on all the independent judgement.
governance processes of the Group, the roles and responsibilities of the Board, Committees and other management teams and a range of other appropriate information about the Group, its Term of appointment activities and its advisors.
Meetings are also arranged with a All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of range of key people from across the Group on a structured basis three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, to assist with a Directors induction.
Visits are also arranged, they may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a where possible, to a number of contracts around the country.
thorough review of their continued independence and suitability to continue as Non-Executive Directors being undertaken if they are to remain on the Board for more than Continued professional development nine years.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the During 2009 the Board members were all engaged in a Directors are summarised in the Remuneration Report on range of training and professional development activities.
pages 73 and 74 and are available on request from the In November 2009 the Company ran a technical workshop for Company Secretary.
the members of the Audit Committee which considered the impact of corporate governance developments, such as the findings of the Walker review, as well as technical accounting Meetings of Non-Executive Directors areas specifically relevant to the Company.
The workshop was Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the led by our external auditors, Deloitte LLP.
All training activities Chairman or Executive Directors being present at least once a are considered by the Board, which also considers the training year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This needs of the Company Secretary.
All Board members are meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
encouraged to attend relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
The training and development needs Board meetings and attendance of the Directors and the Company Secretary fall within the remit of the Board, as it considers itself best placed to The Board holds its meetings on a quarterly basis with ad hoc perform this role.
meetings in between if required.
Board meetings are scheduled over two days and are held at varying Group operating locations usually including one overseas meeting per annum.
Performance evaluation This allows a thorough exposure to the Groups activities, The Group recognises the importance of a comprehensive customers and management.
The frequency and content of evaluation process for the Board and ensures that comments Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
and recommendations are considered carefully and implemented where appropriate to ensure its continued The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and development.
A formal evaluation has been undertaken of the Committee meetings during 2009 was as follows: performance of the Board and its Committees during 2009.
The evaluation was performed through the completion of an Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 4 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings evaluation questionnaire followed by one-to-one meetings for Kevin Beeston 4 n a n a 2 all Directors.
The Audit Committee evaluation was performed Tom Corcoran 43 43 by an external facilitator.
Matters covered by the Board Christopher Hyman 4 n a n a n a questionnaire included: the effectiveness of Board meetings: Andrew Jenner 4 n a n a n a risk and risk management: Group strategy: the structure and Leonard V. Broese van composition of the Board including the skill-set and experience Groenou 43 43 of its members: finance and strategy: and stakeholder Margaret Ford 43 43 engagement.
The Board concluded that appropriate actions David Richardson 43 43 have been put in place to address all matters raised, including those identified as part of the 2008 review, and that overall the Note: Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively 1. n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, throughout the period.
although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of The Directors continue to believe the experience and diversity the Committee.
of the Board members are key strengths, along with a strong sense of value.
The Board feel well informed and key issues such as risk and strategy are well managed, with sufficient opportunity for challenge and debate.
A revision to the timings of Board meetings to improve the timing of information flow has been implemented, however the number of Board meetings is a subject which the Board intend to keep under review.
The composition of the Board remains a key focus, with the recruitment of a new Chairman being a critical factor in this regard.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 62 62 Performance evaluation continued To recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve The use of an external facilitator was considered for the any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the evaluation of the Board and all its Committees, as it was for external auditors and to ensure that the provision of the Audit Committee, and it was agreed that the internal non-audit services does not impair the external auditors process followed was sufficiently robust.
This will be kept independence or objectivity under close consideration for future periods and the Board will To discuss with the external auditors, before the audit remain mindful of any governance requirements that may commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to evolve on this matter.
review the auditors quality control procedures and steps In addition an evaluation of the Chairmans performance led by taken by the auditors to respond to changes in regulatory the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views and other requirements of both the Non-Executive and Executive Directors was To oversee the process for selecting the external auditors carried out during the year.
and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the annual general Board committees meeting.
Additionally, in accordance with the Combined Code, the The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Committee is responsible for a formal whistleblowing policy Committees to deal with matters in accordance with written and procedure which applies throughout the Group.
The terms of reference for all Committees Responsibility for the operation of this policy has been are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board to ensure they delegated to the Company Secretary.
are still appropriate and reflect any changes in good practice and governance: these are available online at www.
Members of the Audit Committee have received updates on accounting standards and generally accepted accounting Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other practice on a quarterly basis as part of the Finance Directors independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
report to the Board, and also on a half-yearly basis from the external auditors.
The Audit Committee and Audit Committee Report During 2009 the Audit Committee discharged fully its Membership: The Audit Committee consists solely of responsibilities listed above and, in doing so, considered the independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by David following: Richardson and comprises Margaret Ford, Leonard V. Broese van Groenou and Tom Corcoran.
Corporate Governance Report and statement of Directors Responsibilities for inclusion in the 2008 Annual Review The Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant and Accounts experience for this role.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Finance 2009 Half Year Report and Auditors report thereon Director, the Head of Internal Audit, KPMG LLP the Groups 2009 external audit fees internal audit providers, and Deloitte LLP the external auditors, attend meetings.
The Committee meets with each of Review of the whistleblowing policy the internal auditors, external auditors and the Head of Internal Assessment of the Audit Committee and the external and Audit separately at least once a year.
All Directors have access internal auditors using an external facilitator to the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings.
2009 internal audit programme and the proposed 2010 programme Responsibilities: The main responsibilities of the Audit The continuing independence of the external auditors.
Committee are: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Non-audit services: The Committee has reconfirmed its Company, including interim management statements, and policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by any formal announcements relating to the Companys Deloitte LLP.
It determined three categories of services: financial performance, reviewing significant financial Approved e. g. audit and related assurance services, reporting judgements contained in them Permitted e. g. tax compliance and due diligence and To review the internal audit programme and ensure that the Not Permitted e. g. design implementation of financial internal audit function is adequately resourced and has information systems and quasi management services.
appropriate standing with the Company The Committee, the Company, and Deloitte LLP all monitor To review managements and the internal auditors reports compliance with the policy and review at each meeting the on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial fees earned and the estimates for the year.
control, financial reporting and risk management The Group has complied with the policy throughout the year.
Where appropriate, non-audit services have been provided by To consider the appointment, reappointment and removal companies other than Deloitte LLP to safeguard auditor of the external auditors and assess independence of the objectivity and independence.
external auditors, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 63 Corporate Governance Report 63 Auditors independence: The independence, objectivity and Representatives from across the Serco business were invited effectiveness of the external auditors have been examined by to the meetings, as appropriate, to discuss aspects of their the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms business or give presentations on specific topics.
A senior of engagement, remuneration and proposal for partner rotation.
group of the GMB, the Executive Team, continued to operate The appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every throughout 2009.
Also chaired by the Chief Executive, it five years and, on that basis, the 2009 audit will be the last comprised four members including the Executive Directors, year of Nigel Mercers tenure: he will be replaced by Richard and had responsibility for the oversight of all aspects of the Knights, subject to shareholders approval of Deloitte LLPs day-to-day operations and trading of the Group.
The Executive reappointment referred to below.
There are no contractual Team met 11 times during the year.
obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of With effect from 1 January 2010, a new senior management external auditor.
The Committee recommended to the structure has been introduced, which replaces that which was Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment in place during 2009.
A new Executive Committee has been at the forthcoming 2010 Annual General Meeting.
This established which is chaired by the Chief Executive and recommendation has been accepted and will be proposed comprises twelve other members, including the Group Finance to shareholders.
Director, Regional Chief Executives and other selected corporate function heads.
The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board to ensure the effective direction The Nomination Committee and control of the business and to deliver the Groups longMembership: The Nomination Committee is chaired by Kevin term strategy and goals and will meet on a monthly basis.
Beeston and comprises Margaret Ford, David Richardson, Leonard V. Broese van Groenou and Tom Corcoran.
The Committee met three times during 2009.
Relationship with shareholders The Companys relationship with shareholders is given a high Responsibilities: Matters considered during the year included priority.
The Annual Review and Accounts is available to all succession and contingency planning, Board structure and shareholders and, until 2009, a shorter Annual Review and composition and the appointment of a successor to the Summary Financial Statement was also available.
Due to the Chairman, Kevin Beeston: at the meeting to discuss this latter increasing length and complexity of this summary document it item, Kevin Beeston stood down as Committee Chairman, a has been decided that we will no longer produce this and all role assumed by Margaret Ford.
No appointments were made shareholders who receive hard copy shareholder documents to the Board during the year.
The Committee has responsibility will receive the full annual review for this and future years.
for the identification and nomination, for the approval of the Shareholders were also advised at the time of our half-year Board, of candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they results announcement that we were no longer producing a arise, engaging external search consultants as and when printed report of those results.
those results was issued and a copy of the full stock exchange The Nominations Committee completed a robust tender announcement was available on request.
process which resulted in the appointment of a firm of external Regular trading updates are published ahead of close periods executive search consultants being engaged for the and before the annual general meeting by press release.
In appointment of a new Chairman.
In consultation with the addition, press releases and stock exchange announcements chosen search consultants, a specification was drawn up of are made regarding significant contracts or transactions.
All the role and attributes were identified that were felt to be trading announcements are also posted on the Groups essential for its effective performance, including what would website www.
be considered acceptable in terms of time commitment.
Our communications strategy remains under review, including A rigorous selection process is currently in progress and making greater use of online media.
Shareholders will be is being led, on behalf of the Nomination Committee, by contacted at the relevant time regarding any changes which Margaret Ford, Senior Independent Director.
The Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies together with the Directors remuneration, emoluments and Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the annual interests in the Companys share capital are set out in the general meeting to question the Chairman and through him the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 80. chairs of the various Board committees and other Directors.
Details of the meeting are set out in the notice of annual general meeting which is sent to shareholders and which Executive Committees contains the text of the resolutions to be proposed and Throughout 2009, the Board delegated responsibility for the explanatory notes.
Shareholders attending will be advised of day-to-day management of the business to the Global the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution, in the Management Board GMB.
The GMB, chaired by the Chief categories for and against together with the number of Executive, Christopher Hyman, comprised 17 senior managers votes withheld.
This information is also posted on the representing each of the Groups operating divisions and a Groups website www.
number of functional heads, including both Executive Directors.
The GMB met formally four times during the year, over two days at a time, to review the Groups activities and discuss management and operational issues.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:06 Page 64 64 Institutional investors Business conduct The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular Serco Group operates within a management system that dialogue with institutional investors.
The Chairman also meets defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied with institutional investors from time to time and as required.
Integral to this are our policies on Ethics The Companys investor relations programme and day-to-day and Business Conduct and Human Rights that apply to all activities are managed by the Head of Investor Relations.
As business divisions, operating companies and business units part of the role of Senior Independent Director, Margaret Ford throughout the world.
These two policies outline the Groups is also available to meet shareholders should it be required.
position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial inducements, human rights and In addition, further dialogue continued during 2009, ahead of legal and regulatory compliance.
They apply to Directors and the Companys annual general meeting, between the Chairman to all employees regardless of their position or location.
of the Remuneration Committee and the Companys largest Recognising that ethical dilemmas may arise in a growing shareholders and representative bodies in connection with the company the Group has introduced an Ethics Consultation Companys triennial review of executive remuneration.
Process that is to be followed to determine the Groups The Board receives an investor relations report on a quarterly position on particular issues.
To support this process an Ethics basis.
This reviews share price movements and valuation, Committee has been established comprising the Executive changes in the share register, the Companys recent and Team, with a quorum of three and chaired by the Chief planned investor relations activities, communication with Executive.
As the leadership of the Company, the Executive shareholders, analyst recommendations and significant news Team will make any fine judgements about what it considers from the market and support services sector.
The report acceptable or otherwise.
ensures that the Board has a clear understanding of the Serco has established a dedicated whistleblowing hotline so Companys investor relations performance.
that employees can seek guidance or express any concerns on Group-related issues.
The Company Secretary investigates any Group website issues raised independently and reports back to the Board.
Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of The Group website www.
com is a primary source of retaliation.
The Group maintains a position of impartiality with information on the Group.
The site includes an area tailored for respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute investors, including information such as an archive of all funds to any political party.
It does, however, contribute to the reports, announcements, presentations and webcasts, share public debate of policy issues that may affect it in the countries price tools, the terms of reference for all Board Committees in which it operates.
and information on voting at the annual general meeting.
It also has a link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and to vote on Internal control and risk management the resolutions set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
Further to the comments above regarding Corporate Assurance, details of the Groups internal control and risk management processes are contained in pages 54 to 57 of the Our performance section.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes.
Going concern The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
This is discussed in the Finance Review starting on page 38.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Joanne Roberts Secretary 25 February 2010
