Governance Governance Fiona Smith General Counsel and Company Secretary Compliance with the Combined Code The way we are structured The Combined Code sets out standards of good practice that The board listed companies are expected to follow in areas such as board The role of the Severn Trent board is to promote and protect the composition and development, remuneration, accountability and interests of the group, setting highest standards of governance and audit and relations with shareholders.
This report describes how corporate behaviour.
Severn Trent has applied the principles of good corporate The board has processes in place regarding: governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2006 its own tasks and activities board membership and administration : Combined Code.
the matters specifically reserved for board decision making, the authority delegated to the Chief Executive CEO, the Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009, Severn Trent was accountability of the CEO for that authority, and guidance on compliant in its application of the Combined Code, with the exception managing the relationship between the board and the CEO: and of Code Provision A.
3.2 which requires that at least half the board, the boundaries on CEO action CEO limits.
excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Martin Houston An approved Board Governance document outlines those processes retired from the board as an independent non-executive director and is available on our website www.
com on 23 January 2009 and the board announced its intention to commence the search for a suitable independent non-executive Membership director to appoint to the board at that date.
Gordon Fryett was The board consists of a non-executive Chairman, five executive appointed to the board on 22 May 2009, effective from 1 July 2009. directors and five independent non-executive directors, ensuring an appropriate balance of experience and independence.
The board Review of governance framework announced the appointment of Gordon Fryett with effect from 1 July In 2008, we undertook a review of the Severn Trent Governance 2009.
Gordon will also sit on the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The purpose of the review was to ensure that: The members of the board are: the framework accurately reflected recent changes to the Severn Non-executive directors Executive directors Trent organisation and structure: Sir John Egan Chairman Tony Wray CEO the framework set out and reinforced Severn Trents values and Dr Bernard Bulkin Tony Ballance supported the Severn Trent group in working and behaving in the Richard Davey Martin Kane right way: Gordon Fryett Michael McKeon the risk and assurance processes were a robust and integral part Martin Lamb Andy Smith of the framework: and Baroness Noakes the framework reflected best governance practices.
appointed with effect from 1 July 2009 The review completed in November 2008.
We have now embarked on a plan to embed the framework throughout Severn Trent.
Chairman The Severn Trent Governance Framework has three key elements: Sir John Egan joined the board in October 2004 and became Chairman on 1 January 2005.
The role of the Chairman is to the way Severn Trent is structured, our organisation is structured facilitate the work of the board at its meetings, and be responsible to allow for effective and efficient decision making with clear for ensuring that the principles and processes of the board are accountabilities: maintained in line with the Board Governance document.
The the way we work at Severn Trent, our Code of Conduct sets out Chairman sets the agenda for each meeting in consultation with the the way in which we work at Severn Trent and comprises our CEO and Company Secretary.
Any director may request that an item vision and values.
The Code of Conduct is supported by our be added to the agenda.
The Chairman has authority to act and policies, standards, procedures and processes.
Our values, set speak for the board between its meetings, including engaging with out in our Code of Conduct, can be viewed in full on our website.
The Chairman reports to the board and committee Our values are supported by 15 high level policies which define Chairmen as appropriate on decisions and actions taken between in more detail how we will carry out our responsibilities and the meetings of the board.
The Chairman also meets with the nongeneral rules under which we will operate.
Our policies are executive directors without the executive directors present to approved by the board: and consider their performance and provide feedback.
the way we assure our performance, management assurance is provided by a combination of effective management processes Senior independent non-executive director and embedded risk and compliance activities.
Independent Richard Davey is the senior independent non-executive director.
assurance is provided primarily by internal audit, by our He chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit independent external auditors and by other external bodies.
The board has agreed that Richard Davey will act as Chairman of the board in the event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
The non-executive 24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The role of the Severn Trent board is to promote and protect the interests of the group, setting highest standards of governance and corporate behaviour.
directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, meet The board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, where there is an committees of the board are established to deal with specific issues opportunity for them to appraise the Chairmans performance.
or approvals, as and when necessary.
During the financial year, 10 committee meetings of the board were convened to consider such matters as results announcements and the submission of the Severn Non-executive directors role and independence Trent Water Limited Draft and Final Business Plans to Ofwat.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the group such as In addition to the formal board meetings, two full day strategy corporate finance, general finance, corporate strategy, environmental sessions were held this year, where the board and executive matters, general management and corporate governance.
They also management team together considered the cost of capital for the Price provide independent challenge and rigour in the boards deliberations.
Review 2009, the business plan for 2010-15, as submitted to Ofwat and the opportunities presented by competition in the water sector.
The board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and considers them all to be independent in character and judgment and Papers, including minutes of board committees held since the within the definition of this term in the Combined Code.
previous board meeting and performance reports are circulated in advance of each meeting.
Reappointment There is an agreed procedure in place which allows directors to take At this years annual general meeting AGM, to be held on independent professional advice in the course of their duties and all 21 July 2009 it is proposed that the directors listed below stand directors have access to the advice and services of the Company for reappointment.
Where a director has a concern over any unresolved Sir John Egan matter he she is entitled to require the Company Secretary to Tony Ballance minute that concern.
Should the director later resign over the issue, Tony Wray the Chairman will bring it to the attention of the board.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, a total of Board attendance in 2008 09 three directors being nearest to, but not more than one third of the Sir John Egan 11 11 Martin Lamb 9 11 board are required to stand for reappointment at least every three Tony Ballance 11 11 Michael McKeon 11 11 years.
Directors chosen for reappointment will vary and these Dr Bernard Bulkin 11 11 Baroness Noakes 11 11 directors have the longest service since their last reappointment.
Richard Davey 11 11 Andy Smith 11 11 The Nominations Committee formally reviewed the performance, Martin Houston 8 10 Tony Wray 11 11 contribution and commitment of each of the retiring directors in Martin Kane 11 11 March 2009.
The committee supports and recommends their reappointment to the board.
The committee has confirmed that Induction each director standing for reappointment continues to perform well On joining the board, directors are provided with a comprehensive on an individual and collective basis, making a valuable contribution induction pack, tailored to their individual requirements, including to the boards deliberations and demonstrating commitment to the notes on the group structure, the regulatory framework of the long term interests of the company.
operating businesses within the group, financial reports and In addition, Gordon Fryett will stand for election having been business plans and information on the governance framework.
appointed to the board since last years annual general meeting.
Meetings are arranged with members of the executive management team, management and external advisers who provide support to the relevant board committees the directors may serve on.
Visits to Administration operational sites across the group are also arranged for directors The Chairman has prime responsibility for the effective workings joining the board.
The board has reserved the following for its own consideration: Continuing professional development the appointment of the CEO, directors, the Company Secretary Regular seminars, arranged to coincide with board meetings, and the Director of Internal Audit: are held to update and refresh the boards knowledge and the strategy and budgets of the company: understanding on a variety of topics.
the Group Authorisation Arrangements which set out the groups delegated approval limits: Succession planning decisions regarding the company and its subsidiaries required to The board plans for its own succession with the assistance of the be made by the companys Group Authorisation Arrangements, Nominations Committee.
In doing this, the board: constitutional documents, statute or external regulation: and considers the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to the approval or adoption of documents including the publication of allow it to meet the strategic vision for the business: reports and statements to shareholders, required to be made by the board by the companys Group Authorisation Arrangements, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Governance assesses the skills, knowledge and experience currently Remuneration represented: The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 40 to 53. identifies any skills, knowledge and experience not adequately represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure a Interests candidate is selected who brings those qualities: and No director had a material interest at any time during the year reviews how board performance might be enhanced, both at an in any contract of significance with the company or any of its individual director level and for the board as a whole.
When considering new appointments to the board, the Nominations Conflicts of interests Committee oversees the preparation of a position specification that is provided to an independent recruitment organisation retained to The Companies Act 2006 the Act rules on directors conflicts conduct a global search.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge came into force on 1 October 2008.
These rules provide and experience deemed necessary, the specification contains statutory duties: criteria such as: a duty not to accept benefits from third parties: a proven track record of creating shareholder value: a duty to disclose any interest in a proposed transaction or unquestioned integrity: arrangement with the company and a separate and independent a commitment to the highest standards of governance: duty to disclose any interest in an existing transaction or having the required time available to devote to the job: arrangement with the company transactional conflicts : and strategic mind set, an awareness of market leadership, a duty to avoid conflicts of interest situational conflicts outstanding monitoring skills: unless authorised.
a preparedness to question, challenge and openly assess: and The Act allows board authorisation of situational conflicts where the an independent point of view.
directors have the relevant powers.
The shareholders of the company Newly appointed directors must submit themselves to shareholders approved a change to the articles of association at the 2008 AGM to for election at the first AGM following their appointment.
allow the board to authorise conflicts.
In September 2008, the directors were requested to complete a Performance and effectiveness reviews questionnaire to determine whether any actual or potential conflicts During the last financial year the board participated in a formal needed authorisation.
The board fully reviewed the completed evaluation of its own performance and that of individual directors.
questionnaires and noted that no conflicts arose.
To ensure independence and objectivity the review was undertaken For any actual or potential conflicts that arise post 1 October 2008, by Praesta Partners LLP.
the following procedure has been adopted by the board to consider The three core conclusions from the formal independent review and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has an were that: interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company: 1 the board is effective across key aspects of its role and supporting processes: the director will notify the Chairman and Company Secretary of the actual or potential conflict: 2 the directors wish to continue to move the emphasis of the the Nominations Committee will consider the notification and boards attention from detailed operational issues to long term determine whether it needs to be proposed to a board meeting strategic issues: and for authorisation: and 3 the board want to structure the future corporate meetings the conflict will be considered by the board at a scheduled calendars and content of the agendas to support the move board meeting.
Full details of the conflict will be sent to directors in advance of the Collectively, the board is satisfied that the actions undertaken meeting.
If there is a major conflict or it is decided that authorisation during 2008 09 have aided it in achieving its objective.
The board should not wait until the next scheduled meeting, the board would be is also satisfied that it has all of the necessary skills, experience and asked to authorise the conflict by way of written resolution.
qualities to lead the company.
In addition to reviewing any conflicts notified and proposing them for authorisation by the board, the Nominations Committee monitors changes to previously notified conflicts and any conditions imposed.
Half yearly reports are made to the board of all directors conflicts and directors are reminded from time to time of their obligations.
An annual review of conflicts is carried out and this is incorporated into the year end process of verifying directors interests.
26 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Insurance and indemnities The Chairman, Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the Director of Regulation, the Group Financial Severn Trent purchases directors and officers liability and Controller, the Company Secretary and the external auditor normally indemnity insurance to cover its directors and officers against the attend, by invitation, all meetings of the committee.
Other members costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against of senior management are also invited to attend as appropriate to them in that capacity, and in respect of damages resulting from the present reports.
In performing its duties, the committee has access unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
to the services of the Director of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and external professional advisers.
Terms and conditions of appointment The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors are The committee follows an agreed annual work plan.
It reviews, with available for inspection by any person at the companys registered members of management and the internal and external auditors, the office during normal business hours and will be available at the AGM.
companys financial announcements, including the annual report and accounts, to shareholders and associated documentation.
Board committees It places particular emphasis on their fair presentation and the reasonableness of the judgmental factors and appropriateness of The board has established four permanent committees to assist in significant accounting policies used in their preparation.
At each the execution of its responsibilities and has delegated some of its meeting, the committee receives a report from the Director of responsibilities to those board committees.
The committees assist Internal Audit concerning the companys systems of internal control, the board by focusing on their specific activities, fulfilling their roles including any significant new issues and actions taken on previously and responsibilities, reporting to the board on decisions and actions reported issues.
The committee also reviews the annual work plan taken, and making any necessary recommendations.
for the groups internal audit function.
The committee reports to the The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations board regarding the effectiveness of the groups overall systems of Committees the Principal Committees comply with the provisions internal control including the risk management systems in relation of the Combined Code and are available for inspection, together to the financial reporting process.
with the terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility The committee additionally reviews the integrity of the processes that Committee, on the companys website www.
com or ensure the quality and reliability of the information within the annual may be obtained on written request from the Company Secretary at regulatory return June Return of Severn Trent Water Limited, the address given on the back cover.
submitted to the Water Services Regulation Authority Ofwat Each of the committees has reviewed its effectiveness and terms and the integrity of the processes that ensure compliance with the of reference during the year and any necessary actions have been requirements of the annual principal statement submitted to Ofwat, identified and reported to the board.
including the intentions and the rationale behind tariff proposals for the coming charging year and compliance with licence Condition E. The committees of the board, their roles and membership are The committee receives reports from the Reporter, an independent as follows.
professional appointed by Severn Trent Water Limited and approved by Ofwat.
The Reporters role is to act as a professional commentator Audit Committee and certifier on the regulated activities of Severn Trent Water Limited.
This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the The committee receives reports from the external auditor and committee is to assist the board in discharging its responsibilities for regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external the integrity of the companys financial statements, the assessment auditors in the absence of management.
The Chairman of the of the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls and committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the board on the monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and committees work and the board receives a copy of the minutes of external auditors.
The full terms of reference for the committee can each meeting of the committee.
be found on the companys website www.
com and are also available from the Company Secretary.
Internal audit The groups internal audit function reports to management on the Baroness Noakes, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants effectiveness of the companys systems of internal controls, the of England and Wales, is a former senior partner of KPMG and adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard former member of the Court of the Bank of England.
Richard Davey the groups assets and resources.
The internal audit function and is the non-executive Chairman of London Capital Holdings Plc and Director of Internal Audit are employed by Severn Trent Plc.
Through a non-executive director of Yorkshire Building Society and the the Director of Internal Audit, the internal audit function provides former Head of Investment Banking at N M Rothschild & Sons.
objective assurance on risks and controls to the committee.
The board is satisfied that these directors have recent and relevant financial experience.
The plans, the level of resources and the budget of the internal audit function are reviewed at least annually by the committee.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Governance External auditor key CR risks and opportunities and to monitor progress.
The full terms of reference for the committee can be found on the Deloitte LLP Deloitte was appointed auditor of the company in companys website www.
com and are also available 2005.
Following the annual external audit effectiveness review from the Company Secretary.
the committee recommended that the auditor be proposed for reappointment at the annual general meeting.
Deloitte audits all The Corporate Responsibility Committee assists the board by focusing significant subsidiaries of the group.
on the following activities, reporting to the board on decisions and actions taken, and making any necessary recommendations: During the year, the company reviewed and approved a formal policy on the provision of non audit services aimed at safeguarding review the effectiveness of the groups policies and systems for and supporting the independence and objectivity of the external identifying and managing the health, safety, environment and auditor.
The revised policy aims to provide greater clarity on community risks that are material to the group, including those what services may and may not be provided by the groups reports made under the groups Whistleblowing Policy: external auditor.
review the policies and systems within the group for ensuring compliance with health, safety, environment and community The policy sets out the approach to be taken by the group when regulatory requirements: using the services of the external auditor, including requiring that review the performance of the group having regard to the impact certain services provided by the external auditor are pre-approved of health, safety, environment and community decisions and by the Audit Committee or Audit Committee Chairman.
It actions on employees, communities and third parties and on the distinguishes between those services where an independent view is reputation of Severn Trent: and required and that should be performed by the external auditor such review the quality and integrity of corporate responsibility as statutory and non statutory audit and assurance work, reporting to external stakeholders.
prohibited services where the independence of the external auditor could be threatened and they must not be used, and other non During the year, the Corporate Responsibility Committees agenda audit services where the external auditor may be used.
Non audit included such items as the review and recommendation for services where the external auditor may be used include not approval to the board the companys Health and Safety Policy, exclusively : non recurring internal controls and risk management Corporate Responsibility Policy, Community Policy, Environment reviews i. e. excluding outsourcing of internal audit work, advice on Policy and Whistleblowing Policy: approval of the groups annual financial reporting and regulatory matters, due diligence on Corporate Responsibility Measures and Targets: and the review of acquisitions and disposals, project assurance and advice, tax the introduction of new Employee and Contractor Safety Rules for compliance services, and employee tax services.
The approval of the group: the group supply chain process: and, the consideration the Audit Committee or its Chairman is always required if a non of a report on reducing the groups carbon footprint.
audit service provided by the auditors is expected to cost more than More information on our approach to corporate responsibility can be 100,000 or if non audit fees for the year would thereby exceed found at www.
com  the amount of the audit fee.
Annually, the committee reviews information provided by the Corporate Responsibility Committee Members in 2008 09 external auditor confirming its independence and objectivity Dr Bernard Bulkin Chairman Martin Houston within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and Sir John Egan Tony Wray professional standards.
retired 23 January Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non audit Secretary services are provided in note 7 to the accounts page 68.
Kerry Porritt Audit Committee Members in 2008 09 Corporate Responsibility Committee Attendance in 2008 09 Baroness Noakes Chairman Richard Davey Dr Bernard Bulkin Sir John Egan 5 5 Dr Bernard Bulkin 5 5 Secretary Martin Houston 1 1 Kerry Porritt Tony Wray 5 5 Audit Committee Attendance in 2008 09 Nominations Committee Baroness Noakes 4 4 This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Dr Bernard Bulkin 4 4 Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The Richard Davey 4 4 main purpose of the committee is to assist the board by keeping the composition of the board under review and conducting a rigorous Corporate Responsibility Committee and transparent process when making or renewing appointments of The purpose of the committee is to provide guidance and direction directors to the board.
It also advises the board on issues of to the groups corporate responsibility CR programme, review the 28 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 directors conflicts of interest and independence.
The full terms the communication to shareholders on remuneration policy and of reference for the committee can be found on the companys the committees work on behalf of the board.
com and are also available from the Further details on the work of the committee during the year Company Secretary.
can be found in the remuneration report on pages 40 to 53.
The committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the A resolution to approve the Directors remuneration report will board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and be proposed at the AGM.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conflicts Remuneration Committee Members in 2008 09 of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to Richard Davey Chairman Sir John Egan the company.
The committee monitors the independence of each Dr Bernard Bulkin Martin Houston non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning retired 23 January such to the board.
The results of these reviews are important when the board considers succession planning and the election and Secretary reappointment of directors.
Members of the committee take no part Fiona Smith in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
Remuneration Committee Attendance in 2008 09 During the year the board accepted the committees Sir John Egan 6 6 recommendations that Gordon Fryett join the board.
The appointment Dr Bernard Bulkin 6 6 of Gordon Fryett as a new non-executive director from 1 July 2009 Richard Davey 6 6 also helps to maintain the balance of the board in the context of the Martin Houston 5 5 retirement of Martin Houston during 2009.
In respect of Mr Fryetts appointment the committee engaged an external search agency to Company Secretary help it identify suitable candidates with the skills and capabilities All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company required and to assist with the preparation of an interview list.
Secretary, Fiona Smith, and the Company Secretariat team.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the board Nominations Committee Members in 2008 09 operates in accordance with the governance framework it has Sir John Egan Chairman Martin Lamb adopted and that there are good information flows to the board Dr Bernard Bulkin Baroness Noakes and its committees and between senior management and the Richard Davey Tony Wray non-executive directors.
Martin Houston The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a retired 23 January matter for consideration by the board as a whole.
Secretary Fiona Smith Chief Executive The board has delegated all responsibility beyond its matters Nominations Committee Attendance in 2008 09 reserved to the CEO to achieve the companys strategy.
The CEO, Tony Wray, is empowered to take all decisions and actions that Sir John Egan 3 3 further the companys strategy and which in his judgment are Dr Bernard Bulkin 3 3 reasonable, having regard to the CEO limits set out in the Richard Davey 3 3 companys Group Authorisation Arrangements.
Martin Houston 2 2 Martin Lamb 3 3 The CEO is supported by the executive management team, Baroness Noakes 3 3 who together comprise the Executive Committee.
During the year, Tony Wray 3 3 the Executive Committee comprised the executive directors and senior executive managers responsible for key operational and Remuneration Committee central functions.
The Remuneration Committee assists the board by focusing on the following activities, reporting to the board on decisions and actions Executive Committee taken, and making any necessary recommendations: The Executive Committee is chaired by the CEO, Tony Wray, and oversees the development and execution of the Severn Trent the remuneration policy and its application to the CEO and strategy.
It also has accountability for achieving business results.
executives reporting to the CEO: The terms of reference of the Executive Committee are available on the adoption of annual and longer term incentive plans: the companys website www.
com or may be obtained determination of levels of reward to the CEO and approval of on written request from the Company Secretary at the address reward to executives reporting to the CEO: given on the back cover.
guidance to the Chairman on the annual evaluation of the CEO: and Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Governance The visit to the water treatment facility enabled us to get a good oversight of the processes involved.
I was particularly interested in your ability Shareholder 2008 Networking to produce electricity from the sludge Programme to power the process itself and to sell the surplus to the National Grid.
Talent review and succession planning obligations to comply with local requirements and the Company Secretariat will define these.
Talent review and succession planning are annual company wide processes designed to give Severn Trent a clear and objective view of Group Authorisation Arrangements the capability of our current and potential leadership population to deliver our future business performance.
The Group Authorisation Arrangements GAA are the framework through which the Severn Trent Plc board authorises the right They also enable the organisation to focus its company wide future people, at the right level, to take important decisions as we manage leadership development activity and develop succession plans for legal, financial and administrative issues throughout the group.
GAA are designed to facilitate good control, efficient decision In 2007 08 the processes included Executive Committee to middle making and demonstrable compliance.
manager levels across the group, and employees at the next level The flow of authority is from the Severn Trent Plc board.
The executive team identified from the talent of certain issues, the delegated authority is subject to an obligation review individuals with the potential to develop as successors for to work with specialist Corporate Centre Departments such as their own roles and for a role or roles in their individual leadership Taxation, Treasury, Finance and Company Secretariat that provide teams.
As a result each Executive Committee member has a additional expertise and a group wide perspective.
succession plan, highlighting both roles where we are at risk as there is no or little internal resource identified as a successor and Reporting obligations potential future roles for discussion with individuals identified in As a publicly listed company, the company has a range of reporting the succession plan, in order to inform their development plans.
obligations to meet which are set out by law and regulation.
The Individuals identified as having potential to be future leaders are company is committed to the promotion of investor confidence by then invited to participate in a range of development activities or taking steps within its power to ensure that trade in its securities programmes, depending on their needs, to ensure we maximise their takes place in an efficient and informed market.
ability to realise their potential.
The company recognises the importance of effective communication The way we work as a key part of building shareholder value and that, to prosper and Code of Conduct achieve growth, it must among other things earn the trust of security holders, employees, customers, suppliers and communities, Our Code of Conduct provides a common framework for all Severn by being open in its communications and consistently delivering on Trent employees irrespective of their specific job, direct employer its commitments.
The company announces its results on a half yearly basis and Further details of the Code of Conduct can be found on our website complies with its requirement to make interim management www.
Governance of subsidiaries Shareholders The board of the listed company, Severn Trent Plc, is the same as The board recognises the importance of representing and promoting that of its regulated water subsidiary, Severn Trent Water Limited.
the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to This decision was taken in 2007 when it was decided to integrate shareholders for the performance and activities of the company.
the management of the listed company with the management of the regulated entity to gain greater focus, transparency and effectiveness around the regulated business.
Institutional shareholders and analysts Presentations are made to shareholders and analysts following the The two companies operate as distinct legal entities.
The boards release of the interim and year end results.
The CEO and Finance have regard to the Severn Trent Plc Board Governance document Director meet shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if and the Severn Trent Water Limited Matters Reserved to the board, appropriate, the senior independent non-executive director are and are assisted through the management of separate agendas, available to meet shareholders if required.
The board receives meetings and minutes by the Company Secretariat and are advised written feedback following meetings with institutional shareholders.
in their meetings by the Company Secretary where appropriate.
Subsidiary company boards are required to be managed Retail shareholder engagement strategy scrupulously with respect to all legal, fiscal and administrative The board has an active shareholder engagement strategy, the matters.
In particular, the relationships between Severn Trent Water main elements of which are set out below.
Limited, the regulated entity, and our non-regulated companies The annual report and accounts is the principal means of such as Severn Trent Services are monitored and controlled to communicating with shareholders.
E-communications were ensure that we comply with our Ofwat obligations on arms length approved by shareholders as an alternative means of receiving transactions.
Certain overseas subsidiaries may have specific company information at the 2007 annual general meeting.
As at 30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Everyone explained their part in the work of the company clearly, and showed that it has a commercial workforce.
Shareholder 2008 Networking Programme 31 March 2009, 42,773 shareholders receive company The exhibition area planned for the 2009 AGM will include communications via electronic methods whilst 26,323 shareholders informative, and some interactive, stands based around a selection continue to receive communications by post.
of the companys operational areas of the business and approach to corporate responsibility.
com, was redesigned and relaunched in May 2008.
The relaunched website is now At the 2008 AGM, 52 shareholders registered for Severn Trents easier to navigate and use and contains an archive of annual Shareholder Networking Programme.
The programme allows a reports together with other information relevant to investors.
This small number of shareholders the opportunity to find out first hand includes comprehensive share price information, financial results how the company works.
The 2008 site visit was fully attended and shareholders spent a day From July 2009, to coincide with the companys final dividend, the visiting one of our Customer Relations sites and a sewage treatment company is offering a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details works in Derbyshire accompanied by two of our executive directors.
of the DRIP were sent to shareholders in January and June 2009 Our shareholders attended a small number of presentations informing and are available on the company website and the website of them of the business improvements being made in each of the Equiniti, our Registrars.
Customer Relations, Water and Waste Water service areas and also had an opportunity to observe and speak with our employees.
Further shareholder information can be found on pages 115 to 116.
We received very constructive feedback from the visits and the board encourages those shareholders attending the 2009 AGM to Annual General Meeting register for this years visit.
The Severn Trent Plc AGM will take place at 2pm on 21 July 2009 at the International Convention Centre in central Birmingham.
The way we assure our performance The AGM is shareholders opportunity to feedback to the company Internal controls on performance, management and the way we work in a very The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal direct fashion through the way they vote either in favour of the control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board reviews the resolution, against the resolution or by withholding their vote so effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, that it does not count either for or against.
It is also shareholders operational, compliance and risk management, at least annually in opportunity to meet informally with directors and senior accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the management before and after the meeting and ask formal questions guidance set out within it.
The system of internal control is reviewed during the meeting.
The internal control system can only The board encourages shareholders to attend the companys AGM provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and exercise their right to vote.
The notice of meeting and related misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially The board reviews the risk management process and the separate issue.
effectiveness of the system of internal control through the Audit Presentations are made on the groups activities and performance Committee.
The board also keeps under review ways in which to prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the enhance the control and audit arrangements in the group.
The Audit opportunity to ask questions of the board and present their views.
Committee receives reports every six months from the CEO on the The Chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration significant risks and uncertainties faced by the group, an assessment and Nominations Committees, together with all other directors will of the effectiveness of controls over each of those risks and an action attend the AGM.
plan to improve controls where this has been assessed as necessary.
Any significant control weaknesses that have been identified as In 2008, the company introduced electronic voting at the AGM, requiring remedy are also reported to the Audit Committee.
The allowing shareholders present at the meeting to register one vote internal audit department provides objective assurance and advice on per share held.
The company intends to continue with this initiative risk management and control.
The external auditors also report on at the 2009 AGM.
Results of the poll on each resolution, including significant control issues to this committee.
details of the votes for and against registered prior to and at the meeting, proxy votes and the number of abstentions will be The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing process displayed at the meeting.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the group have been in place for the year The poll results and a list of questions and answers from the AGM to 31 March 2009 and up to the date of the approval of the will be made available on our website after the meeting.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
