Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the provisions and principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year to December 31, 2009 the Company has, in the Directors opinion, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board The Board currently comprises, in addition to the Chairman, two Executive and five Non-Executive Directors and meets at least five times a year.
The Non-Executive Directors bring judgement which is independent of that of management to Board deliberations.
The Executive Directors have responsibility for day-to-day business operations.
The Board is responsible for the overall management, strategic direction, general affairs and performance of the Group.
It discharges its responsibilities through regularly scheduled meetings and ad hoc meetings, as may be required.
The Board has formally reserved specific matters to itself for determination and approval which include strategic issues, the annual budget, changes in share capital, approval of the Groups financial statements and approval of material contracts.
In addition, it reviews the Groups internal controls and risk management policies and approves its Code of Ethics.
It also monitors and evaluates the performance of the Group as a whole, through engaging with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and members of the Leadership Team, as appropriate.
Matters not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to the Leadership Team and to various other board committees whose functions are described below.
Board members receive detailed information from the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, members of the Leadership Team and other senior managers to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
All Directors have access to the advice and guidance of the Company Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent advice at the Groups expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
The Board is of the opinion that each of its members has the knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
Biographical details of the members of the Board who served during the year and up to the date of this report are shown on pages 32 and 33.
Independence of Directors The Board considers Mr David Kappler, Mr Patrick Langlois, Dr Jeffrey Leiden, Ms Kate Nealon and Mr David Stout to be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board views each of these Non-Executive Directors to be independent of management, independent in judgement and character and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board also considered Dr Barry Price, Dr Michael Rosenblatt and Mr David Mott to have been Independent Non-Executive Directors whilst they were members of the Board.
Mr Emmens and Dr Leiden are both directors of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.
The Board, when making its determination on the independence of Dr Leiden, took into account his character and independence of thought and judgement and the Board members experiences of working with Dr Leiden over the last three years before he joined the Vertex board.
The Board concluded that in its opinion Dr Leiden remains independent in judgement and character, his commitment to the Group is undiminished and his performance continues to be effective.
As reported in the 2008 Annual Report, the Board, when making its determination on the independence of Dr Price, gave particular consideration to the fact that Dr Price has been a serving member of the Board for 13 years, that the Combined Code suggests that length of service of nine years or more is relevant to a determination of independence and that re-appointment should be subject to rigorous review.
The Board concluded at the time that, in its opinion, Dr Price remained independent in judgement and character, his commitment to the Group was undiminished and his performance continued to be effective.
Throughout 2009 and up to the date of publication of this report, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised Non-Executive Directors, determined by the Board, to be independent.
Roles and Responsibilities of Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The offices of Chairman, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held separately.
Those of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director are held by a single Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman is responsible for the conduct of the Board and ensures that Board discussions are conducted in such a way that all views are taken into account and so that no individual Director or small group of Directors dominates proceedings.
The Deputy Chairmans role is to provide support and guidance to the Chairman and to deputize for the Chairman as required.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for chairing meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman and Executive Directors present, leading the NonExecutive Directors in evaluating annually the performance of the Chairman, attending sufficient meetings with major shareholders to gain a balanced understanding of the issues which are important to such shareholders and any concerns that they may have and being available for consultation with shareholders on any matters of concern.
The Vice Chairmans role is to provide support and guidance to the Chairman, be available for consultation with US based shareholders on any matters of concern and to deputize for the Deputy Chairman.
The Chief Executive Officer has the overall responsibility for running the business on a day-to-day basis and chairs the Leadership Team.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Vice Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined, separate and have been approved by the Board.
More details of these can be found on Shires website www.
Senior Independent Director Mr David Kappler is the Senior Independent Director and during the year has chaired meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman and the Executive Directors being present.
40 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement 1 Board and Committee meetings The attendance of the Directors at Board and Committees meetings held in 2009 was as follows: Audit, Science & Board Board Compliance & Remuneration Nomination Technology Directors scheduled ad hoc Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee 2 Matthew Emmens 5 5 1 2 n a n a 5 5 n a Angus Russell 5 5 2 2 n a n a n a n a Graham Hetherington 5 5 2 2 n a n a n a n a 5 David Kappler 5 5 1 2 5 5 n a 5 5 n a Patrick Langlois 5 5 2 2 5 5 5 5 n a n a Dr Jeffrey Leiden 5 5 2 2 n a 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Kate Nealon 5 5 1 2 5 5 5 5 n a n a David Stout 1 1 n a n a n a n a n a Former Directors 5 David Mott 4 4 1 2 5 5 n a n a n a 3 5 Dr Barry Price 4 5 1 2 n a n a 4 4 3 5 4 Dr Michael Rosenblatt 4 5 2 2 n a 1 1 1 1 5 5 1 X y where x is the number of meetings attended and y is the number of meetings that could have been attended.
For example 2 4 indicates two meetings attended out of a possible four.
2 Matthew Emmens did not attend one ad hoc meeting due to a conflict of interest.
3 Dr Price was unable to attend one scheduled board meeting and one scheduled Science & Technology Committee meeting due to personal reasons and due to prior commitments he was unable to attend an additional Science & Technology Committee meeting.
4 Dr Rosenblatt was unable to attend one board meeting due to a conflict with a prior commitment.
5 Due to prior commitments a number of Directors were unable to attend one ad hoc board meeting.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met four times during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
Supply of information The Executive Directors and the Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board members in advance of any scheduled or ad hoc Board meeting.
Before decisions are made, consideration is given to the adequacy of information available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions are deferred if further information is required.
Appointment and re-election of Directors The Board has authority to appoint any person to be a Director to either fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so appointed must retire and offer himself for election at the next AGM.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board ordinarily for a term of two years.
At the expiration of the two year term Non-Executive Directors are not required to be re-elected by shareholders unless the expiration of the term coincides with a particular Non-Executive Directors turn to retire by rotation, but may be re-appointed by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed by the Board for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
No Director serves for more than three years without retiring and offering himself for re-election by shareholders.
The terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are made available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Board performance evaluation The Company engaged an independent external consultant to conduct the Board effectiveness evaluation review in 2009.
The Board considered the timing of the review to be appropriate, given that Mr Emmens and Mr Russell have been respectively Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since June 2008.
To ensure that the review was as effective as possible the comments made by Board members were non-attributable.
Each Board member completed a confidential questionnaire and then met individually in person with the external consultant.
The external consultant also attended Board and Committee meetings as an observer to review the culture and Board dynamics.
The review was broad ranging and included consideration of the quality of briefings received from management, whether the Boards time was well managed and whether sufficient time was reserved for the key issues facing the Company, the quality of discussion at meetings, the effectiveness of the Chairman, how well the Board Committees are functioning, views on individual contributions from Board members and the overall composition of the Board.
As part of the review the Board considered the transition of Mr Emmens to Chairman and Mr Russell to CEO and it concluded that the transitions had been very successful.
The Board also considered whether the Chairman and other members of the Board were able to devote sufficient time to their roles given their other commitments.
The Board concluded that Mr Emmens and the other members of the Board had been able to do so.
Each Board member received a report aggregating the responses and findings from the review.
The Board dedicated a meeting, facilitated by the external consultant, to review and discuss the findings of the evaluation.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 Committees of the Board The Board has established the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Science & Technology Committee and the recently formed Investment Committee together the Committees.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board, with the exception of the Investment Committee whose terms of reference will be tabled for approval at the Board meeting scheduled for April 2010.
The terms of reference of the Committees are available on Shires website www.
Details of each Committee are set out below.
1 Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee the ACR Committee has been established for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and financial reporting processes of the Group, the audit of its financial statements and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control framework.
It meets at least five times a year.
The members of the ACR Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
For further information about the ACR Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, please refer to the ACR Committee report on pages 46 and 47.
2 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing, reviewing and overseeing the implementation of the Companys compensation and benefits policy.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the members of the Leadership Team, other than the Executive Directors, is determined by the Chief Executive Officer following discussion with the Remuneration Committee.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions in 2009.
For further information about the Remuneration Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 61.
3 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
The Nomination Committee also ensures adequate succession planning for the Board.
The Nomination Committee met five times in 2009.
The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search consultants to assist it in the discharge of its responsibilities, as it considers necessary.
For further information about the Nomination Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 please refer to the Nomination Committee report on page 45.
4 Science & Technology Committee The Science & Technology Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing and advising the Board on Shires strategic direction and investment in research, development and technology.
The Science & Technology Committee met five times in 2009.
5 Investment Committee The Investment Committee is responsible for managing the Groups equity investments.
The Investment Committee was established in the latter part of 2009 and met once in 2009.
Leadership Team The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of Shire to the Leadership Team, which operates within clear and formal parameters.
The Leadership Team reports to and seeks guidance from the Board on a regular basis and normally meets once a month to deliberate on major business issues.
It also considers those matters that are of a size and significance as to require referral to the Board before such matters are referred to the Board for final consideration and decision.
During 2009 the Leadership Team met eleven times.
At December 31, 2009 the Leadership Team comprised Mr Angus Russell Chief Executive Officer who chaired the Leadership Team, Mr Graham Hetherington Chief Financial Officer, Mr Mike Cola President of Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Ms Sylvie Grgoire President of Human Genetic Therapies, Ms Barbara Deptula Chief Corporate Development Officer, Mrs Anita Graham Chief Administrative Officer and Ms Tatjana May General Counsel.
Directors remuneration The Groups remuneration policy is described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 61.
The report details the level of remuneration for Directors and the basis upon which executive remuneration is determined.
Relations with shareholders The Group is committed to maintaining constructive relationships with shareholders.
The Group announces its financial results quarterly.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give presentations on the results each quarter by teleconference for institutional investors, analysts and the media.
As the Company has securities listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market in the US, Shire also files quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and an Annual Report on Form 10-K with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
42 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, supported by other senior executives, also arrange individual and group meetings with major shareholders throughout the year to discuss the Groups strategy and performance and to understand the views of major shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available also to meet with major shareholders.
com provides information about the Group and its business and is regularly updated.
The Groups Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
At the Companys AGM shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Directors.
The Directors also make themselves available informally after the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Corporate Responsibility Shire recognizes the impact that its business may have on patients, employees, the community in which it operates and the environment.
Shire therefore attaches great importance to social and environmental issues and to ethical business practices.
Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is taken at the highest levels.
The Board reviews Shires general approach to Corporate Responsibility.
The Board also reviews the specific business risks related to Corporate Responsibility matters, as part of the overall risk management review process.
During 2009, Shire reviewed its approach to Corporate Responsibility and developed a strategy designed to ensure that Corporate Responsibility is embedded within Shire and that the core responsibility focus areas support Group in delivering its business mission.
The newly named Responsibility Co-ordination Team, is chaired by the General Counsel, and comprises key senior representatives with line management accountability for key issues such as health and safety, R&D, marketing, environment, community and drug safety.
The Team meets at least three times a year and is responsible for working with the business to ensure that goals are established in the business to promote the business mission in the most responsible manner.
Corporate Responsibility risks are managed within the overall framework of risk management, explained below under the heading internal control.
Further information, including 2009 highlights, can be obtained from the area dedicated to Corporate Responsibility on Shires website at www.
Code of Ethics The Group is committed to the maintenance of high ethical standards in its dealings with all persons with whom it is involved.
The Groups Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and employees and is available for review on Shires website.
Financial reporting and disclosure, internal control and the role of the auditors The Board has, through the ACR Committee, established formal and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, external auditing and the review of the internal control environment including compliance issues.
The ACR Committees terms of reference extend to the Groups compliance and risk management activities as a whole and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
The ACR Committee has access, as it may require, to the Groups internal and external auditors throughout the year in addition to presentations from both on a quarterly basis.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined and are reported by the ACR Committee Chairman to the Board with recommendations for action.
All employees can, via an independently managed Global Compliance Helpline, raise any concerns in any of these areas and any other area, anonymously if they wish, to the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer in the strictest confidence without fear of discrimination or reprisal.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer reports regularly to the ACR Committee on any significant issues that may arise through the helpline and other sources.
1 Financial reporting and disclosure The Board, with the assistance of the ACR Committee, has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of accounts and for the monitoring of systems of internal control.
The Board strives to present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects and it endeavours to present all financial, scientific and other information so as to be comprehensible to investors.
The Group publishes quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders can monitor the Groups financial position regularly.
In addition the Group has established a Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its membership includes executives and senior managers from the Specialty Pharmaceuticals and HGT businesses and from the legal, finance, compliance and risk functions.
Its responsibilities include ensuring that all material information is disclosed to investors in the Groups periodic financial reports and that such information is recorded, summarized and reported accurately.
Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the United States, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are required to complete formal certifications, which confirm, inter alia, that: the Annual Report on Form 10-K the Form 10-K in the United States does not contain any material misstatements or omissions: financial information reported in the Form 10-K fairly presents the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Group: the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the United States: the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and procedures: the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have indicated in the Form 10-K whether there were any significant changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting: and based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the Groups ability to record, process and report financial information included in the Form 10-K have been disclosed to the Groups auditors.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have completed these certifications and they have been filed with the SEC in the United States as part of the Groups Annual Report as at December 31, 2009 on Form 10-K. Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 2 Risk management, compliance and internal control The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, recognizes its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets and to regularly review its effectiveness.
Whilst the Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate all risk.
Accordingly even the most effective system of internal control can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 2009, the Board reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Aside from these reviews, the Board delegates responsibility to the ACR Committee for more regular review of both key risks and internal controls and for monitoring the activities of the internal audit function.
The ACR Committee has kept these areas under regular review during 2009.
The Group has risk management, compliance and internal audit functions.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the Vice President of Internal Audit report to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, but each has direct and regular access to the Chairman of the Group, the Chairman of the ACR Committee and the other members of that Committee.
They also both attend and regularly present at ACR Committee meetings.
The Groups risk management, compliance and internal audit strategy is based on a risk and control framework containing the following key elements: an effective control environment: an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: effective internal control procedures: and effective internal audit.
Effective control environment The key elements of the Groups control environment are as follows: the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the internal control system and has delegated certain responsibilities to the Leadership Team and or the ACR Committee: a framework of Corporate Values and a Code of Ethics which sets appropriate standards of ethical behavior are operational throughout the Group: the internal structure of the organization is well documented with clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different matters: a range of corporate policies, procedures and training have been implemented: the internal audit department, overseen by the Vice President of Internal Audit, carries out regular reviews of internal controls and reports findings to management and the ACR Committee: and the ACR Committee considers the major findings of any internal investigations and managements response to them.
The ACR Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups control environment.
Effective identification, assessment and management of risks Management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the Group creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in operation throughout the period under review and up to the date of signing the accounts.
Material risks are recorded twice a year on a corporate risk schedule the Schedule which allocates specific mitigation or management responsibility to senior management.
During 2009 the Schedule was reviewed by the Leadership Team and the Risk Council, which comprised a cross functional group of senior executives chaired by the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer.
The higher risk items on the Schedule were also reviewed by the ACR Committee and the full Board.
Effective internal control procedures The Group has a system of internal control procedures.
Compliance with these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and regular reports prepared by Internal Audit and the Groups external auditors.
Any significant issues arising are reported to the ACR Committee.
Effective internal audit The internal review of the Groups control procedures and compliance thereof is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
The ACR Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit program, considers the findings of internal audit reviews and managements response to them, and ensures efficient co-ordination between the Groups internal and external auditors.
The Groups internal audit function, comprising a mixture of internal and outsourced resource, was operational throughout 2009.
The ACR Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the activity of the internal audit function, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function during 2009.
3 External auditing The ACR Committee has the primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors as well as for determining the remuneration of and overseeing the work of the external auditors.
The ACR Committee assesses at least annually the objectivity and independence of the external auditors taking into account relevant regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviews and approves the annual external audit plan each year and ensures it is consistent with the scope of the auditors engagement.
In order to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the external auditors are maintained, the Committee applies a formal policy for the provision of non-audit services.
Such services are categorized as follows: services for which the external auditors are explicitly excluded: services for which the external auditors can be engaged without prior referral to the ACR Committee: and services for which pre-approval of the ACR Committee is required.
The Committee also considers the fees paid to the external auditors and whether the fee levels for non-audit services, individually and in aggregate, relative to the audit fee are appropriate so as not to undermine their independence.
44 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The Groups management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13 a to 15 f or 15 d 15 f promulgated under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Because of inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, material misstatements due to error may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness for future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Groups management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting for the purposes of Shires Annual Report on Form 10-K as at December 31, 2009, which was filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2010.
In making this assessment, the Groups management used the criteria set forth in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations COSO of the Treadway Commission.
Based on its assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2009 the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditors, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the design and effectiveness of the Groups internal control over the Form 10-K.
The Auditors Report appears on page F-3 of the Groups Form 10-K. Changes in internal control over financial reporting During the year ended December 31, 2009 there were no changes in Shires internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Shires internal control over financial reporting.
