46 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee report The following Directors served as members of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee during the year: David Kappler Chairman Patrick Langlois Kate Nealon David Stout appointed on December 8, 2009 following which the first Committee meeting he was eligible to attend was held in February 2010 David Mott stepped down on October 30, 2009 Members of the ACR Committee are chosen from amongst the Non-Executive Directors of the Group and are selected on the basis of their knowledge and experience of financial matters, financial reporting, risk management and internal control.
Each of the members of the ACR Committee has been determined by the Board to be an Independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ rules regarding the independence of members of the ACR Committee.
ACR Committee members hold office for an initial period of two years, subject to continuing as a Director of the Company.
Thereafter they may hold office for such duration as determined by the Board.
Details of the fees paid to members of the ACR Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 61.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Kappler, in his capacity as Chairman of the ACR Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has determined that Mr Kappler is the ACR Committees financial expert for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Mr Kappler was Chief Financial Officer of the Cadbury Schweppes group from 1995 until his retirement in April 2004.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc and a Non-Executive Director of Intercontinental Hotels Group plc where he is also chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Role of the ACR Committee The ACR Committees Terms of Reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Combined Code.
The current Terms of Reference of the ACR Committee are available on Shires website.
The key functions of the ACR Committee under its Terms of Reference are to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other Shire announcement relating to the Groups financial performance: ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the presentation of a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position: have the primary responsibility for making a recommendation to be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditors and to assess, at least annually, the objectivity and independence of the external auditors: review and discuss issues and recommendations arising from the external audit and any matters the external auditors may wish to discuss: set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors with a view to preserving the external auditors independence and objectivity: review and assess the annual internal audit program, consider the findings of internal audit reviews and managements response to them: review at least annually the design and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: review the Groups strategy for the management of the key corporate and financial risks of the Group including treasury, taxation and insurance: review procedures for the receipt and treatment of complaints received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters: review with the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer arrangements for the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding matters which could have a material impact on the Group, and to ensure these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action: review the findings of major internal investigations and managements response to material inquiries received from regulators or governmental agencies: and review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and to review the investigation and remediation of any alleged or suspected fraud.
The Chairman of the ACR Committee briefs the Board at each of its meetings on the matters considered by the ACR Committee, including those items where it considers that action is required.
The Terms of Reference of the ACR Committee give it authority to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference and to be responsible for the resolution of disagreements between management and the external auditors regarding the Groups financial reporting.
The ACR Committee is also authorized to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform its duties and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the ACR Committee.
Approval of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditors The ACR Committee has adopted formal policies and procedures in relation to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external auditors.
The principal purpose of these policies and procedures is to ensure that the independence of the external auditors is not impaired.
The policies, which are in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, prohibit the provision of certain non-audit services to the Group by the external auditors, including: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Group: design and implementation of financial information systems: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution-in-kind reports: actuarial or internal audit out-sourcing services: legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: management functions or human resource services: and broker, dealer, investment advisor or investment banking services.
Other types of audit and non-audit services may be performed by the external auditors if the work is either specifically pre-approved by the ACR Committee or the work falls within a schedule of services pre-approved by the ACR Committee in accordance with the pre-approval policy.
The ACR Committees pre-approval policy covers four categories of workaudit services, audit-related services, tax services and other non audit related Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 services.
If the proposed services to be provided by the external auditors fall within a category of pre-approved services and additionally the fee for those services is below pre-approved annual and transactional limits, such services may be provided by the external auditors without specific, individual approval of these services by the ACR Committee, provided that management does not need to exercise any discretion in determining whether a proposed service falls within one of the pre-approved categories.
In all cases, the ACR Committee is notified of any pre-approved service that is provided by the external auditors.
Any non-prohibited service proposed to be provided by the external auditors which is either not a pre-approved service, or is a pre-approved service for which fees are above the annual or transactional limits, must be approved in advance by the ACR Chairman, who will consider whether the independence, skills and experience of the external auditors make it a suitable supplier of the proposed service.
ACR Committee activities The ACR Committee met on five occasions in 2009.
The members of the ACR Committee attended all meetings they were eligible to attend.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the ACR Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, the Vice President of Internal Audit, the Groups external auditors and the Chairman of the Board attended meetings.
The ACR Committee held a number of separate private meetings with each of the Groups external auditors, the Vice President of Internal Audit and the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer during the course of the year without any executive member of the Board or other member of management present.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate open discussions between the ACR Committee members and, separately, the Vice President of Internal Audit, the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the Groups external auditors.
During 2009, the business reviewed by the ACR Committee included the following: 1 Financial statements the financial disclosures contained in the Groups full year and quarterly results announcements: various accounting matters, including but not limited to: the application of the Groups critical accounting policies and accounting standards in the context of the financial statement disclosures: the accounting for sales rebates for ADDERALL XR following the launch of authorised generic versions: accounting for the amendment to the in-licensing agreement and launch sales of INTUNIV: accounting for the termination of the Womens Health contract with Duramed Pharmaceuticals Inc. : accounting for leases at the new Lexington campus: the accounting implications of the transition of manufacturing from Owings Mills: the accounting for various acquisitions, in-licences and disposals during the year: accounting for the co-promotion agreement with GSK: and the accounting for various tax matters including Massachusetts state tax law changes: review of questions raised by the SEC concerning Shires 2008 Form 10-K filing, and 2009 Form 10-Q filings and approval of Shires responses.
The SEC was satisfied with Shires responses: and quarterly reports from the external auditors were received by the ACR Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the following key areas: external auditors responsibility and independence: significant accounting estimates and judgements made by management: significant accounting policies and one-off transactions.
2 Internal financial control and risk management systems consideration of the key risks faced by the Group and review of the Groups plan to mitigate such risks: review of the Groups annual internal audit plan, compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls over financial reporting: review of the policy for treasury management and of any proposed changes to that policy which are being recommended to the Board: quarterly reports on treasury investments, foreign exchange hedging: annual review of the Groups tax strategy and assessment of fiscal risk: quarterly reports on the results of the Groups internal audit program: semi-annual review of the Groups corporate risk schedule: review of the insurance renewal program for 2009 10: and monitoring of the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
3 External auditors During 2009 the ACR Committee reviewed the performance of the external auditors following the completion of the 2008 audit process, which resulted in the ACR Committee resolving to recommend that the Group submit a resolution to the 2009 Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditors.
At its February 2010 meeting, the ACR Committee conducted a formal review of the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process in connection with the 2009 financial year audit.
Throughout the year, the ACR Committee has kept the objectivity and independence of the external auditors under review and has obtained reports from the Groups external auditors describing all relationships between the external auditors and the Group.
The ACR Committee has remained satisfied that neither the level of non-audit services nor the nature of the work performed by the external auditors has in any way impaired their objectivity and independence.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors are disclosed in Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the engagement every five years.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict Shires choice of external auditors.
David Kappler Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee
