Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 Nomination Committee report The following Directors served as members of the Nomination Committee the Committee during the year: David Kappler Chairman Matthew Emmens Dr Jeffrey Leiden Dr Barry Price stepped down on October 27, 2009 Dr Michael Rosenblatt appointed on October 27, 2009 and stepped down on December 23, 2009 when he left the Board A majority of the Committee has been determined by the Board to be Independent Non-Executive Directors for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Role of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee require it, before any appointment is made, to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, to identify the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee utilizes, as it considers necessary, the services of professional search agencies specializing in the recruitment of high caliber candidates.
The Committee is required to consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, on merit and against objective criteria.
It is also required to ensure that candidates have sufficient time to devote to the position.
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their term of office, having regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in light of the knowledge, skills and experience required.
The Committee is responsible for considering succession planning for the Board and for making recommendations to the Board in this regard.
Nomination Committee activities The Committee met five times during 2009.
The attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 39.
At the invitation of the Committee, Mr Angus Russell attended all meetings.
During 2009, the Committee reviewed its membership and made changes to the composition of the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the Boards membership and the balance of skills and experience on the Board.
The Committee engaged a search agency to help it identify potential Board candidates.
After interviewing suitable candidates, the Committee recommended to the Board that Mr David Stout be appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
New Non-Executive Directors receive a customized induction program taking account of their particular experience and backgrounds.
This program includes meetings with senior management.
David Kappler Chairman of the Nomination Committee
