Directors report Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Location of board meetings Board committees Board meetings occasionally take place at the offices of the groups businesses.
Membership of the three key committees was refreshed in April 2009.
This further enables non-executive directors to develop their knowledge of the Current membership of each committee is detailed below.
group and to consult with management and other employees.
Non-executive Nomination committee directors may also make additional visits to our overseas businesses through the year.
Current members: Tim Clarke, Javier Ferrn, Lord Jay, Charles Sinclair, Senior executives below board level are invited, when appropriate, to attend Peter Smith.
board meetings and to make presentations on the results and strategies of Chairman: Charles Sinclair.
Further details of the Nomination committee can be found on page 34.
Independent professional advice The board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in order to comply Audit committee with their duties and where they judge it necessary, take independent professional Current members: Tim Clarke, Lord Jay, Peter Smith.
advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
Company Secretary Further details of the Audit committee can be found on page 34.
Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Remuneration committee Current members: Tim Clarke, Javier Ferrn, Lord Jay, Charles Sinclair, Peter Smith.
Attendance at meetings Directors are generally provided with the papers for board and committee meetings Chairman: Charles Sinclair.
This enables any director who is unable to attend to provide Details of the Remuneration committee and its policies can be found on comments to the Chairman, the chairman of the relevant committee or the pages 42 to 47.
Company Secretary, who will then relay these comments to the relevant meeting.
The terms of reference of the Nomination committee, the Audit committee and The attendance by individual directors at board and committee meetings during the Remuneration committee are available on request and from www.
co. uk the year ended 12 September 2009 was as follows: Nomination Audit Remuneration Full board committee committee committee meeting DIRECTORS Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Martin Adamson 1 1 1 3 3 5 5 Charles Sinclair 2 1 1 1 1 6 6 9 9 George Weston 9 9 John Bason 9 9 Tim Clarke 1 1 3 2 6 5 9 8 Lord Jay 1 1 3 3 6 6 9 9 Javier Ferrn 1 1 6 6 9 9 Peter Smith 1 1 3 3 6 5 9 8 Galen Weston 9 3 1 Martin Adamson retired as a director and as Chairman on 21 April 2009.
2 Charles Sinclair was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 October 2008 and as Chairman on 21 April 2009.
32 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Accountability and audit Board evaluation The board is required by the Combined Code to present a balanced and During the year, the board commissioned Egon Zehnder to carry out an understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
independent evaluation of its performance.
The review was conducted by way In relation to this requirement, reference is made to the statement of directors of a detailed questionnaire completed by each of the directors and the Company Secretary, followed by one-to-one interviews between each individual and the responsibilities for preparing the financial statements set out on page 52 of this external consultant.
The independent auditors report on page 53 includes a statement by the The review produced areas for consideration, in particular how the board could auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board recognises that its improve its deliberations.
The issues identified have been discussed and changes responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to board practice implemented as appropriate.
Overall, the evaluation process to interim and other price-sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and in 2009 confirmed that the board and its principal committees had functioned information required to be presented by law.
efficiently during the year and that all the directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment to their roles, including of time.
Going concern The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Relations with shareholders development, performance and position are set out in the Business review on The Company is committed to increasing shareholder value and communicates pages 2 to 25.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position its achievements and prospects to its shareholders in an accurate and timely and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 24 and 25. manner.
Apart from the annual general meeting, the Company communicates In addition, the risk management review on pages 38 to 41 and note 25 on with its shareholders by way of the annual report and accounts and the interim pages 90 to 102 provide details of the groups policy on managing its financial report.
Significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business and commodity risks.
are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements and by press release and appear on the Companys website.
The Company The group has considerable financial resources, good access to debt markets, also holds meetings with its major institutional shareholders to discuss the a diverse range of businesses and a wide geographic spread.
It is therefore Companys operations.
well placed to manage business risks successfully despite the current economic uncertainty.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders in the event that communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the failed to resolve concerns or where such contact is inappropriate.
Company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the The annual general meeting takes place in London.
Formal notification is sent going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
to shareholders approximately one month in advance and in any event at least 21 days before the meeting.
Other general meetings may also be convened Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest from time to time on at least 21 days notice or where certain requirements The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation where are met including prior approval by shareholders by way of special resolution, a director has a conflict of interest.
As part of this process, the members on 14 days notice.
The annual general meeting gives shareholders an opportunity of the board endeavour to: to hear about the general development of the business and to ask questions consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: of the Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the key committees and other directors.
The practice has been for a short film to be shown at the meeting consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of his duties explaining a particular area of the groups business.
Details of the meeting and under the Companies Act 2006: the resolutions to be proposed together with explanatory notes are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders.
Any member attending the AGM keep records and board minutes as to authorisations granted by directors has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such and the scope of any approvals given: and question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, except in certain regularly review conflict authorisation.
circumstances including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting to do so or if to do so would involve the disclosure of The Company has complied with these procedures during the year.
Shareholders attending the meeting are advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
All resolutions are voted on by poll and the results announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on the Companys website.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Report of the Nomination committee The Nomination committee reviews the structure, size and composition including Composition of the Nomination committee the skills, knowledge and experience of the board and, if appropriate, makes The members of the Nomination committee who held office during the year recommendations for changes to the board.
In this respect, the committee and at the date of this report are: has regard to the results of the annual board evaluation.
The committee keeps under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and Martin Adamson Chairman until April 2009 non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation Charles Sinclair member from November 2008 and Chairman from April 2009 to compete efficiently in the marketplace.
The committee makes recommendations Tim Clarke regarding the membership of the Audit committee in consultation with the Javier Ferrn Audit committee chairman.
Lord Jay Peter Smith Activities The Nomination committee makes recommendations to the board on succession Executive directors may be invited to attend as appropriate.
for executive directors, the reappointment of any non-executive directors at the conclusion of their specified term of office, any matter relating to the continuation The Nomination committee leads the process for board appointments by making in office of any director at any time and the appointment of any director to recommendations to the board.
The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
In these circumstances the committee is chaired Corporate website by a non-executive director elected by the remaining members.
The committee The terms of reference of the Nomination committee, which set out its role met once during the year.
and the authority delegated to it by the board, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and can be viewed on the Companys website.
Duties The Nomination committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, The formal letters of appointment of relevant non-executive directors are also for the approval of the board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Before an appointment is made, the committee evaluates the Report of the Audit committee balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board and, in the light of Summary of the role of the Audit committee this evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for The Audit committee is responsible for maintaining an appropriate relationship a particular appointment.
with the groups external auditors and for reviewing the Companys internal audit resources, internal financial controls and the audit process.
It aids the board Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The Nomination in seeking to ensure that the financial and non-financial information supplied committee normally uses external advisors to facilitate searches for potential to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the Companys position.
The time required from a non-executive director is reviewed annually.
The annual The Audit committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the external board evaluation is used to assess whether the non-executive director is spending auditors and also considers the scope of their work and fees paid for audit and sufficient time to fulfil his duties.
The Nomination committee gives full consideration to succession planning in The Audit committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing information, as well as to employees of the Company and the external auditors.
the Company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the board and Members of the committee may, in pursuit of their duties, take independent from senior management in the future.
professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the board.
Composition of the Audit committee The members of the Audit committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report are: Peter Smith chairman Tim Clarke Lord Jay Charles Sinclair from November 2008 until April 2009 34 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Membership of the Audit committee is determined by the board, on the During the year, the Audit committee formally reviewed draft interim and recommendation of the Nomination committee and in consultation with the annual reports and associated announcements.
These reviews considered: committee chairman, from amongst the independent, non-executive directors the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the groups of the Company.
Its terms of reference are set by the board and are modelled financial statements and proposed changes to them: closely on the provisions of the Combined Code.
the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of important Appointments are for a period of three years after which they are subject to annual accounting issues, areas of complexity and significant financial reporting review, extendable by additional three year periods so long as members continue judgements: to be independent.
The Audit committee is comprised of a minimum of three independent non-executive directors at any time.
Two members constitute litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the group: and a quorum.
potential tax contingencies and the groups compliance with statutory The Audit committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially qualified tax obligations.
member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its responsibilities Currently the committee chairman fulfils this requirement.
All committee members relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment, controls are expected to be financially literate.
over financial reporting and the groups compliance with the Combined Code.
The board expects Audit committee members to have an understanding To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: of the following areas: the external auditors management letters and audit highlights memoranda: the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting including the internal audit reports on key audit areas and significant deficiencies in the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice: financial control environment: key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate policies and the reports on the systems of internal financial controls and risk management: and groups internal control environment: reports on frauds perpetrated against the group.
matters which may influence the presentation of accounts and key figures: The Audit committee is responsible for the development, implementation and the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific laws and monitoring of policies and procedures on the use of the auditor for non-audit other relevant corporate legislation: services, in accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
These the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: and policies are kept under review to meet the objective of ensuring that the group benefits in a cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge and experience the regulatory framework for the groups businesses.
of its auditor whilst also ensuring that the auditor maintains the necessary Meetings degree of independence and objectivity.
Consequently, any non-audit work to The Audit committee meets at least three times each year and has an agenda be undertaken by the auditor in excess of 300,000 is required to be authorised linked to events in the groups financial calendar.
The committee invites the by the chairman of the Audit committee and the Group Finance Director prior to Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Director of Financial Control its commencement.
Individual assignments less than 300,000 are approved by and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings the Group Finance Director.
in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The Audit committee has formally reviewed the independence of its auditors.
Other senior managers are invited to present such reports as are required for the KPMG Audit Plc have provided a letter confirming that they believe they remain committee to discharge its duties.
independent within the meaning of the regulations on this matter and their Overview of the actions taken by the Audit committee to discharge professional standards.
its duties In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit committee receives and reviews presentations and reports from the groups senior management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, Internal audit function the Audit committee reviewed: The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of internal audit.
To fulfil changes in external audit executives in the audit plan for the current year: these duties, the committee reviewed: a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to identify, internal audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the committee report and manage any conflicts of interest: and and all members of the board: the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee reviewed: the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations of managements response and the timeliness of resolution: from it: and statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience and timeliness of reporting: reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the course of the audit.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the Audit the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit: and committee reviewed: changes since the last annual assessment in the nature and extent of significant the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the audit as financial risks and the groups ability to respond to changes in its business and set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: the external environment.
The groups whistle-blowing policy contains arrangements for the Company the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal the external auditors fee proposal: controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit committee as appropriate.
the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: The groups anti-fraud policy has been communicated to all employees key accounting and audit judgements: and states that all employees have a responsibility for fraud prevention and the levels of errors identified during the audit: and detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should be reported immediately and will be investigated vigorously.
recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
The Audit committee holds private meetings with the external auditors after each committee meeting to review key issues within their sphere of interest Having satisfied itself that the external auditors remain independent, and responsibility.
the Audit committee has recommended to the board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed.
The chairman of the Audit committee will be present at the annual general meeting to answer questions on this report, matters within the scope of the committees responsibilities and any significant matters brought to the committees attention by the external auditors.
The full terms of reference of the Audit committee are available on the Companys website: www.
co. uk 36 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Internal control Internal audit The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups system of internal The groups businesses employ internal auditors both employees and resources control to facilitate the identification, assessment and management of risk, provided by Ernst & Young where appropriate with skills and experience relevant the protection of shareholders investments and the groups assets.
The directors to the operation of each business.
All of the internal audit activities are co-ordinated recognise that they are responsible for providing a return to shareholders, centrally by the groups Director of Financial Control, who is accountable to the which is consistent with the responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
Effective controls ensure that the group is not exposed to avoidable risk, that proper All group businesses are required to comply with the groups financial control accounting records have been maintained, that the financial information used framework that sets out minimum control standards.
A key function of the within the business is reliable and that the consolidated accounts preparation groups internal audit resources is to undertake audits to ensure compliance and financial reporting processes comply with all relevant regulatory reporting with the financial control framework and make recommendations for improvement requirements.
The dynamics of the group and the environment within which it in controls where appropriate.
Internal audit also conducts regular reviews to operates are continually evolving together with its exposure to risk.
The system ensure that risk management procedures and controls are observed.
The Audit is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of assets being unprotected committee receives regular reports on the results of internal audits work and and to guard against their unauthorised use and the failure to achieve business monitors the status of recommendations arising.
The committee reviews annually objectives.
Internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute the adequacy, qualifications and experience of the groups internal audit resources assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and the nature and scope of internal audit activity in the overall context of the groups risk management system set out below.
The Director of Financial Control The directors confirm that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating meets with the chairman of the committee as appropriate but at least annually, and managing the risks faced by the group and the operational effectiveness of without the presence of executive management, and has direct access to the the related controls, which has been in place for the year under review and up to Chairman of the board.
the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
They also confirm that they have regularly reviewed the system of internal controls utilising the review Financial reporting process set out below.
Detailed management accounts are prepared every four weeks, consolidated in a single system and reviewed by senior management and the board.
They include Standards a comprehensive set of financial reports and key performance indicators covering There are guidelines on the minimum group-wide requirements for health and commercial, operational, environmental and people issues.
Performance against safety and environmental standards.
There are also guidelines on the minimum budgets and forecasts is discussed regularly at board meetings and at meetings level of internal control that each of the divisions should exercise over specified between operational and group management.
The adequacy and suitability of processes.
Each business has developed and documented policies and procedures key performance indicators is reviewed regularly.
All chief executives and finance to comply with the minimum control standards established, including procedures directors of the groups operations are asked to sign an annual confirmation that for monitoring compliance and taking corrective action.
The board of each their business has complied with the Group Accounting Manual and specifically business is required to confirm bi-annually that it has complied with these to confirm the adequacy and accuracy of accounting provisions.
High-level controls All operations prepare annual operating plans and budgets which are updated regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored at operational level and centrally, with variances being reported promptly.
The cash position at group and operational level is monitored constantly and variances from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital expenditure and investment decisions.
These include the preparation of budgets, appraisal and review procedures and delegated authority levels.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Principal risks and uncertainties We have a significant number of global brands and any adverse event affecting The groups risk management process seeks to enable the early identification, consumer confidence or continuity of supply of such a brand could have an adverse evaluation and effective management of the key risks facing the businesses impact in many of our markets, or in some cases affect intangible asset values.
at an operational level and to operate internal controls to mitigate these risks.
The We support our brands and their growth through competitive levels of investment key risks and internal control procedures are reviewed by group personnel together in advertising and promotions.
The breadth of the business portfolio and our with internal audit activities.
Each business is responsible for regularly assessing its geographic reach also help to mitigate general economic risks.
We aim to protect risk management activities to ensure good practice in all areas.
Compliance with the value of our brands through research and development, product quality and group requirements is monitored six monthly, and these assessments are formally by operating in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.
reviewed by group personnel at least annually.
The board reviews annually the risk These measures are aimed at extending our consumer offerings, reducing the management process and its implementation in each of the businesses.
A review impact of falling consumer demand or of consumers switching to alternative of the main risks facing the group is embedded within every board agenda and products, thus allowing us to compete effectively in our key categories summarised on an annual basis.
The Audit committee receives reports on internal and countries.
financial control issues both from management and the external auditors and regularly reports to the board for the purposes of the boards annual review.
Input costs, supplier and supply chain reliance Primarks ethical trade programme has been strengthened considerably over the The principal corporate risks as identified by each business and reviewed by the past year.
In March, Primark appointed its first Ethical Trade Director and in the board are currently: last 12 months it has doubled the size of its in-house ethical trade team around Food safety the world.
Primark is visiting and working with more suppliers than ever before.
Our businesses have a positive role to play in contributing to the quality of peoples It will audit more than 1,000 factories in 2009, up from 533 last year.
An important lives by providing wholesome and nutritious foods, food ingredients and animal and growing area of team activity is training, both internally and externally.
Sugar, tea, flour, bread, cereals and meat products are part of peoples first half of 2009 Primarks buyers and key personnel received over 1,500 hours of daily lives all over the world and every effort is made to ensure these are produced ethical trade training, as part of a continuous programme to help them understand efficiently and to a high quality.
the impact of their actions further down the supply chain and improve their purchasing practices.
Primark is concentrating on developing the support it gives To manage food safety risks, manufacturing sites operate food safety systems to suppliers to meet its code of conduct and held supplier training sessions in India which are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain effective, including compliance and the UK.
Plans are under way for others in China, Bangladesh and Turkey to be with all regulatory requirements for hygiene and food safety.
Food products are held by the end of 2009.
In addition to a new supplier management system which made to high standards regardless of where they are manufactured and food will help with monitoring and remediation, a suppliers extranet, including many safety is put before economic considerations.
practical tools to improve compliance, is due to be launched by the end of 2009.
Global economic slowdown and changing consumer demand Primark is engaging with local experts, including unions and Non-Government The economic slowdown and turmoil in the global economy has adversely Organisations NGOs, in many of the regions from which it sources.
It has built impacted consumer markets, including those in which we operate.
Our businesses solid partnerships with a number of NGOs, such as a grassroots project with are dependent on continued consumer demand for their products, and reduced SAVE in India, to understand and address the challenges faced by workers in consumer wealth may result in consumers becoming unwilling or unable to the communities where its products are made, and in Bangladesh a project with purchase our products, with clear implications for turnover and profitability.
Nari Uddug Kendra, particularly focusing on training workers on their entitlements, Our strategy is aimed at delivering value to consumers, through strong brands, including wages and associated rights.
Two projects on living wages, one in supported by differentiated innovation and continued product improvement.
Bangladesh and one in China, are under way with the aim of creating long-term We seek to build mutually rewarding relationships with customers in order to improvements in labour standards.
Primark is an active member of the Ethical make our products available across all relevant channels.
Trading Initiative and participates in a number of working groups including the General Merchandisers, Homeworking, Purchasing Practices, Reporting and China Forum.
Primark launched a dedicated ethical trade section on its website in May which provides information and updates on its programme.
38 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Profitable manufacturing is dependent on obtaining adequate supplies of products are transported efficiently to minimise fuel usage, consistent with production materials in a timely and cost-effective manner.
Prices are significantly customers demands, production arrangements and vehicle fleet operations: influenced by global economic conditions and can fluctuate, which may have an accidents are prevented so far as is reasonably practical: and impact on margins and cash flows.
effective emergency response procedures are in place to minimise the impact We are also dependent on suppliers and global supply chains as a means of of foreseeable incidents.
producing and supplying our products.
As a result we are exposed to business interruption from natural disasters or catastrophes and through additional risks of Particular attention is paid to recently acquired businesses to ensure they operate changes in local legal and regulatory schemes, labour shortages and disruptions in accordance with the standards we expect of the groups businesses.
from environmental and industrial incidents.
The principal environmental risk is the use of energy and the resultant emissions In the current climate we also face a risk that our suppliers may fail to meet their of carbon dioxide, a gas involved in climate change.
The efficient use of energy contractual obligations.
Active monitoring of suppliers and the supply chain is is a major element of our environmental policy.
Indeed, all sites which are subject in place, and regular supplier counterparty risk analysis is undertaken to mitigate to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Control regime are also under a statutory this risk.
requirement to minimise energy consumption by use of best available techniques.
We actively monitor our external environment, review and revisit our business Our manufacturing operations in the UK participate in the UK Governments continuity and disaster recovery plans, and continue to adapt our internal cost Climate Change Agreement Scheme in which energy-intensive businesses structures to deliver products at competitive prices.
receive an 80% discount from the Climate Change Levy in return for meeting energy-efficiency or carbon-saving targets.
The sugar sites in the UK and Poland Competition rules participate in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
These schemes encourage the sites The penalties for failing to comply with the 1998 Competition Act, the 2003 to reduce energy consumption and therefore reduce emissions of carbon dioxide Enterprise Act, relevant EU law and all relevant competition legislation are cost-effectively.
recognised as risks to be managed within the group.
Clear policy direction, which includes compulsory awareness training and close support from the in-house legal In addition to the consumption of energy we generate surplus electricity from department, has reduced the likelihood of the group breaching these regulations.
highly efficient Combined Heat and Power CHP plants and sell this electricity to other companies.
All UK CHP plants participate in the UK Governments Environment CHP quality assurance scheme and qualify for a full exemption from the UKs We recognise the impact that our businesses have on the environment.
as a minimum, we comply with current applicable legislation of the countries in which we operate and our operations are conducted with a view to ensuring that: Carbon dioxide is emitted directly from the combustion of fossil fuels to create steam, heat and electricity at our factories, and indirectly by the power stations emissions to air, releases to water and landfilling of solid wastes do not cause from which we buy our electricity.
The use of bagasse sugar cane fibre, which unacceptable environmental impacts and do not offend the community: is a renewable resource and hence carbon neutral as a fuel in the cane factories significant plant and process changes are assessed and positively authorised eliminates the need to use coal and other fossil fuels to provide energy to in advance to prevent adverse environmental impacts: our boilers.
energy is used efficiently and consumption is monitored: Other significant environmental risks include the handling and disposal of waste and the treatment of waste water.
The principal legal risk is regulatory natural resources are used efficiently: action for non-compliance with licence conditions and statutory requirements.
raw material waste is minimised: All of our businesses have named senior executives and responsible managers accountable for waste, and the management of the physical and legal risks, solid waste is reduced, reused or recycled where practicable: for which they employ specialists, is included in their annual objectives.
the amount of packaging used for our products is minimised, consistent with requirements for food safety and product protection: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance continued We use Environmental Resources Management Ltd ERM to continue our rolling People programme of audits of the management of environmental risks at a representative The groups performance targets require us to have the right calibre of people sample of our businesses.
The sites audited are selected on the basis of materiality at all levels.
We must compete to obtain capable recruits for the businesses, and with regard to the range of issues as well as their contribution to the health, safety then train them in the skills and competencies that are needed to deliver profitable and environmental performance of the group as a whole.
ERM also carry out a growth.
At a time of substantial change in the businesses, there is a particular focus sample data verification process on the groups data to check for completeness on creating alignment and energetic leadership.
Each year the board reviews the verified results and provides strategic Financial and commodity risks direction.
Businesses are required to develop action plans as appropriate and Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies progress is monitored by the group health and safety manager.
and guidelines to manage the groups financial and commodity risks.
Financial risks Details of our environmental performance are published in a separate report on essentially arise through exposure to foreign currencies, interest rates, counterparty our website: www.
co. uk credit and borrowings.
Commodity risks arise from the procurement of raw materials and the exposure to changes in market prices.
Liquidity risk arises Health and safety from the availability of internal and external funding to enable the group to We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace in line with meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.
local regulations to protect all employees, visitors and the public insofar as they come into contact with foreseeable work hazards.
We consider health and safety Sufficient funding is maintained by way of external loans and committed bank to be no less important than any other function.
We require our businesses facilities to meet our expected needs.
An extended period of constraint in the to build a culture of sustained improvement.
capital markets, where availability of funds from the bank loan and public debt markets was limited at a time when cash flow was under pressure, might Peoples health and safety at work is a prime responsibility for all those who compromise our ability to implement current long-term strategies.
All employees and those working on behalf of the Company have a responsibility for the health and safety of themselves and Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual financial others who may be affected by their actions.
We ensure that they are well obligations resulting in a loss to the group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances, informed, appropriately trained and are consulted on matters affecting their credit exposures to customers including outstanding receivables, derivative financial health and safety.
Credit risk is managed at both a group and business level according to internal guidelines, with businesses responsible The principal health and safety risks relate to the potential for serious injuries, fatal for their exposure to customer credit risk.
Financial transactions are dealt through accidents and regulatory action for non-compliance with statutory requirements.
financial institutions with a credit rating of A or better.
As with environmental risks, all the groups businesses have named accountable Details of the groups accounting and risk management policies with respect to senior executives who employ specialists to manage these risks, which form part financial instruments and the associated quantitative and qualitative disclosures of their annual objectives.
are set out in note 25 on pages 90 to 102.
We use ERM to audit a representative sample of our operations to understand how the businesses manage their risks and to verify the data.
Businesses are required to develop action plans as appropriate and progress is monitored by the group health and safety manager.
Details of our safety performance are published in a separate report on our website: www.
co. uk 40 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Taxation risks Management succession Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the position taken is The devolved nature of the group requires us to pay particular attention to the sustainable.
Management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether strength of the various management teams around the world, with specific focus a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis on succession planning.
The status of each divisions succession plan is reviewed of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and with group management twice a year, and with the board annually.
Development penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
of our senior managers is co-ordinated by the Group HR Director and Head of Executive Development.
In addition, a small number of executive search companies The group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different have been briefed to introduce us to talented executives from other companies jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the group is routinely subject to tax audit and local who could add value to the group.
enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period to conclude.
Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of Regulatory and political environment country-specific tax law and the likely outcome.
Our businesses are subject to a wide variety of regulations in the different countries in which they operate because of their diverse nature.
They may also be affected Loss of a major site and business continuity by political developments in the countries in which they operate.
These uncertainties The group operates from many key sites the loss of which, for example as a in the external environment are considered when developing strategy and result of fire, would present significant operational difficulties.
Our operations reviewing performance and we remain vigilant to future changes.
We engage with have business continuity plans in place to manage the impact of such an event governments and NGOs to ensure the views of our stakeholders are represented and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
and we try to anticipate, and contribute to, important changes in public policy wherever we operate.
Major projects The group undertakes a number of major capital investment projects, each of which carries the risk of overspending initial cost estimates, overrunning construction timelines and failing to meet design specifications.
All major projects are managed by dedicated teams who work in close liaison with business management.
Initial project plans are reviewed by group management and, for the larger projects, by the board.
Updates on progress are provided throughout the project.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 Directors report Governance Remuneration report Remuneration report 1.
Directors remuneration policy This report sets out the policy and disclosures on directors remuneration as The remuneration policy of the Company aims to: required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts provide alignment between remuneration and the Companys business and Reports Regulations 2008 issued under the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
objectives: In accordance with the Act, a resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company.
The vote will have align executive rewards with shareholder value: advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration attract and retain high-calibre executive directors: packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
KPMG Audit Plc has audited the report to the extent required by the Act, being the sections entitled motivate executive directors to achieve challenging performance levels Directors remuneration, Long-term incentives, Directors pensions and and reward them for so doing: Directors share options.
recognise both individual and corporate achievement: and 2.
The Remuneration committee reflect the diversity of the groups interests.
The Remuneration committee is responsible to the board for determining the remuneration policy for executive directors, together with the specific terms and The total remuneration of executive directors comprises base salary, annual and conditions of employment of each individual director, and for reviewing the overall long-term incentives, pension provisions and other benefits.
During 2009, the Remuneration committee reviewed the incentive arrangements Committee composition for executive directors and other senior executives and concluded that the current The Remuneration committee currently consists of five non-executive directors.
The only change has been a minor The members of the committee during the year have been: alteration to the financial measures in the annual bonus, such that working capital targets will be more stretching in the future.
Martin Adamson Chairman until 21 April 2009 Charles Sinclair Chairman from 21 April 2009 The Remuneration committee continues to believe that a substantial element of Tim Clarke compensation should be at risk in order to reward and drive performance and Lord Jay to align better the interests of executives with those of shareholders.
The current Javier Ferrn proportion of variable pay in the form of annual performance bonus and long-term Peter Smith incentives compared to base salary for executive directors is around 1.3 to 1 for on target performance.
Consultants The committee has retained Towers Perrin to provide independent market Other executives are eligible to participate in incentive arrangements similar to information and remuneration advice.
Towers Perrin does not provide any those of the executive directors, and based on the same principles, but with lower other consulting services to the Company.
The current proportion of variable pay to base salary for first line executives is around 0.8 to 1 for on target performance.
In addition to Towers Perrin, the following people provided material advice or services to the committee during the year: Base salary Base salaries are paid to individuals for delivering a fully competent level of George Weston, Chief Executive performance, and are reviewed in relation to median market data for comparable Des Pullen, Group Human Resources Director companies in terms of size, market sector and complexity.
Other considerations George Weston did not advise in respect of his own remuneration.
are individual experience, performance and scope of responsibility.
Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change The HR Director and Towers Perrin provided support and liaison throughout the year.
The committee also takes into account pay and employment conditions of employees in the Company and of other undertakings in the same group as the Company when determining directors remuneration.
42 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Remuneration report Annual performance bonus The first allocation under the new arrangements was made in November 2006, Executive directors and other senior executives are eligible to participate in an the second allocation in November 2007 and the third in November 2008. annual cash-based bonus scheme with payments based on the achievement of All these allocations were to a maximum face value of 125% of base salary, stretching financial targets and personal performance assessed against individual and related to three-year performance periods September 2006 to short and medium-term objectives.
Financial targets for all ABF executives are set September 2009, September 2007 to September 2010, and September 2008 on a business-by-business basis and reflect what can be directly influenced and the to September 2011 respectively.
area of work for which each executive is accountable.
Adjusted operating profit and Performance under the long-term share plan for all three allocations has been working capital were chosen as the prime financial measures as they are common and will be measured against an absolute range of 5% to 11% compound annual metrics which are used on a day-to-day basis to drive and monitor performance growth in adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted earnings per share was chosen as within the group.
the measure for long-term incentives because: At the start of the financial year, budgeted operating profit is set as the on target it is a measure which is well understood both by participants and shareholders: performance level, and the Remuneration committee determines the range of operating profit at which the minimum and maximum incentive payouts will be it is a published figure with limited adjustments: and made.
Similarly the target and range for working capital as a percentage of sales it encompasses the diverse nature of the group.
is determined, and this acts as a multiplier to the bonus achieved for adjusted operating profit, whereby that bonus can be enhanced or reduced by up to 20%.
It was also agreed to use an absolute rather than a relative measure, as ABF is a global business for which UK inflation factors are largely irrelevant.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for executive directors is 150% of base salary.
Up to 20% may be paid for achievement of specific personal objectives Other measures have been considered, but found to be unhelpful or inappropriate.
and up to 130% may be paid for achievement of financial results as outlined Measures which require testing against a group of companies, for example, above.
On target performance yields around 78% of base salary.
relative TSR, are difficult to use given the problem of finding realistic comparators.
Measures of cash flow or returns are already encompassed within the adjusted Long-term incentives earnings per share measure.
Long-term incentives are paid in shares to reward long-term business growth and to promote executive retention.
The Associated British Foods Executive Share Incentive The three-year vesting period for the first share allocation ends on 21 November 2009.
Plan 2003 the Share Incentive Plan was established following shareholder As 21 November is a non-trading day, shares are due for release on 23 November.
approval at the 2003 annual general meeting.
Under this scheme, long-term awards The ABF group performance conditions for the financial years September 2006 are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares which are released if, and to September 2009 have not been met and there will be no release of shares to to the extent that, performance targets are satisfied over a specified three-year period.
executive directors for the 2006 9 Scheme.
However as all financial targets are set by reference to the business for which each executive is directly responsible, As a result of the review of total remuneration undertaken in 2006, revised and a number of businesses have met their targets, 52 divisional executives, incentive plan arrangements were introduced in September 2006, and for the representing around 73% of eligible participants, will receive a release first time it was agreed that executive directors should be granted an annual of shares in November.
allocation of conditional shares thus creating a series of overlapping three-year performance periods.
