ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDITAND INTERNALCONTROL FRAMEWORK Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Internal Audit function and the Group Risk Committee consider and test effectiveness and report to the Audit Committee and to the Board respectively on their findings.
The Board hasreviewedthesystem ofinternalcontrol,  yearended 31 December 2009 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and  andnotabsolute assuranceagainst materialmisstatement orloss.
Risk Committee The members of the Risk Committee are the executive directors, the executive officers and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, the management of each of the Global Business Units identifies the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occurand the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Risk Committee meets twice a year to review the major risks identified by the Global Business Units and any mitigating actions being taken.
As appropriate, the Risk Committee may re-categorise risks or require further information or mitigating action to be undertaken.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board on an annual basis detailing all principalrisks categorised by potential financialimpact onprofit and share price.
In addition, the most significant Group risks are reported to the Board regularly.
These reports include details of new, key or significantly increased risks along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks.
The principal risks identified  inRiskFactorstobe foundonpages 20to24.
Audit Committee Theactivities  ingreater detail inpages 52to53.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups approach to internal financial control and the operation of the risk management process.
During 2009, the effectiveness of the Global Business Units systems to identify and manage material risks was evaluated and the findings were reported to the Audit Committee.
Auditor Independence Policy The Audit Committee has adopted an Auditor Independence Policy which forms part of the Committees Terms of Reference.
This policy governs the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors.
This prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
Each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required, together with a notification to the Audit Committee of the service and the fees involved.
All services provided by the independent auditors during the year were pre-approved bytheAuditCommittee.
The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding the audit partner rotation in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
During 2009, the Companys lead audit partner rotated and was replaced by a new lead audit partner whohad not been previously involved in the Companys audit.
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years have expired .
Managements Report on Internal Control overFinancial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined inRule13a-15 f and15d-15 f  of1934.
In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or .
57 Corporate Governance Statement In accordance with the requirement in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2009.
In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded and hereby reports that, as at 31 December 2009, the Groups internal control over financial reporting iseffective based onthosecriteria.
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the Groups  of31December2009.
There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal .
DisclosuresCommittee and Evaluation of  Procedures The Disclosures Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Chief Financial Officer and various additional senior executives.
The secretary is the Company Secretary or her designate.
The Committee meets as required and approves the release of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority andthe .
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2009.
Based upon, and as at the date of that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures wereeffective.
Code of Conduct The revised Code of Conduct approved by the Ethics and Compliance Committee was issued to all employees during 2009.
The Code of Conduct sets out the basic legal and ethical principles for carrying out business and applies both to employees and those who act on the Groups behalf.
It sets out in detail how persons covered by the Code of Conduct are expected to interact ethically with healthcare professionals and government officials.
It also covers the broader issues of ethics and compliance throughout the business and includes a code of business principles.
The Code of Conduct includes a whistle blowing policy which enables persons in most jurisdictions where the Group operates to contact the Group anonymously through an independent provider.
All calls and contacts are investigated and the appropriate action taken, including reports to senior management or the Board where warranted.
Code of Ethics for SeniorFinancial Officers The Board of directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, which is available on the Groups website www.
com and on request from the Company Secretary.
It applies to the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisionsnorany amendments made to the Code during2009 or up until 17March 2010.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services Fees for professional services provided by Ernst & Young LLP, the Groups independent auditors in each of the last twofiscal years, : 2009 2008 $ million $ million Audit 35 Audit related fees Tax 23 Other 1 59 58 Audit fees include fees associated with the annual audit and local statutory audits required internationally.
In 2008, other fees related to aborted acquisition costs.
A more detailed breakdown of audit fees may be found in Note37ofthe .
Disclosureof Information to the Auditors In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and the directors also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit informationand, accordingly, to establish that the auditors are aware ofsuchinformation.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM as approved bytheAuditCommittee.
