GOVERNANCE AND POLICY Introduction The Board continues to be committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and this report together with the Directors Remuneration Report explains how the provisions principles of the FSA Listing Rules, Disclosure & Transparency Rules and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code have been applied throughouttheyear.
The Board considers that it has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year, except that no member of the Audit Committee had a qualification from one of the professional accountancy bodies as recommended by the Smith Guidance.
However, the Board considers that all members had relevant financial experience as senior executives of large corporations and therefore had sufficient competence in accounting or auditing in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.1.
The Board further considers that the members of the Audit Committee have the skills and experience of corporate financial matters to discharge the Committees responsibilities properly.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent, as defined by the NYSE, and meet the definition of financial expert in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the US.
Ian Barlow was appointed a member of the Audit Committee on 5 March 2010.
He has recent and relevant financial .
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the NYSE and the Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as the US securities laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board believes that it has complied throughout the year with both SEC and NYSE requirements related to corporate governance except that, in accordance with the Code, the Nominations Committee consists of a  , as requiredbythe NYSE.
In accordance with the Code, the following paragraphs describe Smith & Nephews Corporate Governance  themainPrinciplesset outinsectiononeofthe Code.
The Board The Board of directors of Smith & Nephew consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and eight independent non-executive directors, two of which were appointed since the year end.
In 2009, the Board met on 8 occasions and individual attendance together with attendance at Board Committee meetings, is shown in the table on page 55.
Warren Knowlton will be retiring from the Board at the annual general meeting AGM havingserved as .
The Scope of the Board The Board is responsible for the strategic direction and overall management of the Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions which include the approval of certain policies, budgets, financing plans, large capital expenditure projects, acquisitions, divestments and treasury arrangements.
Otherwise, it delegates the executive management of the Group to the Chief Executive and certain specific responsibilities to Board Committees, as described on pages 52 to 55.
It reviews the key activities and performance of the businesses and considers and reviews the work undertaken by the Committees.
Succession planning is regularly reviewed and appropriate measures are taken to ensure the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and experiencenecessary  company.
Non-executive directors meet regularly prior to each Board meeting without management in attendance.
The Senior Independent Director meets with the other non-executive directors annually to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also responsible to the Board for ensuringthat board  compliedwith.
Theappointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Board members individually and Board Committees may obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where they judge it necessary in order to fulfill their responsibilities as directors.
If directors are unable to attend a Board meeting or Board Committee meeting, they are advised of matters to be discussed and have an opportunity to make their views  Committeepriortothe meeting.
50 The Role of Individual Directors Whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Group, there is a clear division of respective responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairmans primary responsibility is leading the Board includingsetting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is Rolf Stomberg, whose role includes consulting with members of the Board on issues relating to the Chairman and chairing meetings of the Nominations and Audit Committee in the absence of the Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal .
Independence of  The Board has determined that all the non-executive directors are independent in accordance with UK and US requirements.
None of the non-executive directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group either directly as an employee or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship with the Group.
They do not receive additional remuneration apart from directors fees, do not participate in the Groups share option plans or performance related pay schemes, and are not members of the Groups pension schemes nor do they serve as a director of a company or an affiliate in &Nephewisadirector.
Rolf Stomberg, Warren Knowlton and Richard fide Schutter have served on the Board as non-executive directors since 1998, 2000 and 2001 respectively.
The Board considers that they continued to remain independent and to provide effective  team throughout2009, .
During the year, the Board benefited from their skills and experience: in particular, Rolf Stombergs leadership of the Board Evaluation process, his contribution in the search for new non-executive directors and the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee, Warren Knowltons Chairmanship of the Audit Committee and Richard fide Schutters Chairmanship of the Ethics and Compliance Committee.
Recognising however that long service on the Board may be considered to impact independence, the Board has undertaken a search for suitable additional  explained ingreater detail onpage 54.
Management of Conflicts of Interest None of the directors or their connected persons has any family relationship with any other director or officer nor has a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are or were a party during the .
Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing duty that a director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys articles of association permit directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts in accordance with the CA 2006 and to approve such situations.
Directors inform the Board of any situations which may give rise to a conflict of interest as they arise and this information is recorded in the Companys Register of Conflicts together with the date on which authorisation was given.
On an annual basis, directors certify that the information contained in the register is correct.
The Board has a procedure when deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
Firstly, only directors who have no interest in the matter under consideration are able to take the relevant decision.
Secondly, in taking the decisionthe directors must act ina way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, the directors may impose limits or conditions when giving authorisationif .
Duringtheyear,  rise to conflicts of interest.
Each of these situations was authorised by the Board, although no actual conflicts wereidentified.
Re-appointment of Directors Under the Companys articles of association, any director who has been appointed by the Board since the previous annual general meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director, holds office only until the next annual general meeting and then is eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
Genevive Berger and Ian Barlow, appointed on 5 March 2010, will retire at the AGM to be held on 6 May 2010 and will offer themselves for re-election.
Subsequently, directors retire and offer themselves for re-election at the third annual general meeting after the meeting at which they were last reappointed.
The directors are subject to removal with or .
51 Corporate Governance Statement Rolf Stomberg who has served 12 years as a director of the Company will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
In accordance with the articles of association, Adrian Hennah and Richard fide Schutter, who has served more than nine years, will also retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-electionat theAGM.
Board DevelopmentProgramme A number of training and development opportunities were identified for the Board during 2009.
As in previous years, the training focused mainly on increasing the Boards understanding of the business and markets in which the Company operates.
Throughout the year, each GBU presented to the Board on its business and the current challenges it faced.
These themes were explored in greater depth during the two day Strategy Review held in September.
In November, the Board visited the European headquarters of the Orthopaedics business in Aarau, Switzerland and the European Orthopaedics Distribution Centre in Baar, Switzerland, meeting with the senior European management team and receiving presentations on our products and processes.
Tailored development programmes have also been developed to support non-executive directors in specific roles.
For example, Richard fide Schutter has attended a number of briefing sessions to support him in his role of Chairman of the Ethics and ComplianceCommittee and Joseph Papa has begun a briefing programme to assist  .
Reviewinto the Effectivenessof the Board Towards the end of 2009, the Board undertook a review of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its key Committees.
The review was led by Rolf Stomberg, the Senior Independent Director, assisted by the Company Secretary and facilitated by Lintstock, an independent firm of corporate governance advisors.
The review took the form of an online questionnaire followed by a series of detailed confidential interviews with each director and the Company Secretary.
In February 2010, Lintstock presented the results of the review to the Board.
Overall, the review concluded that the Board and its Committees operate effectively, that individual directors bring a range of skills and experiences to the Board and that the non-executive directors in particular provide effective challenge to the Executive team.
The Board concluded that during the year, progress had been made in a number of areas relating to the effectiveness of the Board processes and identified further areas for improvement which could be made in2010.
Committees of the Board The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Ethics and Compliance Committees, each of which has its own terms of reference, which may be found on the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary or her designate is secretary to each of the Committees.
For each of the Committees the Chairman of the Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members ofthe Board.
Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are Warren Knowlton Chairman, Brian Larcombe, Richard fide Schutter, Rolf Stomberg, Joseph Papa appointed to the Audit Committee on 10 February 2009 and Ian Barlow appointed to the Audit Committee on 5 March 2010.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer attend meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation but are not members of the Committee.
Warren Knowlton will be retiring at the AGM and will be replaced as Chairman of the Audit Committee by Ian Barlow.
The Audit Committee meets without management in attendance, when appropriate, and meets with the auditors, without management present, fromtimetotime.
TheAudit Committeemet five times duringtheyear.
Theprincipalduties oftheAudit Committeeare: monitoring the integrity of the Groups accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and  containedinthem: : reviewing reports on compliance with accounting standards, appropriate accounting policies and practices and any changes to these, accounting and reporting issues: going concern assumptions: and anti fraud : monitoring the effectiveness of internal financial controls and reviewing compliance with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: 52 :  : recommending for shareholder approval the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as appropriate:  ofengagement oftheexternal auditors:   ofthe auditprocess: pre-approval oftheexternal : and reviewing arrangements by which staff may raise complaints against the group regarding financial reporting orothermatters.
For 2009, the Audit Committee considered quarterly reporting, the preliminary results and the Annual Accounts.
Due consideration was given to compliance with accounting standards, appropriate accounting policies and practices, accounting and reporting issues, going concern assumptions and Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
During the year, no concerns were raised with the Committee about possible improprieties in matters of financial .
The Audit Committee reviewed the activities of the Internal Audit department, its programme of work and resourcing requirements.
It reviewed the Groups approach to internal financial control, its processes, outcomes .
The Audit Committee also reviewed the work of the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP and received reports on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response.
These reports included accounting matters, governance and control and accounting developments.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the audit, audit-related, tax and other services provided by the external auditors and ensured that all services provided by the external auditors were pre-approved in accordance with the Auditor Independence policy explained in greater detail on page 57.
As part of the review into the services provided by the auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and was satisfied that it was appropriate .
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Rolf Stomberg Chairman, Pamela Kirby, Warren Knowlton, Richard fide Schutter and Joseph Papa appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 4 November 2009.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code and SEC and NYSE requirements.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year.
The principal duties of the Remuneration Committeeare reviewing: Theremuneration, , ofexecutive  officers:   directorsandthat ofotheremployees: The competitiveness of executive remuneration using data from independent consultants on companies of similarsize, : The performance targets for the bonus plan and long-term incentive plans and the performance against these targets: The operation of the long-term incentive plans, share option plans and performance related bonus plan,  : and Proposals .
The activities of the Remuneration Committee throughout 2009 are described in greater detail in the Directors RemunerationReport onpages 61to74.
53 Corporate Governance Statement Nominations Committee The members of the  Chairman, DavidIllingworth, Rolf Stomberg and Richard fide Schutter appointed to the Nominations Committee on 9 December 2009.
Rolf Stomberg and Richard   andNYSE requirements.
The Nominations Committee met once during the year and this meeting was attended by all members.
In addition, the   withmembers ofthe Nominations Committee both individually and collectively.
Other members of the Board have also been consulted on their views  .
Theprincipalduties : To review the Board structure, size and composition and to make recommendations to the Board accordingly: To identify and nominate suitable candidates to the Board to fill any Board vacancies as they arise, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience currently on the Board and which may be requiredinthefuture: To make recommendations to the Board on the continuation in office, or otherwise, of any executive director : To make recommendations to the Board regarding membership of the Board Committees and the fees paid :and To consider and if thought fit approve the appointment of any executive director as a non-executive director ofanothercompany.
During the year, the Nominations Committee recognised that three non-executive directors had served on the Board for periods of time which could give rise to questions about their continued independence.
Whilst the Board considers that all the non-executive directors are sufficiently independent regardless of their length of service, the Nominations Committee believed that it would be appropriate to consider plans for the Boards refreshment.
During the year therefore, the Nominations Committee has undertaken the following activity, assisted by the Group Director of Human Resources, the Company Secretary and an external firm of headhunters: A matrix was prepared detailing the skills and experience required collectively by the non-executive directors of the Company.
This matrix was then compared to the skills and experience of the current non-executive directors.
The full Board contributed to this process and, as a result, profiles of potential : A firm of headhunters was instructed to commence a search for suitable non-executive directors based on the profiles prepared.
A number of candidates were identified and the Committee recommended to the Boardthe  : It was agreed that Warren Knowlton who has served on the Board since 2000 and is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee would retire from the Board at the AGM tobe heldon6May2010:and It was also agreed that Rolf Stomberg and Richard fide Schutter, who have served on the Board since 1998 and 2001 respectively would continue to serve on the Board until such time as suitable replacements have been foundforthem, .
Should the need arise, the Senior Independent Director would oversee the process for the appointment of a new Chairman.
Ethicsand Compliance Committee The members of the Ethics and Compliance Committee are Richard fide Schutter Chairman, Pamela Kirby and Joseph Papa.
54 Theprincipalduties : Toreviewandapprove Grouppoliciesas theyrelate : To receive reports and review activities from executive and specialist groups managing ethical and compliancematters : Toreviewandapprove :  ofaudits &: To review ethical and compliance best practice and continuous improvement programmes by reference to appropriate external reports andbenchmarking: To review, where appropriate, the Groups internal communications and training in relation to ethical and : To review the Groups external communication and reporting in respect of ethical and compliance : To review the integration of ethical and compliance procedures with the business risk management programme:and Toreviewandapprove  andplans.
Duringthe year, theCommitteehas:  ComplianceProgramme: Overseen  Group: Overseen the transition of compliance processes under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement to the : Appointed  to undertake an Independent Compliance Assessment and received theirreports: and Received reports from management in relation to progress made under the Enhanced Global Compliance Programme, the activities of the US and Global Compliance programmes and concerns raised through the .
Board and Committee Attendance TheTable belowdetails attendance ofdirectorsat  heldthroughoutthe year: Ethicsand Remuneration Audit Nominations Compliance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 8meetings 3meetings 5meetings 1meeting 4meetings JohnBuchanan 8 1 DavidJ.
Illingworth 8 1 AdrianHennah 8 Pamela J. Kirby i 7 3 4 WarrenD.
Knowlton 8 3 5 BrianLarcombe i 8 4 Joseph C. Papa ii 8 1 5 4 RichardDeSchutter i 73514 Rolf W. H. Stomberg 8351 i Unable toattend due tocommitments arranged priortothemeeting.
ii Appointed toRemuneration Committeeon4November 2009. iii From time to time directors also attend Committee Meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman even if they are not members of  .
Liaisonwith Shareholders The executive directors meet regularly with investors to discuss the Companys business and financial performance both at the time of the announcement of results and at industry investor events.
During 2009, the executive directors held meetings with institutional investors, includinginvestors representing approximately 60% 55 Corporate Governance Statement of the share capital as at December 2009.
As part of this programme of investor meetings, during 2009, John Buchanan, the Chairman, met with investors representing 16% of the share capital.
Over the last three years, he has met investors representing in aggregate 50% of the share capital.
In 2009, Rolf Stomberg, the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Joseph Papa, member of the Remuneration Committee, met with institutional investors holding approximately 24% of the share capital to discuss remuneration matters.
com contains information of interest to both institutional investors and private shareholders, including financial information and webcasts of the results presentations to analysts for each quarter, as well as specific information for private shareholders relating tothe .
DirectorsIndemnity Arrangements Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance is in place and Deeds of Indemnity have been entered into between the Company and directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity allow for indemnification of directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties and for the Company to provide funds for directors ongoing costs in defending a legal action as they are incurred rather than after judgement has been given.
Individual directors would still be liable to pay any damages awarded to the Company in an action against them and to repay their defence costs totheextent  isunsuccessful.
Share Capital As at 17 March 2010, the Companys total issued share capital with voting rights consisted of 951,549,300 Ordinary Shares of 20 US cents each.
63,679,855 Ordinary Shares are held in treasury and are not includedinthe above figure.
As at 17 March 2010, notification had been received from the undernoted persons under the DTR in respect of interests in3% ormoreoftheissued OrdinaryShares oftheCompany.
NumberofShares 000 % NewtonInvestment Management Limited 45,129 5.1 ThornburgInvestment Management Inc. 44,852 5.1 Capital GroupofCompaniesInc.
44,594 5.0 LegalandGeneral Groupplc 35,329 4.0 FMR LLC 34,101 3.8 Other than disclosed above, the Company is not aware of any person who has a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company and is not aware of any persons holding securities which may control the Company.
Dividend The Board has declared a second interim dividend of 8.93 US cents per share which, together with the first interim dividend of 5.46 US cents, makes a total for 2009 of 14.39 US cents.
The second interim dividend will be paid  ofMembers at thecloseofbusiness on23April2010.
Annual General Meeting The Companys annual general meeting is to be held on 6 May 2010 at 11.00am at The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AG.
Notice of the meeting has been sent to all registered shareholders  fromtheChairman.
Corporate Headquarters and RegisteredOffice The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered office address is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
