SOCO International plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and develop strategy, values and standards while maintaining prudent and effective controls to assess and manage risk Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 SOCO wins ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Award In November SOCO was awarded the ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Award for Best Practice Disclosure on Director Development, Board Evaluation and Succession Planning.
The awards involve a rigorous process of evaluation of the disclosure performance of all companies in the FTSE 350 with the aim of identifying and rewarding high standards of disclosure.
The Non-Executive Directors, who undertake a supervisory role, contribute to the development of strategic proposals through constructive probing The Company is committed to the principles based on review and analysis that brings to bear contained in the Combined Code on Corporate the unique skills and knowledge each brings to Governance that was issued in 2008 by the the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors review Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code managements performance and ensure that the or the Code for which the Board is accountable systems in place provide adequate and effective Chairman and Chief Executive to shareholders.
financial, operational and compliance controls The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and risk management.
They must be satisfied that Officer are separated and their responsibilities The Company has applied the principles set out they have sufficient information for the discharge in section 1 of the Code, as described below and, are clearly established, set out in writing and of their duties, which may be achieved through agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and the in connection with Directors remuneration, in the dialogue with management, training where Directors Remuneration Report.
Chief Executive collectively are responsible for appropriate to update their knowledge or skills the leadership of the Company.
The Chairman and consultation with independent professional Statement of Compliance with is responsible for the leadership of the Board, advisors as required.
the Combined Code ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, role and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive the Company has complied with the provisions set is responsible for leading the executives and The Company out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
ensuring their effectiveness in the running of the Companys business and implementing manages a portfolio Board of Directors strategy and policy.
Together they are responsible The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial of long term, complex for promoting the highest standards of integrity leadership and develop strategy, values and and probity.
projects standards while maintaining prudent and effective controls to assess and manage risk.
The Board is Executive and Non-Executive Directors responsible for ensuring that the Company meets Executive Directors are responsible for its obligations to stakeholders and has adequate implementing the Boards agreed strategy through Company Secretary resources to meet its strategic objectives.
the development of an appropriate business plan The Company Secretary, who is appointed by and for executing actions approved by the Board in the Board, is responsible for facilitating the The Board of Directors, whose names and accordance with relevant authorities.
The division communications and processes of the Board, biographical details are set out on pages 34 to of responsibilities between the Executive Directors both within the Board and its committees and is set by the Board.
35, comprises ten Directors in addition to the with management, in compliance with Board Chairman.
After an assessment process set out procedures and governance guidelines.
The The Executive Directors provide the leadership in more detail below, seven of these ten, including Secretary facilitates an induction programme the Senior Independent Director, have been of the senior managers in the day-to-day running on appointment that is tailored to a new Directors identified in the Annual Report of the Directors of the Groups business and manage the Groups individual qualifications and experience.
The on page 37 as independent in character and risk programmes including the environmental, Secretary provides advice and service as may judgement giving full consideration to those health and safety performance of the business.
be required in the ongoing discharge of the circumstances that the Code states may appear They must ensure the Company has adequate Directors duties, including ensuring that the relevant.
Notwithstanding this, the Board is financial and human resources to meet its Company provides the necessary resources for satisfied that each of the Companys Directors objectives.
They are responsible for reporting the access to independent advice and individual strictly abides by their legal and ethical duties performance and strategic direction of the Group professional development needs.
Additionally, owed to the Company to act objectively and in to the Board and for providing accurate, timely briefing sessions are provided in the course of the best interests of the Company and its and clear information to enable the Board to regular Board meetings and Committee meetings shareholders as a whole.
on relevant issues as deemed appropriate.
SOCO International plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance continued Reappointment In conducting its current assessment the Board referred to guidance setting out criteria deemed Directors are subject to reappointment at Board Balance and Independence least every three years.
Reappointment is relevant to determining whether a Director The Board embraces the underlying principles continues to exhibit those qualities and recommended in consideration of the results of Code provisions regarding tenure and of individual evaluation and demonstrated behaviours it considers essential to be considered refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike independent.
A specific set of focused criteria continued satisfactory performance, commitment an appropriate balance between continuity of and effectiveness.
Consideration is given to the was applied to the assessment of long tenured experience and succession.
Consideration was also given to the broad capabilities represented on the Board and that an individuals independence cannot be results of individual evaluation and continued the ability of these to meet the unique challenges determined arbitrarily on the basis of a set period satisfactory performance.
Following assessment, facing the Company.
Consideration is additionally of time.
The Company manages a portfolio of long Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and Mr Martin given to the balance of the Boards composition term, complex projects and benefits from long Roberts were determined to be independent.
and the need for refreshment.
A Non-Executive serving Directors with detailed knowledge of the Mr Robert Cathery and Dr Mike Watts were Director term exceeding six years is subject to Companys operations and with the proven determined to be independent despite former particularly rigorous review, and a term exceeding commitment, experience and competence to roles as a director of a former Company advisor nine years is subject to annual reappointment.
effectively advise and oversee the Companys and as a cross-director with the Chief Executive, The process for considering reappointments management on behalf of shareholders.
These relationships have ceased is described more fully in the Nominations Company does not impose fixed term limits as and are not relevant to the determination of Committee section below.
this would assure a loss of experience and independence under the Code.
Any current knowledge without assurance of increased outside links to other Directors are not considered Following this process the Board recommends independence.
Accordingly, the Boards significant and in particular do not result in the reappointment of the retiring Directors, each assessment of independence is of prime reciprocal influence.
having offered themselves for reappointment.
importance to ensure that retention of experience does not result in a failure to retain a sufficient After particular scrutiny, Mr Peter Kingston, Mr Succession and Appointments contingent of independent Directors.
The Company has an ongoing process for John Norton and Mr Olivier Barbaroux, each having served on the Board for more than nine assessing the specific competencies required on the Board.
Due to the nature of its business, years, were determined to be independent.
Each of these Directors continues to express the Companys expectation of a Non-Executive The Board seeks to Directors most appropriate term of office is their individual viewpoints, debate issues and objectively scrutinise and challenge management.
generally longer than that envisioned in Code ensure that retention guidelines.
The Company undertakes projects Each seeks clarification and amplification as of experience does not deemed required, including through direct access requiring long term cycles from licence to the Groups employees and external advisors.
negotiation to first production and benefits result in an insufficient After careful consideration of the relevant factors, from continuity of experience throughout the contingent of the Board has determined that the tenure of these process.
In South East Asia, its Vietnam Directors has not affected their independence programme is of major significance to the independent Directors or their ability to bring judgement to bear in the Company and, with one field now in production, discharge of their duties as Board and Committee it continues with a large, more complex members.
The Board considers that the varied development phase to be conducted over the The independence of each Non-Executive and relevant experience of its independent next several years.
Additionally, the Company is Director is assessed at least annually.
To be Directors combines to provide an exceptional advancing its Africa portfolio further through the identified as independent a Director must be balance of skills and experience required for exploration phase, and an ongoing exploration determined independent in character and the business.
Being satisfied of his continued drilling programme which commenced in 2009. judgement and free from any relationships independence, and following a specific review or circumstances which are likely to affect, or of Board roles undertaken in conjunction with After assessment of the competencies required could appear to affect, their judgement including succession, the Board additionally considers on the Board, the current Non-Executive Directors in particular those set out in the Code.
Particular that Mr Kingstons time commitment and comprise an appropriate balance of skills and scrutiny is applied in assessing the continued expertise continue to best position him to experience.
Those Non-Executive Directors independence of Directors having served over provide the independent leadership and reappointed in 2009 have acquired, over a nine years, with attention to ensuring their guidance required in the continuation of his roles number of years, a sound and detailed knowledge allegiance remains clearly aligned with as Senior Independent Director and committee of the Companys business and are uniquely shareholders.
Board refreshment and tenure chairmanships.
The Board will continue to apply qualified to contribute to the Companys are considered together, and weighed for relevant rigorous scrutiny in its assessment to ensure leadership.
Accordingly, a succession allowing benefit in the foreseeable circumstances, given independence remains evident in Board and for some refreshment while maximising continuity further that the Board should not be enlarged Committee practice, and in the qualities and of experience was considered to be in the best to a size that is unwieldy.
behaviours of each of its members.
Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Accountability and Audit Directors and Auditors Responsibilities strategy and decisions taken by the Board is As stated in the Annual Report of the Directors, Mr largely delegated to the Executive Directors and The responsibilities of the Directors and auditors John Snyder retired at the 2009 Annual General are set out in the Annual Report of the Directors management within a system of internal controls Meeting AGM and, as described in the designed to enable the risks of the Group to be on pages 36 to 39 and in the Independent Nominations Committee section below, the Auditors Report on page 59. managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has Company undertook a process to identify established clear expectations for the Companys independent Non-Executive Director candidates Going Concern economic, social and environmental conduct to who could add value to the Board through promote the highest level of integrity and honesty The Groups financial statements have been complementary qualifications.
This resulted in the prepared on a going concern basis as described in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
appointments of Ambassador Antnio Monteiro SOCOs Board membership comprises a broad in the Financial Review on page 25 and the and Dr Mike Watts in June 2009 and August Annual Report of the Directors on page 39. range of skills, knowledge and experience, which 2009, respectively.
While each brings a broad is critical to the success of the Company.
The range of valuable skills to the Board, they Risk Management and Board functions as a unitary body, within which additionally provide specific complementary Directors assume certain roles to ensure the Internal Control qualifications in particular through added The Directors are responsible for establishing, Board as a whole fulfils its responsibilities.
These expertise within the Africa region and international roles, including Committee memberships, are maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness exploration, respectively.
Each was appointed to of a sound system of internal control which designed to maximise the effective contribution two Committees in accordance with a review of of each of the Non-Executive Directors to the is designed to provide reasonable assurance Committee memberships and Chairmanships regarding the reliability of financial information Board, its Committees and to the Executive undertaken as part of this process.
The new Directors, while ensuring an appropriate balance and to safeguard the shareholders investment Directors will be placed before shareholders for and the assets of the Company and Group.
The composition of the Board and election at the 2010 AGM, being the first AGM its Committees is in accordance with Code the inherent limitations in any system of internal following their appointment.
No Director serves on more than two control, even a sound system can only provide from both the additional expertise and the committees.
At least annually, the Non-Executive reasonable assurance, and not absolute assurance, refreshment of Board and Committee Directors meet without the Executives present that the Company will not be hindered in achieving membership derived from these appointments.
and, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet its business objectives or be protected against Following a period of induction and assimilation, without the Chairman present.
Such meetings are material misstatement or loss.
the Board will continue planning for a phased conducted in the spirit of good governance and succession which allows for an appropriate process, and are intended to ensure a forum for The Board has put in place formally defined balance of refreshment and continuity.
open dialogue without disruption of Board unity.
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority and has delegated to executive management Conflicts of Interest the implementation of material internal control Directors have power to authorise, where systems.
Documented policies and procedures SOCOs Board appropriate, a situation where a Director has, are in place for key systems and processes and or can have, a direct or indirect interest that the authority of the Directors is required for comprises a broad conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the key matters.
range of knowledge, Companys interests.
Such authority is in accordance with section 175 of the 2006 A comprehensive budgeting process is in place skills and experience Companies Act the 2006 Act.
Procedures are for all items of expenditure and an annual budget in place for ensuring that the Boards powers is approved by the Board.
Actual results are of authorisation are operated effectively.
reported against budget on a regular basis.
Board Structure and Process Directors are required to notify the Company Revised forecasts for the year and longer term The Board typically has four scheduled meetings of any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts financial projections are produced regularly a year and holds additional meetings as of interest that may arise, before they arise throughout the year.
During 2009, the Board held four either in relation to the Director concerned or scheduled meetings as deemed required for his connected persons.
The decision to authorise The Board has the primary responsibility for the effective discharge of its duties during the each situation is considered separately on its identifying the major business risks facing period.
Attendance of Directors at scheduled particular facts.
Only Directors who have no the Company and Group and developing Board meetings and attendance of members interest in the matter are able to take the relevant appropriate policies to manage those risks.
at the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations decision, and must act in a way they consider, The risk management approach is used to focus Committees is set out in the table on page 45. in good faith, will be most likely to promote attention on the Groups most significant areas The Board determines the Companys business the Companys success.
The Directors will of risk and to determine key control objectives.
strategy and provides the entrepreneurial impose such limits or conditions as they deem The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the leadership required to ensure its strategic aims appropriate when giving authorisation or when Combined Code, by establishing a continuous can be achieved.
The Board operates within a an actual conflict arises.
These may include process, which has been in place throughout the formal framework of decision making designed provisions relating to confidential information, year to the date of this report and which is in to reserve matters of establishing the strategy, attendance at Board meetings and availability accordance with revised guidance on internal business plan and nature or scope of the of Board papers, along with other measures control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Companys business to the Board.
Under this as determined appropriate.
The Board reviews Guidance, for identifying, evaluating and framework, authority for implementing the its conflict authorisations at least annually.
managing the significant risks the Group faces.
SOCO International plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance continued Internal Audit Function Although the Company does not currently have an internal audit function, the Directors review at least annually the need to establish such a The Company has assigned a senior executive function.
The Companys current staff size limits the responsibility for investor relations and has the ability to form an effective internal audit employed an outside agency, both to provide The Board regularly reviews the process, which function and, accordingly, the Company assistance in the dissemination of information is constantly evolving to meet the demands of outsources any internal audit requirements.
to shareholders and the general public and to a dynamic environment.
actively solicit feedback as to the effectiveness of such efforts.
Additionally, the Company In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the maintains an ongoing, active dialogue with The Board has Combined Code, the effectiveness of the Groups institutional shareholders, specifically and system of internal control, including financial, proactively seeking opportunities for face-to-face established clear operational and compliance controls and risk meetings at least twice a year, coincident with expectations for management, is regularly reviewed by the half year and full year results, between fund Directors.
The review is based principally on managers and Company executive management.
the Companys discussions with management and on reviewing economic, social reports provided by management to consider Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, Board meetings and public relations and analysts and environmental managed and controlled, but also may include reports are distributed to the full Board.
A conduct independent interaction with employees or third Non-Executive Director maintains regular parties.
Particular scrutiny is applied to the review communications with SOCOs major institutional of controls applicable to new or evolving areas of shareholders, reports feedback directly to the risks as they are identified.
Relations with Shareholders Board and advises the Board when additional The Executive Directors are responsible for communication from the Chairman, Senior The Board considers whether appropriate actions ensuring effective communication is maintained Independent or other Non-Executive Directors with key stakeholders and partners, including are taken promptly to correct any significant has been requested.
The Chairman regularly weaknesses identified, and if more extensive establishing an appropriate level of contact with interfaces with other principal shareholders.
major shareholders and ensuring that their views monitoring may be required.
The Board confirms The Board considers whether additional that such actions as deemed necessary and are communicated to the Board.
The Noncommunication may be appropriate or desirable.
Executive Directors are responsible for taking appropriate have been or are being taken to In particular, the delegated role of the Senior remedy any significant failings or weaknesses sufficient steps to understand these views, Independent Director includes being available identified in its review.
The Board seeks to ensure including any issues or concerns.
to shareholders if they have concerns which that internal control and risk management cannot be fully or appropriately addressed by processes, including dealing with any identified SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
areas of improvement, are embedded within the with shareholders.
The Company maintains an Committees business.
internet website wherein important information can be posted and disseminated promptly to a The Board has established three Committees, as described below, each having formal terms The Board has performed a specific assessment wide audience and through which shareholders for the purpose of this Annual Report and can electronically interface with executive of reference TOR approved by the Board which set out its delegated role and authority.
The TORs, Accounts, which considers all significant aspects management.
At a minimum, the Company of internal control arising during the period, provides three personal communication forums which are available for inspection, are set in consideration of the provisions of the Combined and is satisfied with the process employed annually the AGM, the presentation of Annual and the results thereof.
The Audit Committee Results and the presentation of Half Year Results Code and are reviewed from time to time in the spearheads the Board in discharging its review whereby shareholders can directly interface context of evolving guidance.
Audit Committee membership with Company executive management.
Notice specific Committee memberships, including as comprises highly experienced professionals of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders at Chairmen, are set out on pages 34 and 35.
Whilst with complementary areas of expertise in the least 21 clear days prior to the meeting, and only Committee members are entitled to attend oil and gas sector and each Committee member resolutions are proposed for each substantially meetings, other Directors are invited to attend makes an important contribution to the assurance separate issue.
The result of proxy voting is from time to time to ensure the Committees process.
Each member undertakes specific announced after votes are taken on a show responsibilities are undertaken with access to the review processes in their areas of financial and of hands.
Directors are available to answer Boards full breadth of knowledge and experience.
audit, technical and operating, diplomatic and shareholder questions and, in particular, the The Company Secretary ensures that the commercial and legal expertise and reports the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Company additionally provides such resources results of their work to the full Committee and Nominations Committees are in attendance as the Committees require in the discharge of to the Board.
to respond to any specific queries.
Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 Meeting Attendance by Directors and Committee Members Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Meeting Committee Committee Committee Meeting Meeting Meeting R fide Sousa P Kingston O Barbaroux R Cagle R Cathery E Contini A Monteiro J Norton M Roberts J Snyder E Story M Watts Denotes a scheduled meeting attended Denotes a scheduled meeting not attended Denotes a Director who was appointed to the Board or to a Committee during 2009 Denotes a Director who retired from the Board and from a Committee during 2009 Audit Committee The Audit Committees primary responsibilities include reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys and the Groups systems of internal control, overseeing the selection of and Meetings relationship with external auditors and the review The Audit Committee meets at least three first appointed in 2002.
The Committee also and monitoring of the integrity of financial times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer and considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the statements.
The Committee is responsible for a representative of the external auditors are auditor from the market and noted that there are normally invited to attend meetings.
Other no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of review of the Groups major financial, operational and corporate responsibility risk management Directors are invited to attend as determined external auditors.
The Board concurred with appropriate or beneficial.
At least once a year the Committees recommendation for the processes.
The effectiveness of these processes is monitored on a continuous basis and a formal the Committee meets with the external auditors reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys assessment is conducted at least annually.
The without executive Board members present.
Committee has been delegated the responsibility The Committee held three meetings in 2009 The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied for advising the full Board on compliance with the Combined Code, including its risk management and has conducted one meeting to date in 2010, with, the Companys arrangements whereby and internal control requirements, as well as all of which were attended by executive staff may raise concerns regarding improprieties compliance with evolving guidance on corporate management and external auditors.
A private in confidence, which would be addressed governance issues generally.
session, without executives present, was held with appropriate follow-up action.
On behalf during three of these meetings.
Additionally, of the Board, the Committee has reviewed the Composition of the Audit Committee a number of other informal meetings and effectiveness of the Companys internal controls The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Peter communications took place between the and risk management systems, including Kingston, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman, various Committee members, consideration of an internal audit function, which Director, and additionally comprises Mr John external auditors and the Companys is more fully described in the Risk Management Norton, Mr Martin Roberts, Ambassador Antnio executives and employees.
and Internal Control section of this report.
The Monteiro appointed 10 June 2009 and Dr Committee has reviewed and approved the Mike Watts appointed 14 August 2009 who Overview of Activities related compliance statements set out therein.
The The Committee reviewed and approved the The Committee has additionally reviewed and terms and scope of the audit engagement, the qualifications of each of the members are set out approved the statements regarding compliance on pages 34 and 35.
The Board is satisfied that audit plan and the results of the audit with the with the Combined Code.
The Committee external auditors, including the scope of services the collective experience of the members includes reviewed and discussed with management and relevant and recent financial experience and associated with audit related regulatory reporting the auditors the Companys relevant financial services.
An assessment of the effectiveness of provides the complement of skills required for the information prior to recommendation for Board Committee to discharge its functions effectively.
the audit process was made, giving consideration approval.
This included in particular the financial In particular, Mr Norton is a Chartered Accountant to reports from the auditors on their internal statements and other material information and former member of the Oil Industry Accounting quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor presented in the annual and half year reports.
The refreshment of Committee independence and objectivity was assessed, The Committee considered the significant membership through two new appointments has giving consideration to the auditors confirmation financial reporting issues, accounting policies and renewed the integrity of its ongoing processes in that their independence is not impaired, the judgements impacting the financial statements, addition to adding valuable and complementary overall extent of non-audit services provided by and the clarity of disclosures.
The Committee expertise to bear in particular to its risk the external auditors as described further below conducted a review of its TOR and of the management processes.
and the past service of the auditors who were effectiveness of its own performance.
SOCO International plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance continued which would complement the composition of the External Auditors Non-Audit Services Board and its Committees.
The Committee would In its process to assure continued auditor expect to utilise an independent external advisor independence, it is the Committees policy to facilitate any search.
A diverse list of to review all proposed non-audit services on During the year the Committee reviewed Board candidates is compiled and a rigorous review a case by case basis, rather than by reference structure, size and composition, including a process undertaken, involving other Board to pre-allowed or disallowed services, and profile of the skills, knowledge and experience members as deemed appropriate.
Committee regardless of size or scope.
In particular, the represented on the Board, which was utilised recommendations are submitted for full Board Committee closely monitors the terms on which to facilitate the Boards review of Director approval.
The Company Secretary facilitates independence, including tenure in particular.
the Remuneration Committee, with approval induction upon appointment.
The Committee of the Audit Committee, has independently The Committee made recommendations to the successfully conducted a search utilising this Board concerning plans for succession which appointed the Companys auditors as advisors.
process in 2009 to identify a candidate to replace The advisors terms of reference restrict the were developed in consideration of the need for Mr John Snyder who retired at the last AGM.
An refreshment while taking into account the skills provision of certain services in order to maintain additional suitable candidate was subsequently auditor independence and the scope and value and experience needed on the Board to meet identified and added to the Board.
Further details the specific challenges and opportunities facing of services to the Group is under continuous of the process undertaken by the Board in 2009 review.
The Committee approved the non-audit the Company.
The results of these reviews were can be found in the Succession and Appointments in turn utilised in developing the Committees services provided by the external auditors in section above.
2009, having concluded such services were recommendations for Board appointments as well as for continuation in office and Performance Evaluation compatible with auditor independence and were consistent with relevant ethical guidance.
The Committee led the Board in evaluating its own performance and that of its Committees Details of these non-audit services are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The Company Secretary facilitated compilation of the results.
The Senior Consideration is Nominations Committee Independent Director facilitated relevant The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr discussions regarding the role of the Chairman.
given to the broad Rui fide Sousa, the Non-Executive Chairman of The process was undertaken for the purpose of capabilities the Company.
It additionally comprises Mr Ed adding value to the quality of the Board and its Story, the Chief Executive Officer, and Mr Olivier procedures through identifying and addressing represented on the Barbaroux, Mr John Norton, Mr Robert Cathery strengths and weaknesses.
Additionally, it was Board and the ability appointed 10 June 2009 and Dr Mike Watts utilised to assess Director effectiveness and the appointed 14 August 2009, who are independent time commitments of Non-Executive Directors.
of these to meet the Non-Executive Directors.
Mr John Snyder served Actions for improvement were undertaken as unique challenges on the Committee until his retirement at the 2009 deemed appropriate.
The Committee meets at least once a year.
a review of its TOR and of its own performance facing the Company Its primary responsibilities include making as part of this process.
recommendations to the Board regarding the Remuneration Committee appointment and reappointment of Directors and Committee memberships.
It is responsible for After giving consideration to Board structure The Remuneration Committee is chaired by and composition, evaluations, time commitments, Mr Peter Kingston, the Senior Independent review and recommendations regarding overall Board structure and composition, succession length of service, individual contributions, Non-Executive Director, and additionally refreshment and the requirements of the Board, comprises Mr Olivier Barbaroux, Mr Martin planning and establishing an ongoing process for evaluating the Board and its members.
the Committee recommended that each of the Roberts, Mr Robert Cathery appointed 10 retiring Directors, including those offering to stand June 2009 and Ambassador Antnio Monteiro The Committee held two meetings in 2009 for reappointment and those standing for election appointed 11 August 2009, who are independent at the first AGM following appointment, be and has conducted one meeting to date in 2010.
The names and Other Non-Executive Directors were in attendance proposed by the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
qualifications of each of the members are set at a portion of these meetings by invitation.
The Committee is Certain Committee functions were delegated to Process for Board Appointments responsible for recommending for approval The Committee has a process in place for a sub-committee, which acted on behalf of the by the full Board the remuneration of the Committee after an appropriate dialogue among identifying and nominating candidates to fill Chairman, the Executive Directors and the vacancies which may arise from time to time, Committee members to ensure a consensus of Company Secretary.
Additionally, a number of other informal including ensuring Board membership is conducted a review of its TOR and of the sufficiently refreshed and retains an appropriate meetings and communications took place effectiveness of its own performance.
Details between the Chairman, various Committee balance of skills and experience.
The Committee of the Committees policies and objectives are develops an appropriate description of the role, members and the Companys executives set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and employees.
estimated time commitment and the capabilities on pages 48 to 56.
Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 The Board promotes the highest level of integrity and honesty
