122 Financial Statements Preparation of the Financial Statements and Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing For the Parent Company Financial The Directors are responsible for the the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information Statements, state whether applicable maintenance and integrity of the corporate and the Group and Parent Company UK Accounting Standards have been and financial information included on the Financial Statements in accordance with followed, subject to any material Companys website.
Legislation in the UK applicable law and regulations.
departures disclosed and explained in the governing the preparation and dissemination Parent Company Financial Statements.
of financial statements may differ from Company law requires the Directors to prepare Prepare the financial statements on legislation in other jurisdictions.
Group and Parent Company Financial the going concern basis unless it is Statements for each financial year.
Under that inappropriate to presume that the Group Directors responsibility statement law they are required to prepare the Group and the Parent Company will continue pursuant to DTR 4 Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs in business.
The Directors confirm that to the best of as adopted by the EU and applicable law and our knowledge: have elected to prepare the Parent Company The Directors are responsible for keeping Financial Statements in accordance with UK adequate accounting records that are The Financial Statements, prepared in Accounting Standards and applicable law sufficient to show and explain the Parent accordance with the applicable set of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Companys transactions and disclose accounting standards, give a true and with reasonable accuracy at any time the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Under company law the Directors must not financial position of the Parent Company position and profit or loss of the Company approve the financial statements unless they and enable them to ensure that its financial and the undertakings included in the are satisfied that they give a true and fair view statements comply with the Companies Act consolidation taken as a whole.
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 2006.
They have general responsibility for The Directors Report includes a fair review Company and of their profit or loss for that taking such steps as are reasonably open of the development and performance of period.
In preparing each of the Group and to them to safeguard the assets of the the business and the position of the issuer Parent Company Financial Statements, the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and and the undertakings included in the Directors are required to: other irregularities.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Select suitable accounting policies Under applicable law and regulations, the and uncertainties that they face.
and then apply them consistently.
Directors are also responsible for preparing Make judgements and estimates that a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration On behalf of the Board of Directors on are reasonable and prudent.
Report and Corporate Governance 28 January 2010: For the Group Financial Statements, Statement that complies with that law and state whether they have been prepared those regulations.
David R Brennan in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Director by the EU.
Directors Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal Control over Financial Reporting The Directors are responsible for establishing Due to its inherent limitations, internal control Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or Commission in Internal Control-Integrated over financial reporting.
Based on this assessment, the internal control over financial reporting is evaluation of effectiveness to future periods Directors believe that, as at 31 December designed to provide reasonable assurance 2009, the internal control over financial are subject to the risks that controls may over the reliability of financial reporting and become inadequate because of changes in reporting is effective based on those criteria.
the preparation of consolidated financial conditions or that the degree of compliance statements in accordance with generally with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered accepted accounting principles.
public accounting firm, has audited the The Directors assessed the effectiveness of effectiveness of internal control over financial AstraZenecas internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2009 and, reporting as at 31 December 2009 based as explained on page 123, has issued an unqualified report thereon.
on the criteria set forth by the Committee of AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
