Financial Statements 123 Auditors Reports on the Financial Statements and on Internal Control over Financial Reporting SarbanesOxley Act Section 404 The report set out below is provided in and Exchange Commission.
Those reports KPMG Audit Plc has also reported separately compliance with International Standards on are unqualified and include opinions on on the Company Financial Statements of Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG Audit Plc the Group Financial Statements and on the AstraZeneca PLC and on the information has also issued reports in accordance with effectiveness of internal control over financial in the Directors Remuneration Report that auditing standards of the Public Company reporting as at 31 December 2009 Sarbanesis described as having been audited.
This Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which Oxley Act Section 404.
The Directors audit report is set out on page 187. will be included in the Annual Report on statement on internal control over financial Form 20-F to be filed with the US Securities reporting is set out on page 122.
Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC We have audited the Group Financial Scope of the audit of the Matters on which we are required Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year financial statements to report by exception ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages A description of the scope of an audit of We have nothing to report in respect of 124 to 186.
The financial reporting framework financial statements is provided on the APBs the following: that has been applied in their preparation is website, frc.
applicable law and International Financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Opinion on financial statements required to report to you if, in our opinion: the EU.
In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements: Certain disclosures of Directors This report is made solely to the Companys Give a true and fair view of the state of the Remuneration specified by law are members, as a body, in accordance with Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 not made.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act and of its profit for the year then ended.
We have not received all the information 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Have been properly prepared in and explanations we require for our audit.
so that we might state to the Companys accordance with IFRSs as adopted members those matters we are required to by the EU.
Under the Listing Rules we are required state to them in an auditors report and for Have been prepared in accordance with to review: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the requirements of the Companies Act permitted by law, we do not accept or 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors Statement, set out on pages assume responsibility to anyone other than 128 and 129, in relation to going concern.
the Company and the Companys members, Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs The part of the corporate governance as a body, for our audit work, for this report, as issued by the IASB statement relating to the Companys or for the opinions we have formed.
As explained in the Accounting Policies compliance with the nine provisions of section to the Group Financial Statements the June 2008 Combined Code specified Respective responsibilities of set out on pages 128 to 132, the Group, in for our review.
directors and auditors addition to complying with its legal obligation As explained more fully in the Directors to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Other matters Responsibilities Statement set out on page Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued We have reported separately on the 122, the Directors are responsible for the by the International Accounting Standards Parent Company Financial Statements of preparation of the Group Financial Board IASB.
AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended Statements and for being satisfied that they 31 December 2009 and on the information give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements in the Directors Remuneration Report that to audit the Group Financial Statements in comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
is described as having been audited.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Opinion on other matter prescribed Jimmy Daboo Ireland.
Those standards require us to by the Companies Act 2006 Senior Statutory Auditor comply with the Auditing Practices Boards In our opinion the information given in the APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors Report for the financial year for For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc which the Group Financial Statements are Statutory Auditor prepared is consistent with the Group Chartered Accountants Financial Statements.
8 Salisbury Square, London, EC4Y 8BB 28 January 2010 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
