Directors Report | Risk 79 Corporate Governance Risk function are required, prior to the QBRs, to Line and project management are provide quarterly updates on their key risks accountable for the management of risk which are then consolidated into the relevant within the context of their functional or crossIn this section we describe our key risk SET function list of key risks for review at the functional remit or project.
Line managers management and assurance mechanisms, QBRs.
The top 10 risks of each SET function have primary responsibility for identifying and the principal risks and uncertainties are then aggregated into a Group risk register.
and managing risk and for putting in place which we currently consider to be material The purpose of the risk review is threefold: appropriate controls and procedures to to our business in that they may have a i to identify and measure risks: ii to define monitor their effectiveness.
significant effect on our financial condition, and review plans to mitigate risks we do not results of operations and or reputation.
wish to take: and iii to define and review plans Oversight and monitoring Specific risks and uncertainties are also to manage those risks we do wish to take.
The Board is responsible for overseeing discussed at various points in this Directors A risk management standard, guidelines and and monitoring the effectiveness of the risk Report, where relevant.
supporting tools are in place to support management processes implemented by the managers in the effective identification, management.
Specialist risk and compliance Managing risk management, mitigation and reporting of risks.
functions including Group Internal Audit As a global, innovation-driven GIA support the Board by providing advice biopharmaceutical company, we face a Our approach to risk management includes and monitoring and testing the adequacy of diverse range of risks and uncertainties the development of business resilience plans to the processes.
that may adversely affect our business.
provide for situations where specific risks have Our approach to risk management is designed the potential to severely impact our business.
Our compliance organisation comprises a to encourage clear decision-making as Global business resilience plans covering wide range of specialist groups whose work to which risks we accept and which risks crisis management, business continuity and includes liaising with line management and we manage to an acceptable level, in each emergency responses are in place, supported the SET to develop systems and processes case informed by an understanding of the by the training of relevant business managers for managing risk in specific regulated areas commercial, financial, compliance and and crisis simulation activities.
to ensure ongoing legal and regulatory reputational implications of these risks.
These groups include: Good One of our strategic priorities, Promote a Laboratory: Clinical and Manufacturing We work continuously to ensure that we culture of responsibility and accountability, Compliance: Safety, Health and Environment: have effective risk management processes involves the continued nurturing of a culture Medical and Regulatory Affairs: Financial in place to support the delivery of our of responsibility and accountability.
Our Control and Compliance: Information strategic objectives, the material needs Code of Conduct and our Global Policies Security and Data Privacy: Sales and of our stakeholders and our core values.
and Standards set mandatory minimum Marketing Compliance: and Security.
We monitor our business activities and our standards of responsible behaviour for all external and internal environments for new employees.
In addition, all employees We have a dedicated Global CR team who and emerging risks to ensure that these are receive annual training on the requirements are part of the Group Public Affairs function proactively managed at the appropriate level of our Code of Conduct, as well as more and whose work includes public policy and as they arise.
specific targeted training on particular policies reputation management.
The Global CR team and standards.
Employees are encouraged leads the development of our CR strategy and The Board believes that the processes to raise questions on the practical application the alignment of tactical delivery.
The team and accountabilities which are in place and of these standards and to report suspected works closely with senior leaders across described below in further detail provide it breaches and incidents of non-compliance AstraZeneca, and with our Global Compliance with adequate information on the key risks and through the reporting channels described function, to ensure that the CR risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Further in our Code of Conduct.
During 2009, opportunities are identified and managed information about the risks and uncertainties we developed and launched a combined appropriately, in line with business objectives, facing the business are set out in the Principal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility and to ensure compliance with all relevant risks and uncertainties section from page 80.
CR Responsible Business scorecard with policies and standards inclusive of the 16 defined objectives and accountabilities, to Principles of our Code of Conduct.
Identified Embedded in business processes track performance consistently across all SET risks are mapped to AstraZenecas risk We strive to ensure sound risk management functions and enable quarterly reporting to taxonomy, which provides a structured is embedded within our business and the SET, the Audit Committee and Professor disaggregation of the potential strategic, performance management processes.
Dame Nancy Rothwell the Non-Executive operational, control compliance and Director responsible for overseeing CR within reputational risks facing AstraZeneca.
Annually, the Group develops a long-term the Group, as well as annual reporting to the business plan to support the delivery of its Board and the SET.
Management reporting and assurance strategy.
Each area for which a SET member The Audit Committee is a Committee of the is responsible SET function is required to Key responsibilities Board currently comprising five Non-Executive provide a comprehensive assessment of its Management of risk Directors and is accountable, amongst other risks as part of the annual business planning Day-to-day management of risk is delegated things, for assessing the adequacy and process.
The CEO and the CFO undertake from the Board to the CEO and through the effectiveness of the risk management quarterly business reviews QBRs in respect SET to line managers.
SET management systems and processes implemented by of each SET function at which the key risks areas are accountable for establishing an management.
In addition to the reports it relating to the relevant SET function are appropriate line management-led process receives from the GIA function, the Audit reviewed.
Underpinning this review, the and for providing the resources for Committee also regularly receives reports managers of the key areas within each SET supporting effective risk management.
from: i the Global Compliance function AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
