Corporate GovernanCe report Corporate GovernanCe The Board of directors of the Company is committed to maintaining high Dave Singleton has been appointed the Senior Independent Non-Executive standards of corporate governance and to managing the affairs of the Group Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have failed in accordance with the provisions of the Listing Rules and of the Combined to be resolved through the normal channels of Acting Chairman, Executive Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive, or Group Finance director, or for which such June 2008 the Combined Code.
A copy of the Combined Code is available channels are inappropriate.
on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance processes and policies, and The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2009 the Year the Executive Deputy Chairman, whose wholly owned company, MASH Holdings Ltd Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code except as set out currently holds approximately 71.2% of the issued share capital of the Company below.
excluding treasury shares, which agreement is described in the Directors Report on page 15.
The Combined Code code provision A3.2 recommends that at least half of the Board of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the Chairman, Given the structure of the Board and the terms of the Relationship Agreement, should be comprised of non-executive directors determined by the Board the Board believes that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate to be independent in character and judgement and free from relationships the Boards decision making.
or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgment.
During the Year the Board was made up of the Acting Chairman, The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a formal, three executive directors and two independent non-executive directors.
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to Accordingly during the Year the Company did not comply with this provision of the Board.
The composition of that Committee and a description of its terms of the Combined Code in this regard.
reference are set out on page 20.
The Combined Code also provides code provisions B2.1 and C3.1 that each Details of executive directors service contracts and of the Acting Chairmans of the Remuneration and Audit Committees of the Board should comprise of and the non-executive directors appointment letters are given on page 24. at least three independent non-executive directors.
The Code also provides Copies of service contracts and of appointment letters are available for that, in respect of the Remuneration Committee, the Company Chairman may inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and also be a member, but not chair, the Committee if he or she was considered at the Annual General Meeting.
independent on appointment as Chairman.
During the Year these committees comprised two independent non executive directors and the Acting Chairman.
Executive directors normally retire on reaching the age determined by the Board Accordingly during the Year the Company did not comply with these provisions of from time to time as the retirement age for executive directors.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years from The Combined Code provides code provision A.
4.1 that the majority of the the Annual General Meeting following their joining the Board, and, subject to members of the Nomination Committee should be independent non-executive performance, there is an expectation of reappointment for a further period of directors.
During the Year the Committee comprised the Acting Chairman, three years.
Exceptionally a non-executive director may be invited to serve for a the Executive Deputy Chairman and two non-executive directors.
Accordingly further and final three year term.
Non-executive directors fees are determined during the Year the Company did not comply with this provision of the Combined by the Board in the absence of the non-executive directors other than the Code.
Since the end of the Year Mike Ashley has ceased to be a member of the Chairman.
Nomination Committee, and the structure of this Committee is now compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code.
All directors appointed by the Board are appointed after consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination Committee, and those so appointed The Company has in the past used recruitment consultants to search for a must stand for reappointment at the following Annual General Meeting.
Every Chairman and for additional independent non-executive directors and the director must retire at least once every three years, and in addition at least Nomination Committee has approved job descriptions for those roles, which one third of the continuing members of the Board must retire by rotation each for the Chairman includes an assessment of the time commitment expected, year.
Retiring directors may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to do always recognising the need for availability in the event of major activity.
so and if so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman will, The Board currently believes, however, that the Board and its committees when proposing the reappointment of a director, confirm that following formal as currently constituted are working well, and that in a period of challenging performance evaluation, the directors performance continues to be effective economic conditions it would be difficult to recruit an appropriate person to be and he or she continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
either the Chairman or an independent non executive director of the Company.
This year Simon Bentley and Bob Mellors are retiring by rotation and are Accordingly, while the Board intends when practicable to appoint a further seeking reappointment.
independent non-executive director to the Board and to both of the Remuneration and Audit committees, which would bring the Company into The Board has adopted a formal process for the performance evaluation of the compliance with all the provisions of the Combined Code, no steps are currently Board, its committees and individual directors.
Every year each director has an being taken to achieve that.
The Nomination Committee and the Board will, opportunity to express his or her views on the organisation and operation of the however, keep the position under review.
Board and its committees, their effectiveness and contribution to the business, and on any other matter they consider relevant.
These views are expressed in response to a questionnaire prepared and circulated by the Secretary, who the Board holds the comments of individual directors in confidence.
The results of these During the Year the Board comprised a nonexecutive Acting Chairman, three questionnaires are consolidated and reported to the Chairman and, in so far as executive directors, and two non-executive directors.
The names and short they relate to the Chairman, to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, biographies of the Acting Chairman and other directors are set out on page 13. and, in so far as they relate to the Board as a whole or to any of its committees to the Board as a whole.
Given the current small size of the Board, the Board The non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
does not consider the use of independent consultants appropriate or useful.
The Acting Chairman, Simon Bentley was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
The Board considers that an independent director In addition the Chairman will meet with individual directors privately at least is one who is independent in character and judgment, and where there are once in every year, to review the contribution of that director to the Board and no circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his or her his or her development needs.
The Chairman will meet with the non-executive judgement.
Relationships or circumstances that could affect judgement include directors as a group and in the absence of any executive directors at least twice having been an employee of the Company or of any Group company during the a year, and as part of the Board Evaluation Programme the non-executive past five years, having had a material business relationship or having been a directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, will review partner, shareholder, director or senior employee of a body with a material the performance of the Chairman, having taken account of the views of the business relationship with the Company or any Group company in the past three executive directors.
years, receiving remuneration from the Company other than directors fees, participating in any share option or bonus schemes or in a Company pension The Board and the Nomination Committee will consider the output from scheme, having had close family ties with any of the Companys advisors, the evaluation programme in their evaluation of the skills, knowledge and directors or senior employees, having cross directorships or significant links experience of the Board, and in formulating development plans.
with any other director, representing a significant shareholder, or serving on the Board for more than nine years.
18 Corporate Governance Report The Board provides corporate governance training for those directors appointed The Board believes that the appointment of executive directors to be nonto the Board for whom it is their first appointment to a listed company board, executive directors of other listed companies benefits the Group, through the and provides a tailored induction programme for all directors on appointment.
In additional experience and knowledge gained by such an appointment, and addition the Board is made aware of material changes to laws and regulations accordingly, executive directors are permitted to accept one such appointment affecting the Groups business from time to time.
All directors have access to where no conflict of interest arises, and to retain the fees received.
Currently the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and each director and each none of the executive directors holds such an appointment.
board committee may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, subject to prior notification to the other non-executive directors and All non-executive directors disclose to the Board prior to appointment their the Company Secretary.
The Company maintains appropriate directors and significant other commitments and they are required to notify and have notified officers insurance.
any changes to or additional commitments from time to time.
Simon Bentley, the Acting Chairman, is deputy Chairman of the solicitors Mishcon fide Reya, The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Executive Deputy a senior trustee of the Leadership Trust, Chairman of the hair product brand Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Umberto Giannini and the hotelier Maypole Group plc.
He is also a director of Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, for ensuring Powerleague.
The Board is satisfied that Simon Bentley meets his obligations its effectiveness, and for ensuring that all directors are able to play a full part to the Company.
All non-executive directors are available to meet with major in the activities of the Company.
He ensures effective communication with investors.
shareholders, and that the Board has an understanding of the views of major investors.
The Chairman is available to provide advice and support to members The Company Secretary is an employee of the Company and is the secretary of the executive team.
The Executive Deputy Chairman is an ambassador for of all Board committees, and fulfils the responsibilities required of him by the the Company, and takes the lead in the strategic development of the Company, Combined Code.
formulating the vision and strategy in conjunction with the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the management team, the running of the Groups business, for the delivery of the strategy approved by the Board, and Board Committees for implementing specific decisions made by the Board.
No one individual has There are three principal Board Committees, all of which have written terms of unfettered power of decision.
Summaries of the terms of reference and details of the membership of committees are set out below.
Copies of the terms of reference are available The Board currently plans to meet on a pre-planned basis six times during each from the Company Secretary and on the Companys website.
Only members of year, including a strategy meeting, and meets on other occasions as required.
each Committee are entitled to attend the meetings of committees, although During the Year the Board met on nine occasions.
each Committee may invite other directors, managers and advisors to attend and have done so.
Membership of Board Committees will be regularly reviewed.
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company, and has a Given the current size of the Board, and the terms of reference, all programme to enable it to discharge its responsibility of providing effective and non-executive directors are members of every Board committee.
It is, however, entrepreneurial leadership to the Company within a framework of prudent and the Boards intention that, when the number of independent non-executive effective controls.
An agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate directors appointed to the Board permits, the chairman of the Remuneration documentation is provided to directors in advance of them.
For regular meetings Committee will not serve on the Audit Committee, and vice versa.
The Board is the agenda will include reports from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance satisfied that currently no one director exercises a disproportionate influence.
Director, reports on the performance of the business and current trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from committees of the Board and Attendance at meetings of committees is set out on the opposite page.
specific proposals where the approval of the Board is sought.
Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where appropriate, and the Board will consider at least annually the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the meetings audit Committee of committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, unless Directors who served on the Committee during the Year were: a conflict of interest arises, to enable all directors to have oversight of those matters delegated to committees, and copies of analysts reports and brokers Simon Bentley Chairman notes are provided to directors.
Malcolm Dalgleish Dave Singleton Attendance by directors at Board and Board committee meetings during the Year and the total number of meetings that they could have attended are set The Chairman of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant, and has recent and out in the table below.
All directors attended all meetings of the Board and of relevant financial experience.
committees of the Board of which they were members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The Committee met on three occasions during the Year.
The Committees programme is pre-planned to ensure that each aspect of its Audit Remuneration Nomination responsibilities is discharged as part of an annual cycle during the Companys Board Committee Committee Committee financial year.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to Mike Ashley 9 9 - - 1 1 internal and external audits and controls.
Simon Bentley 9 9 3 3 4 4 1 1 Monitoring the financial reporting process and the integrity and clarity of Malcolm Dalgleish 7 9 2 3 3 4 0 1 the Groups financial statements, including making recommendations on judgments they contain and the financial reporting process.
Dave Forsey 9 9 - - - Bob Mellors 9 9 - - - Agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual audit plan and monitoring the same.
Dave Singleton 9 9 3 3 4 4 1 1 Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditors and relationships with them and in particular agreeing and monitoring the The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by it.
Matters extent of the non audit work that may be undertaken by external auditors.
so reserved include the approval of the strategic plan and long-term objectives of the Group, the annual budget and the allocation of resources to achieve Advising on the appointment, reappointment and removal of external that budget, decisions relating to unbudgeted expenditure over certain limits, auditors.
significant acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures, other material contracts, changes to the corporate structure of the Group, the appointment and removal Reviewing accounting and financial reporting policies, terms of of the Company Secretary, approval of accounting policies and practices engagement and remuneration of the external auditors, and any changes and approval of the annual report.
The Board delegates management of the thereto, and the method of accounting for unusual transactions.
businesses of the Group to the executive management, and delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management policies and systems in place within the Group and ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place under which employees can raise concerns about possible financial or other impropriety which are then appropriately investigated.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 19 Corporate GovernanCe report Continued During the Year the Committee considered the matters that fell within its area During the Year the Committee reviewed directors and senior managers of responsibility above, and in particular the arrangements for monitoring the remuneration arrangements, and considered bonus schemes, and in particular effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered the current economic the proposed Bonus Share Scheme, approval of which will be sought at climate and its likely impact on the Group: the Annual General Meeting of the Company in September.
The Committee considered directors salaries and determined not to increase them.
The The Audit Committee will normally meet not less than three times a year.
Committee decided whether any payments were due to executive directors under the 2007-08 Annual Bonus Scheme, and decided not to operate an Annual The external auditors attend meetings of the Committee, other than when Bonus Scheme for executive directors for 2009-10 if the proposed Bonus Share their appointment is being reviewed.
The Group Finance Director also attends Scheme was approved and implemented.
The Committee also reviewed the as appropriate.
The Committee will meet with the auditors in the absence of Performance Share Plan and its performance measures and made awards executive management at least twice a year.
thereunder to executive directors and to certain senior managers.
The Audit Committee considers annually the reappointment of the auditors and A report on the remuneration of directors appears on pages 22 to 26.
The their remuneration, and makes recommendations to the Board, and the auditors Combined Code recommends that the Remuneration Committee is made up of are reappointed each year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee will at least three non-executive directors, independent in character and judgement consider the level of service provided by the auditors and their independence and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be annually.
likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
The Committee currently consists of only two independent non-executive directors and the Acting Chairman.
The Committee has approved a policy on the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work, in order to ensure that the objectivity of the The Company intends to appoint when appropriate additional independent auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements is not or may not be seen non-executive directors to the Board following which a further independent nonto be impaired, and has established a process to monitor compliance with that executive director will be appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee, policy.
and the Committees structure will then comply with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
The policy identified three categories of potential work.
Firstly, those tasks that the auditors may not provide, as to do so would represent a real threat to independence.
That work includes the preparation of accounting entries or nomination Committee financial statements, IT systems design and implementation, management of Members of the Nomination Committee during the Year were: projects and tax planning where the outcome would have a material impact on the financial statements or where the outcome is dependent upon accounting Simon Bentley Chairman treatment.
Mike Ashley Malcolm Dalgleish Secondly, types of work that the auditors may undertake with the consent of Dave Singleton the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Included in this category are certain corporate finance services, acquisition due diligence, management consultancy The Committee met on one occasion during the Year.
and secondment of staff other than for the preparation of accounting entries or financial statements.
The main responsibilities of the Board Nomination Committee are to: Thirdly, there are services that the auditors may provide as the work is clearly Review the Boards structure.
audit related and there is no potential threat to independence, including regulatory reporting and acting as reporting accountants.
The Company is Review the composition and make up of the Board, including evaluating satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements of the Auditing Practices the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the members of the Board.
Every engagement of the auditors for non-audit work is to be reported to the Give consideration to succession planning for directors.
next meeting of the Committee.
Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any Board The Combined Code recommends that the Audit Committee is made up of at appointment including that of Chairman.
least three non-executive directors, independent in character and judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be Make recommendations to the Board concerning the standing for likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
The Audit Committee currently reappointment of directors.
consists of only two independent non-executive directors and the Acting Chairman, but the Company intends when appropriate to appoint additional Identify potential candidates to be appointed as directors, and make independent non-executive directors to the Board, following which a further recommendations to the Board as the need may arise.
independent non-executive director will also be appointed a member of the Audit Committee, and the Committees structure will then comply with the The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman recommendation set out in the Combined Code.
and the Chief Executive, who will not be present at meetings when such matters are being discussed.
remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee will meet at least once a year and will also meet Directors who served on the Committee during the Year were: when appropriate.
Dave Singleton Chairman During the Year the Committee considered the desirability of appointing a Simon Bentley Chairman and a further non-executive director or directors, and also considered Malcolm Dalgleish the standing for reappointment of directors retiring by rotation.
The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to: Dave Forsey, as Chief Executive, will normally attend meetings of the Nomination Committee, save where the Nomination Committee is dealing with Determine the Companys policy on executive remuneration, including the matters relating to him or with the appointment of his successor.
design of bonus schemes, and targets and payments made thereunder.
The Combined Code recommends that a majority of the Nomination Committee Determine the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and each of the be non-executive directors, independent in character and judgement and free executive directors.
from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
Monitor the remuneration of senior management and make recommendations in respect of thereof.
The Committee currently consists of the Acting Chairman, and two independent non-executive directors and accordingly the Committees structure now Agree any compensation for loss of office of any executive director.
complies with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
The Committee met on four occasions during the Year.
20 Corporate Governance Report share dealinG Code The Company has a code of securities dealings in relation to its shares and other securities which is based on, and is at least as rigorous as, the Model Code as published in the Listing Rules.
The code applies to the directors and to other appropriate employees of the Group.
internal Controls and risk manaGement The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
Such a system can, however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Members of the Board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and operations of individual businesses within the Group.
This includes the review and approval of business strategies and plans, the setting of key business performance targets and the analysis of risk.
The executive management responsible for each business is accountable for the conduct and performance of their business within agreed strategies.
Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets against which performance is monitored.
Monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
The Group has a formal whistle blowing policy for employees who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Companys or Groups activities on a confidential basis.
Executive management is responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business and for the development of a disaster mitigation and recovery programme.
The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong operational internal audit services in the retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Brands division to monitor and control licensees.
The Board Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
The auditors attend all meetings of the Audit Committee, save for those parts of any meeting when the Committee reviews the performance of the auditors and when the Committee is having separate discussions with the Group Finance Director.
With the exception of Heatons, the Groups only material associate, the Groups system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and management, and the Board believes that the Group has maintained throughout the Year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts an effective embedded system of internal control and has complied with the Turnbull guidance.
soCial, environmental and ethiCal matters The Group has for many years, recognised the benefits that accrue from responsible employment, environmental and community policies.
Details of the Groups activities in this area are set out in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 30.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 21
