Scottish and Southern Energy 55 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Dear Shareholder The Framework of Corporate Governance The Board is accountable to the I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance Report for the year 2008 09. companys shareholders for the good conduct of the companys affairs.
The Boards principal objective is to ensure that the Group delivers its strategy whilst The following report sets out how the ensuring that this is carried out within a sound framework of corporate governance.
company applies the principles of the The Board believes that strong corporate governance enhances shareholder value and 2006 Combined Code on Corporate this report sets out how the governance framework is implemented across the Group.
Sir Kevin Smith retired at the 2008 Annual General Meeting after four years of service Throughout the year the company on the Board.
He was an outstanding Director and made a valuable contribution to monitors developments in corporate the success of the company.
I am pleased that we have been able to appoint Thomas governance best practice.
Due regard Andersen as a non-Executive Director from 1 January 2009.
Thomas has brought is also given to the policy guidelines a wealth of experience and knowledge to the Board having held a number of senior of organisations representing major appointments in the US, the UK and Denmark.
His appointment complements very institutional investors.
In addition, internal well the contributions of the other Directors.
Following this appointment, the Board procedures are regularly reviewed and now comprises four Executive Directors and five independent non-Executive Directors, updated by the Board and the various in addition to myself as Chairman.
During the year Board meeting arrangements were changed.
We now have Board Combined Code Compliance meetings every two months or as business dictates.
Usually these are full-day meetings The Board continues to be committed preceded by dinner with senior managers and other stakeholders which has given the to ensuring that the highest standards Board more time to engage in detailed discussions on business and strategic matters.
of corporate governance are maintained.
We also have Board teleconference calls to update the Board on current business The Board confirms that the company performance in those months when the Board is not holding a full meeting.
The year has, throughout the period under review, being reported on reflects a transition to these new arrangements which I believe are complied with all provisions set out in working well and make better use of the Directors time.
The Board continued to visit new and existing operational sites.
We held our meeting in ORGANISATION AND STRUCTURE June 2008 at Ferrybridge Power Station and the Directors were updated on the flue gas desulphurisation project and given a tour of the site.
The Board meeting in March 2009 Role of the Board was also held on-site at the new operations centre near Havant on the south coast of The Board is collectively responsible for England.
Our non-Executive Directors are specifically expected to devote some individual creating and sustaining shareholder value time to operational visits and to meet managers and I am pleased that they were able through the overall management of the to do so.
During the year, the Directors also met a wide range of stakeholders as well Group whilst ensuring that a sound as investors and analysts.
system of internal control and risk management is in place.
We have completed our Board and Committee performance evaluation for the year.
The evaluation process highlighted some areas where improvements could be made The Directors are fully briefed in advance but overall the conclusion was that the Board continues to function well.
of Board meetings on all matters to be discussed, including regular business and Lord Smith of Kelvin financial reports, and they also receive Chairman copies of analysts and brokers reports 20 May 2009 on the company.
The Board receives detailed financial and operational information to allow it to monitor effectively the performance of the key areas of the business.
It also receives regular updates on the progress and performance of investments and other major decisions made by it, together with business reports and presentations from senior management.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, which are available on the companys website www.
To reflect certain changes to company law made by the Companies Act 2006, shareholders voted to adopt new Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Further amendments GOVERNANCE Scottish and Southern Energy 56 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued to the Articles of Association are likely Balance of the Board Senior Independent Director to be required at the AGM in 2010, to The Board consists of four Executive Susan Rice is the Senior Independent reflect the full implementation of the Directors and five independent nonDirector.
She is available to meet with Companies Act 2006.
Executive Directors, in addition to the major shareholders on request and she Chairman, Lord Smith of Kelvin.
This gives attended the city presentation of the Board Decisions the Board a good balance of independence Groups half-year results.
In November A formal schedule of matters is specifically and experience, ensuring that no one 2008 she carried out the Chairmans reserved to the Board for its decision, individual or group of individuals has performance evaluation, together with including: undue influence over the Boards the other non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the k Group strategy: Board and its Committees is regularly Director Appointments k annual budget: reviewed to ensure that this balance and In accordance with the Code and the k approval of interim and final financial mix of skills and experience is maintained.
companys Articles of Association, statements: all Directors are required to stand k interim dividend payments and Non-Executive Directors for re-appointment by shareholders recommendation of final dividends: The responsibilities of the non-Executive at the first AGM following appointment k significant changes in accounting Directors include to: to the Board.
Thomas Andersen, who policy and practice: was appointed as an independent nonk the Groups corporate governance k scrutinise, measure and review the Executive Director during the year, and system of internal control: performance of management: will stand for re-appointment at the k Board and Committee membership: k assist in the development of strategy: forthcoming AGM.
In addition, all k major acquisitions, mergers, disposals k review the financial information: Directors are required to retire by and capital expenditure: k ensure systems of internal control rotation and stand for re-appointment k changes in the capital and structure and risk management are appropriate at least every three years.
Susan Rice of the Group: and and effective: and Gregor Alexander will stand for k approval of key policies such as safety, k manage the relationship with the re-appointment at this years AGM.
The health and the environment.
external Auditor: and Board evaluation process confirmed that k review the remuneration of and the performance of the Directors standing The schedule is reviewed regularly by the succession planning for the Board.
for re-appointment continued to be Board and is published on the companys effective and that they continue to website www.
Independence and Experience demonstrate commitment in their of non-Executive Directors respective roles.
The Code states that Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has assessed the independence any length of service beyond six years The roles of the Chairman and the of the non-Executive Directors against for a non-Executive Director should be Chief Executive are separate and the criteria set out in the Code and has subject to particularly rigorous review clearly defined.
concluded that they are all independent and should take into account the need in character and judgement.
In line with for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the the recommendations of the Code, at least It is confirmed that Susan Rice as Senior operation, leadership and governance half the Board, excluding the Chairman, Independent Director continues to have of the Board, ensuring that it operates are independent non-Executive Directors.
the appropriate experience, knowledge effectively whilst providing appropriate Lord Smith of Kelvin was also independent and independence to remain in this role.
Biographical details for all the Directors are set out on pages 64 and 65.
The Chairman regularly meets with The non-Executive Directors are chosen for senior managers at locations throughout their wide range of skills and experience.
Attendance at Board and the Group.
Although not a member, he Their continuing independence of Board Committee Meetings regularly attends the Audit Committee judgement is confirmed in the annual Non-attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
External engagements Board performance evaluation process.
meetings is rare, although may arise due included meetings with analysts and Non-Executive Directors serve on the to unforeseen circumstances or prior other representatives of institutional Board Committees of Audit, Nomination commitments which could not be investors, and he participated in both the and Remuneration, and one serves on rearranged.
Where a Director is unable interim and annual results presentations.
the Health, Safety and Environmental to attend a meeting he or she provides Biographical information on the Chairman Advisory Committee.
Further details comments and feedback to either the is set out on page 64. on the membership and operation of Chairman, Committee Chairman or these Committees are set out on pages Company Secretary, who ensure that The Chief Executive is responsible for 58 to 61. the comments received are raised at the day-to-day management of Group the meeting.
business and the implementation of The Chairman and non-Executive strategy and policy as agreed by the Board.
Directors met during the year without The attendance of Directors at Board In discharging his responsibilities, the the Executive Directors being present.
meetings and at meetings of the five Chief Executive is advised and assisted principal Board Committees during by senior management and a number of All of the non-Executive Directors 2008 09 is set out in Table A opposite.
specific management committees from have been appointed for fixed terms throughout the Groups businesses.
Appointment letters are The Board is currently scheduled to hold Biographical information on the Chief available on the companys website six meetings in 2009 10, together with Executive is set out on page 64. www.
Scottish and Southern Energy 57 Annual Report 2009 Table A Attendance at Meetings Health, Safety and Environmental Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk and Trading Advisory Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 8 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 3 meetings 12 meetings 3 meetings Lord Smith of Kelvin 8 2 3 Gregor Alexander 8 12 Thomas Andersen 3 1 1 Nick Baldwin 7 3 2 2 Richard Gillingwater 8 3 2 3 Colin Hood 8 3 Ian Marchant 8 2 9 Ren Mdori 8 3 2 Alistair Phillips-Davies 8 12 Susan Rice 8 2 3 Sir Kevin Smith 3 1 1 Thomas Andersen was appointed as a non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2009 and he attended all meetings from that date.
Nick Baldwin was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee on 24 July 2008.
Richard Gillingwater was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 24 July 2008.
Sir Kevin Smith retired as a non-Executive Director on 24 July 2008 and attended all relevant meetings up to his retirement.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS power station, and one of the Groups members interests and appointments main customer service centres.
was carried out by the Company Secretary.
Information and Professional Development The Board considered and authorised each The Directors receive accurate, timely The Board believes that given the Directors reported actual and potential and clear information, with all Committee experience and skills of the Directors and conflicts of interest at the September Board and Board papers being issued for review the briefings referred to above, any further meeting.
In accordance with the companys in advance of meetings.
On joining the personal training needs can be left to the Articles of Association and relevant Board, Directors receive a comprehensive discretion of the individual.
The company legislation, each Director abstained from induction course tailored to their individual makes the necessary resources available approval of their own position.
The Board requirements which includes meetings should any Director request training.
will continue to monitor and review potential with the Executive Directors and senior conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The management, visits to key sites, and There is an agreed procedure for Directors Nomination Committee will keep under meetings with key stakeholders.
It also to be able to take independent professional review any conflict or potential conflict of covers a review of the Groups governance, advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
interest situations authorised by the Board policies, structure and business including The prior approval of the Chairman is and determine whether it is appropriate details of the risks and operational issues required where such advice is likely to for such matter to remain so authorised.
Any advice obtained shall be made available to the other members Performance Evaluation During the year, the Board and Board of the Board, if the Board so requests.
The Board, the Board Committees and the Committees were kept up-to-date with individual Directors undergo an annual developments.
This generally follows a All Directors have access to the advice process of performance evaluation.
forward programme where briefings are and services of the Company Secretary.
Senior management also participates given by Executive Directors and senior in a performance evaluation programme.
management on developments in their The company continues to operate business area.
Additional specialist advanced performance coaching for During the year the Chairman conducted briefings and presentations were given some of the Executive Directors and for the performance evaluation of the Board.
on areas such as corporate governance other members of senior management Each Director completed a detailed and company law changes, regulation, which is designed to develop and enhance questionnaire.
The questionnaires covered public affairs, health and safety, and individual and Group performance.
the Board and Committee processes, their the companys major business activities.
effectiveness and where improvements Separate more informal meetings were Executive Directors Other Directorships could be made.
Reports were produced also held with senior management.
Executive Directors may be invited to on the key findings and the Chairman of become non-Executive Directors of other the Board and the Committee Chairmen The non-Executive Directors have companies.
Approval may be given to accept reported these findings to the Board individual meetings, briefings and site such invitations recognising the benefit to be meeting in January 2009 for discussion.
The briefings focus on subjects derived to the individual and to the company.
Directors also participated in detailed where they have specific knowledge Any such appointments are included in the reviews of individual performance which or expertise, such as energy trading, biographical information set out on page 64. were carried out in one-to-one meetings operational matters and customer service.
The process for The site visits by individual non-Executive Conflicts of Interest evaluating the Chairman was managed Directors during the year included a major During the year a full analysis of the Board by the Senior Independent Director GOVERNANCE Scottish and Southern Energy 58 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued which involved a separate meeting Governance Structure Board of Directors of the non-Executive Directors chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The review concluded that the Board and Audit Health, Safety Nomination Remuneration Risk and its Committees were operating effectively, Committee and Environmental Committee Committee Trading continued to set clear objectives and Advisory Committee Committee focussed on the correct areas.
Each of the Directors continued to make an effective contribution to the work of the Board and its Committees, was well informed and operations and internal control and Meetings and Activities in 2008 09 demonstrated full commitment to his risk management functions: and The Audit Committee had three meetings or her duties.
Some further areas were k review the objectivity and during the year.
identified including a renewed focus on the independence of the external Auditors future resource requirements of the Group taking into consideration the scope of During the year the Audit Committee as it continues to grow.
These will be taken their work and fees paid for both audit undertook the following in order to forward in 2009.
The new Board meeting and non-audit services.
discharge its responsibilities: arrangements were considered to be a significant improvement.
The Committee has unrestricted access Financial Statements to company documents and information k reviewed the financial statements in The Board was satisfied that the as well as to employees of the company the 2008 report and accounts and the performance evaluation process was a and the external Auditors.
As part of this review the worthwhile exercise and the Directors had Committee Chairman reports the Committee received from the Auditor participated in an open and frank basis.
outcome of meetings to the Board.
KPMG Audit Plc a report on their audit of the annual report and accounts and BOARD COMMITTEES Membership their review of the interim results: and The members of the Audit Committee who k reviewed the annual and interim The Board has delegated authority to five held office during the year and at the date results announcements.
principal Committees to carry out certain of this report are set out in Table B below.
tasks as defined in each Committees Control Environment respective Terms of Reference.
The Terms The Company Secretary is Secretary and Risk Management of Reference for all Committees are set to the Audit Committee.
k received six-monthly reviews by by the Board and are reviewed regularly.
Group Internal Audit setting out the The Terms of Reference are available All members of the Committee are audit programme, its progress against for inspection on the companys website independent non-Executive Directors.
the programme, the results of key www.
The audits and other significant findings, Governance Structure is detailed above In terms of the Code, at least one member the adequacy of managements and each Committee plays a vital role in of the Committee must have recent and response and the timeliness of ensuring that high standards of corporate relevant financial experience and all resolution of actions: governance are maintained throughout Committee members are expected to k reviewed and agreed the Group the Group.
Membership is determined by be financially aware.
Ren Mdori has Internal Audit Plan for the year ending the Board, on the recommendation of the considerable experience through his 31 March 2009: Nomination Committee and in consultation position as Finance Director of a major k received six-monthly reports from with each Committee Chairman.
energy trading and treasury setting out strategy, market developments, AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee normally requests the any significant risks and the controls Finance Director, Energy Supply Director, in place to mitigate these risks: Role Head of Group Internal Audit and the k received six-monthly reviews from The Audit Committee assists the Board in external Auditors to attend its meetings.
Group Internal Audit on the Internal the effective discharge of its responsibilities Senior management including the Group Control Risk Assessment setting out for financial reporting and internal control, Treasurer, Group Financial Controller, the Group Risk Map and Residual together with the procedures for the Director of Energy Portfolio Management, Risk Map: and identification, assessment and reporting Director of Corporate Affairs and Head k reviewed Post-Investment Appraisal of risks.
It acts independently of the of Portfolio Support may also attend to Reports and Independent Project Executive Directors.
In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee is authorised by the Table B Members of the Audit Committee Board to: Date of Committee Name Role appointment resignation k ensure that the companys financial Ren Mdori Committee Chairman and reports represent an accurate, clear Non-Executive Director Appointed June 2003 and balanced assessment of the Thomas Andersen Non-Executive Director Appointed January 2009 companys position and prospects: Nick Baldwin Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 k ensure the efficiency and monitor Richard Gillingwater Non-Executive Director Appointed May 2007 the effectiveness of the companys Scottish and Southern Energy 59 Annual Report 2009 External Audit Process k formulation of remuneration policy NOMINATION COMMITTEE k reviewed the effectiveness of the and approval of all aspects of the overall audit process for 2008 09, Executive Directors remuneration, Role meeting with the Auditors and including bonuses and the granting The Nomination Committee reviews the management separately to identify of incentives under the companys structure, composition and balance of any areas of concern in the preparation schemes: the Board and its Committees and leads of the financial statements: k ensuring that an appropriate the Board appointment process before k reviewed and agreed the terms of proportion of pay is linked to corporate making recommendations to the Board.
appointment, areas of responsibility, and individual performance: and Before an appointment is made the associated duties and scope of the k review and approval of the Committee evaluates the skills, audit as set out in the engagement Chairmans fees.
knowledge and experience of the Board letter for the forthcoming year: to ensure that any new appointment k reviewed and agreed the audit fees, Membership complements these qualities.
Candidates fees for non-recurring work and the The members of the Remuneration from a wide range of backgrounds are regulatory reporting fee: Committee who held office during the considered and the selection process will k reviewed key accounting and audit year and at the date of this report are generally involve interviews with a number issues: and set out in Table C below.
of candidates, using the services of a k reviewed recommendations made by professional search firm specialising the Auditors in its management letter The Company Secretary is Secretary in board level recruitment.
and the adequacy of managements to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also reviews succession The Committee normally requests planning and leadership needs in the Independence of Auditor the Director of People and the senior course of its work taking into account k reviewed the extent of non-audit services remuneration adviser to attend its meetings, the risks and opportunities facing the provided by the Auditors in accordance and occasionally external advisers.
company, and from this identifies the with the established policy where: skills and expertise required from the a competitive tender process is Meetings and Activities in 2008 09 Board and senior management team.
required where non-audit fees exceed a The Remuneration Committee had three threshold of 30,000 for general advice meetings during the year.
Membership and 75,000 for tax-related advice: The members of the Nomination the Committee must be satisfied Full details of Directors remuneration, Committee who held office during the that the work was best handled general policy and developments during year and at the date of this report are by the Auditors because of their the year are given in the Remuneration set out in Table D below.
knowledge of the Group: and Report set out on pages 66 to 75. the Committee must be satisfied that The Company Secretary is Secretary the objectivity and independence of the Evaluation to the Nomination Committee.
Auditors was not affected by the work The annual evaluation was conducted k reviewed changes in the Audit team: and by the Committee of its composition, Members do not take part in discussions k recommend to the Board that the role and responsibilities, operation and about their own appointment.
The Board Auditors be reappointed.
effectiveness, the conclusions of which Chairman would not chair the meeting were agreed and reported to the Board when it is dealing with the appointment The non-audit work awarded during the at its meeting in January 2009. of his successor.
In this case the year included: k taxation advice including general Table C Members of the Remuneration Committee consultancy, acquisitions, disposal Date of Committee Name Role appointment resignation and new markets: and k accounting due diligence.
Susan Rice Committee Chairman and Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 Full disclosure of the non-audit fees paid Nick Baldwin Non-Executive Director Appointed July 2008 during the year is made in note 4 to the Richard Gillingwater Non-Executive Director Appointed July 2007 Financial Statements.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Board Chairman Appointed November 2006 Sir Kevin Smith Non-Executive Director Retired July 2008 Evaluation The annual evaluation was conducted Table D Members of the Nomination Committee by the Committee of its composition, Date of Committee role and responsibilities, operation and Name Role appointment resignation effectiveness, the conclusions of which Lord Smith of Kelvin Committee and Board Chairman Appointed January 2005 were agreed and reported to the Board Thomas Andersen Non-Executive Director Appointed January 2009 at its meeting in January 2009.
Nick Baldwin Non-Executive Director Appointed July 2008 Richard Gillingwater Non-Executive Director Appointed July 2008 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Ren Mdori Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2006 Susan Rice Non-Executive Director Appointed November 2007 Role Sir Kevin Smith Non-Executive Director Retired July 2008 The principal responsibilities of the Ian Marchant Chief Executive Appointed October 2002 Remuneration Committee are: GOVERNANCE Scottish and Southern Energy 60 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued of reporting based on annual operating meeting would be chaired by a nonThomas Andersen, with Ian Marchant and capital expenditure budgets: Executive Director elected by the attending as appropriate.
The Company monthly reviews against actual results: remaining members.
Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
analysis of variances and evaluation of key performance indicators: Meetings and Activities in 2008 09 ACCOUNTABILITY, RISK MANAGEMENT k receives regular reports from the The Nomination Committee had two AND INTERNAL CONTROL Chief Executive, the Finance Director meetings during the year.
and the other Executive Directors: and The Board considers risk management k undertakes an annual evaluation Following the retirement of Sir Kevin and the system of internal control to be of the Board, its Committees and Smith at the 2008 AGM, the Committee fundamental to achieving the Groups individual Directors.
recommended the appointment of strategy.
Thomas Andersen as non-Executive The Audit Committee: Director.
This appointment was made on The system of internal control is the k assists the Board in the effective 1 January 2009.
The Terms of Reference Boards overall responsibility.
Reviewing discharge of the responsibilities of the Nomination Committee were the system and monitoring its effectiveness for financial reporting and internal updated in July 2008.
The Committee is is delegated to the Audit Committee and is control, acting independently of now responsible for reviewing conflicts of reviewed at least annually by the Board.
management: interest authorised by the Board.
During k ensures financial reports and formal the year, the Committee also reviewed The system of internal control is designed announcements represent an accurate, Board Committee membership and senior to manage rather than eliminate the risk clear and balanced assessment of the management succession planning.
of failure to achieve business objectives Groups position and prospects: and can provide only reasonable and not k reviews and ensures the effectiveness Evaluation absolute assurance against material of operational and internal controls, The annual evaluation was conducted misstatement and loss.
the reliability of the information and by the Committee of its composition, accounting systems, and the role and responsibilities, operation and The Board and the Audit Committee have implementation of established effectiveness, the conclusions of which reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system in accordance with the policies and procedures: were agreed and reported to the Board Code for the period from 1 April 2008 to k monitors and reviews the effectiveness at its meeting in January 2009. the date of approval of this Annual Report.
of the internal audit function through No significant failings or weaknesses have regular reports from the internal audit RISK AND TRADING COMMITTEE been identified.
However, had there been, department: the Board confirms that appropriate k reviews the significant risks identified The Risk and Trading Committee action would have been taken.
by each business unit as well as the comprises Alistair Phillips-Davies mitigating action against those risks: Chairman, Ian Marchant, Gregor Internal control is maintained through an k maintains a close relationship with Alexander and senior managers from organisation structure with clearly defined the external Auditors: and energy trading, electricity generation, responsibilities, authority levels and lines k reviews the arrangements by which finance and treasury.
It met 12 times of reporting.
The key elements of the employees can in confidence raise during the year to review and manage Groups internal control process are concerns about any possible the operational and financial risks and summarised below: improprieties in financial and exposures in energy trading, generation, other matters.
At each meeting, updates The Board: are provided on generation plant status, k approves the policies, procedures and The Executive Directors: market conditions, commodity exposures, framework for the maintenance of a k monitor operational and financial counterparty credit, trading limits and sound and effective system of internal performance of the Group: controls and treasury.
The Assistant control ensuring: k develop and implement Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the the provision of quality internal strategy, operational plans, policies, Risk and Trading Committee.
reporting by the Audit Committee procedures and budgets: and other Board Committees, k assess and control all Group risks: and HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL management and internal audit: k monitor competitive forces in each ADVISORY COMMITTEE the provision of quality reporting area of operation.
from the external Auditors: The Health, Safety and Environmental compliance with the Turnbull The Risk and Trading Committee: Advisory Committee met three times during Guidance on Internal Control: and k supports the Audit Committee and the year and was responsible for ensuring compliance with statutory and management in managing risks and that health, safety and environmental regulatory obligations: exposure in energy trading, generation policies had been implemented, setting k reviews the significant risks identified and treasury: targets and monitoring performance, and by each business unit as well as the k ensures that risk exposure is managed promoting awareness of these issues mitigating action against those risks appropriately: throughout the Group.
following review by the Audit k sets and approves risk management Committee: polices and trading strategies: The Committee members are Colin Hood k approves and regularly reviews and k ensures the effectiveness of Chairman, the Group Services Director, updates the Groups strategy and operations and internal controls: and the Director of Generation, the Group business development: k ensures risks inherent in business Safety, Health and Environmental k reviews performance through a system activities are understood and managed.
Manager and non-Executive Director, Scottish and Southern Energy 61 Annual Report 2009 In addition, over 250,000 shareholders The Health, Safety and Environmental shareholders, fund managers and analysts.
chose to receive written notification Advisory Committee: It believes that this is fundamental to of the electronic availability of future k together with the Audit Committee and ensuring that the Groups strategy is communications.
As recognition of the management, ensures that the health, understood and that any questions or reduced environmental impact that this safety and environmental policy issues are dealt with in a constructive way.
form of communication entails the statements are being adhered to: company, on behalf of shareholders, has k sets health, safety and environmental The Board receives reports on significant made a donation in excess of 90,000 to targets for the Group: and discussions with shareholders allowing the World Wildlife Funds International k monitors the performance of the Directors to form a view of the priorities and Forest Programme during the year.
concerns of the companys stakeholders.
Around 80,000 shareholders receive Brokers reports and analysts briefings a hard copy of the Annual Report.
The Internal Audit Department: are distributed to Directors.
k works with the business units to Other Stakeholders develop and improve risk management The Chief Executive and Finance Director The Board has a programme of events tools and processes in their business follow an ongoing programme of dialogue, to meet with a range of external operations: meetings, presentations and site visits.
stakeholders representing the public k ensures that business risks are The Investor Relations Manager has daysector, investment community, identified, managed and regularly to-day responsibility for communications environmental affairs, and consumer reviewed and that the key risks are with institutional shareholders.
The purpose of these events is reported to the Audit Committee to explain the Groups position on a range and Board: The Chairman attended the companys of business, policy and public interest k ensures that the business units carry interim and preliminary results issues and to engage in their views, out regular reviews on their internal presentations in May 2008 and November suggestions and any areas of concern.
controls relating to the key risks: 2008.
The Senior Independent Director also attended the interim results k monitors the effectiveness of the presentation in November 2008.
More generally, working with public policy Groups system of internal control makers is a vital area for the company, through the distribution of reports and, As part of the induction programme, given the high profile of energy and where appropriate, action plans to arrangements are made for analysts environment-related issues in the UK senior managers, Directors, the Audit to meet with newly appointed Directors.
The company engages Committee and external Auditors: with stakeholders in seven main ways: k monitors adherence to the Groups Private Shareholders key policies and principles: and The Board continues to take account k constructive engagement with Ofgem, k provides the Audit Committee and of any concerns of private shareholders which is responsible for promoting Board with objective assurance on and, on its behalf, the Company Secretary competition, wherever appropriate, the Groups control environment.
oversees communication with these and regulating the monopoly investors.
companies which run the gas GOING CONCERN and electricity networks: Annual General Meeting k ongoing dialogue with Ministers and After making enquiries, the Directors The companys AGM gives an opportunity officials in government, including the have a reasonable expectation that the for the Board to communicate with devolved administrations in the UK: company and the Group have adequate shareholders and provides an update k submissions to government and resources to continue in operational on the performance of the Group.
Parliamentary consultations and existence for the foreseeable future.
All Directors attend the AGM and inquiries: The Group expects to issue further debt in shareholders are invited to ask questions k meetings with, and briefings of, the capital markets during 2009 10 to meet and to meet with the Directors and senior elected members of all parties its funding requirements.
The Financial managers both before the meeting and in legislatures: Statements are therefore prepared on following the conclusion of the formal k engagement with local authority a going concern basis.
Further details part of the meeting.
elected members and officials: of the Groups liquidity position and going k active participation in relevant trade concern review are provided in note 29.
At the AGM, shareholders are advised associations and bodies: and of the proxy votes cast for each resolution k discussions and work with non COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS and a report is placed on the companys governmental organisations and AND MAJOR STAKEHOLDERS website following the meeting, in addition other relevant organisations such to being announced to the London Stock as charities.
An internal Disclosure Group ensures The companys objective is to ensure all appropriate communications are Company Communications that it is able to perform its core made to the London Stock Exchange and Following the introduction of the purpose of providing the energy people shareholders.
Copies of all announcements Companies Act 2006 shareholders now need in a reliable and sustainable way.
can be accessed from the companys have a choice on how to receive their Its principal public policy goal at present website www.
company communications such as is to ensure that there is in place a policy the Annual Report.
The company has and regulatory framework which is Institutional Shareholders over 370,000 shareholders, and now compatible with the delivery of the The Board encourages and seeks to build communicates with around 41,000 legally-binding EU targets for renewable up a mutual understanding of objectives of these shareholders electronically.
energy in 2020. between the Group and institutional GOVERNANCE
