Nomination Committee Corporate governance During the year, the Nomination Committee, considered the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, following the resignations of Susan continued Murray and Anna Catalano.
A recruitment consultant was appointed by the Committee and a detailed specification was prepared.
A shortlist of candidates was identified.
Following interviews with members of the Committee, the Committee recommended and the Board approved Under this policy, it has been agreed that due to their understanding of the appointment of Peter Johnson as a Non-Executive Director.
the Groups business and therefore ensuring cost efficiency, the external Internal control auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services, for which there is a pre-agreed limit for fees not including VAT which do not The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and this is monitored by the Audit require prior approval from the Audit Committee: Committee.
Key elements of this system include: Audit-related regulatory reporting including interim review, covenant reporting and other audit certificates 100,000 : Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board discussion: Further assurance including advice on accounting matters, nonregulatory reporting on internal controls or corporate governance, Clearly defined segregation of duties, organisational structures and appropriate delegation of authority adherence to which is due diligence work and environmental audits 100,000 : and kept under review : Tax compliance and tax advisory services 300,000.
Centralised treasury operations operating within defined limits: The Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve urgent engagements Review of the Groups accounting manuals and procedures: not covered by these categories, subsequently notifying the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
A breakdown of fees paid to the external Receipt of annual compliance statements from all statutory units within auditors during the year is set out on page 61. the Group, stating compliance with Group accounting manuals: and Board Committees membership and principal activities Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Chairman Richard Adam Peter Read Peter Read Peter Johnson Richard Adam Richard Adam Peter Read Gerald Corbett Gerald Corbett Members Peter Johnson Peter Johnson Garry Watts Group Chairman Group HR Director Chief Executive Chief Executive Company Secretary Group HR Director Attending by invitation Finance Director Company Secretary External auditor Head of Business Assurance Financial Controller Company Secretary Review of financial statements, Reviewing the size and Reviewing the remuneration including half-year and annual composition of the Board policy for the Executive Summary of the principal reports, interim management including the mix of skills Directors and the Executive activities of the Committees statements and considering and experience Committee during the year the comments of the external Consideration of succession Recommending the auditor thereon issues, including making introduction of a new Review of risk management and recommendations on the employee sharesave scheme internal control systems appointment of new Directors Further information on the work Review of the Groups internal Recommending the re-election of this committee can be found audit processes, including of Directors at the Annual in the Remuneration Report on approval of the annual internal General Meeting pages 42 to 49 audit plan Monitoring the provision of services by the external auditors and an annual appraisal of their effectiveness as auditors See policy on auditors independence beginning on page 37.
38 39 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 An effective Internal Audit function, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee and provides independent scrutiny of internal control systems and risk management procedures.
The Board has established ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks.
Risk management is embedded within the day-to-day activities of all executives.
Management of this area is the responsibility of the Executive Committee.
A significant element of this process is the maintenance of a Group Risk Matrix the Matrix detailed on page 32.
The Matrix contains both financial and non-financial risks, identified through regular top-down and bottom-up reviews.
The Board believes that the Company operates an effective embedded system of internal control and is confident that it complies with Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
Further information about the risk management processes is given on page 32.
Directors conflicts of interests Following the changes made to the Companys Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and the subsequent introduction of section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2008, which gave boards the statutory power to authorise conflicts of interest, formal conflict management procedures have been prepared and approved by the Board.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing annually any conflict authorisations granted by the Board and will make recommendations as to their continuation and any changes to any terms or conditions or other limitations which may have been applied.
Conflicts were authorised by the Board in compliance with the formal conflict management procedures.
Directors are required to inform the Chairman and the Company Secretary of any new potential, or actual conflict of interest.
The procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts operate effectively will be reported annually.
Combined Code compliance During the year the Company complied with the Code except in the following respect: A4.1 Until the appointment of Peter Johnson to the Nomination Committee on 25 February 2009, the Nomination Committee comprised the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the SID and a Non-Executive Director.
Whilst the Board considers the Group Chairman to be independent, membership of this Committee did not consist of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined by the Code.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Further details are included in the Financial review on pages 28 to 31.
Directors interests in shares Directors report The Directors interests in shares of the Company, including any changes since 31 March 2009, are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 47.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at the CII Insurance Hall, 20 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7HY beginning at 10.30 a. m. on 23 July 2009.
The Directors present their report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Employment policies Principal activities and Business Review The Groups employment policies reflect its commitment to equality and diversity in all aspects of employment.
Profit related bonus schemes were The principal activities of SSL International plc and its subsidiaries collectively the Group are the manufacture and distribution of in operation during the year for certain employees.
Further details of policies and initiatives are given in the Corporate Responsibility section healthcare products sold into consumer markets worldwide.
A review of the business, covering a comprehensive analysis on pages 24 to 27. of the activities of the business, the principal risks and uncertainties, Financial risk management the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the performance and position of the business and key performance indicators adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups profitability is included in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups Strategy and priorities section and the Financial review and all form part main financial risk areas are detailed in note 22 to the Group Financial of this report.
Information about environmental matters and the Groups employees and social and community issues can be found in the Creditor payment policy The Group does not follow any specific external code or standard on Corporate Responsibility section on pages 24 to 27. payments practice.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with Results and dividend agreed terms.
The Company itself had no trade creditors at 31 March The Group profit before tax was 76.5 million.
An interim dividend of 2009 or 31 March 2008.
2.6 pence per ordinary share was paid on 4 March 2009.
The Directors Charitable and political donations recommend a final dividend of 6.4 pence per ordinary share, which, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM The Group made charitable donations of 0.2million 2008: 0.2 million.
No political donations were made in this or the previous year.
on 23 July 2009, will be paid on 3 September 2009 to shareholders on the register on 7 August 2009.
This will make a total dividend of 9.0 pence Takeover Directive per share 2008: 7.6 pence.
Shareholders are able to take the dividend As at 31 March 2009, the issued share capital of the capital of the as cash or in shares, through the Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP.
Company comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares Shareholders who wish to elect for the DRIP for the forthcoming final of 10 pence each.
The authorised share capital of the Company is 25 dividend, but have not already done so should contact the Registrar, million, comprising 250 million ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Details Capita Registrars by 7 August 2009. of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are given in notes 18 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements and forms part of this Board of Directors The Group Board section on pages 34 and 35 gives the biographical details report.
Details of the share schemes in place are also provided in note 18.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every of the current Directors and the Company Secretary.
All of the current Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Peter Johnson holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2008.
Susan Murray and Anna Catalano resigned as Non-Executive Directors present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
on 24 July 2008 and 11 November 2008 respectively.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Ian Adamson, The notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in Gerald Corbett and Mark Moran will retire by rotation at the AGM.
Peter Johnson will stand for election at the AGM.
Following a recommendation relation to resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to by the Nomination Committee and in line with the results of the Board Evaluation, the process for which is described in the Corporate each resolution are announced and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Governance report, the Board recommends to shareholders that these Directors be reappointed at the AGM.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed The Company has the authority under its Memorandum and Articles of Association to agree individual contracts of indemnity with from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, its Directors and others also know as qualifying third party indemnity provisions QTPIP.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Company Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
entered into such contracts with each of the Directors.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
40 41 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009
