Audit Committee report 7.1 Composition of the Audit Committee 7.4 Policy on the Auditors Providing The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors: Non-Audit Services Garry Watts, Janet Morgan and Iain Duffin.
Garry Watts is the current Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a former audit partner, a former Audit related services - These are services that the auditors must undertake Finance Director and a serving Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company and or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such therefore is competent in both accounting and auditing.
The designated services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience is and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all therefore Garry Watts.
such services, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
7.2 Operation of the Audit Committee Tax consulting - It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has met a further and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors time in June 2009.
It receives reports from major business functions for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the including the Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced and managed by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
work being undertaken, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
It considers the scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual General consulting - For other consulting work, the Group will select an financial statements and the accounting and internal control systems in place advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general Groups website at:http: www.
com scg csr consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are corpgov committees audit.
pdf satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
7.3 Review of External Auditors The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making 7.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
There have been no instances of external auditors.
disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit Risk Assurance Function.
Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship Group and the auditors.
This review includes: between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: function on an annual basis.
the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and 7.6 Speaking Up Policy The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Speaking Up policy, which discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
The provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Committee ensures process on an annual basis.
that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular process on an annual basis.
interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
Any known instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit Whilst the Group has no set frequency for tendering the external audit, the Committee.
Groups external audit was last tendered in 2002 and resulted in a change of external auditors.
The audit engagement partner last changed in 2006.
The Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of external auditors.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of 0.7m 2008: 0.7m for  LLP and non-audit related fees of 0.1m 2008: 0.1m were discussed by the Audit Committee and Garry Watts considered appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of Chairman of the Audit Committee corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The Committee believes that 24 June 2009 the level and scope of non-audit services does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
