Nomination Committee report 8.1 Composition of the Nomination 8.3 Succession Planning Arrangements The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of Committee succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the The Nomination Committee comprises four non-executive directors that the longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with Board considers to be independent: Robert Speirs who acts as Chairman, clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head Ewan Brown, Janet Morgan and Sir George Mathewson.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in includes, by invitation, the other Non-Executive Directors, as necessary.
some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers 8.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting units, both in the UK and North America.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a description of the role and the required attributes for each particular The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on directors having Committee and the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers other significant commitments.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose to ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any Two non-executive directors, Iain Duffin and Janet Morgan, will reach nine significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee years service as directors of the Company in 2010.
It is intended that they will will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, each step down as directors once appropriate successors are in place.
The although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
Committee is also mindful of the need to plan the succession of the Chairman.
To maintain the balance of the Board, the Group is planning to appoint at least Potential new non-executive directors are chosen based on a shortlist two new non-executive directors in due course.
The Committee has compiled by the Nomination Committee taking account of known candidates commenced the recruitment process, which involves the use of external and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
For example, the selection recruitment consultants.
of Garry Watts, the most recent appointment to the Board, was made following a recruitment process that involved the use of external recruitment consultants and the consideration of a number of candidates.
Every director met with Garry Watts prior to his formal selection by the Board.
Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new Robert Speirs appointments, the letter of appointment sets out the expected time Chairman of the Nomination Committee commitment.
24 June 2009 No Director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees nom.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report Environmental Strategy Group, which comprises a number of managers and 9.1 Composition of the Health, Safety and is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of the Environmental Committee Groups environmental strategy.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an The Committee visits operational locations to observe health, safety and independent Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and comprises one other environmental management in practice.
Committee members attend independent Non-Executive Director, Iain Duffin, one other Non-Executive meetings of the Safety Committees of individual business units from time to Director, Ann Gloag and one Executive Director, Martin Griffiths, who joined time, such as the South West Trains Strategic Safety Group.
The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee across the Group as well as information on significant accidents involving the are available on the Groups website at http: www.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of scg csr corpgov committees health.
pdf each major operating division.
Training is provided to the Committee on health, safety and environmental matters.
9.2 Operation of the Health, Safety and The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors personal Environmental Committee non-financial objectives.
The Committee was established to consider health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly to the Board on these matters.
Details of the Groups health, safety and environmental policies and activities The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
are contained in sections 3.11.6 and 3.11.8 of this Annual Report.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Janet Morgan Committee from time to time providing the Committee with an opportunity Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee to question and challenge management on health, safety and environmental 24 June 2009 matters.
The Committee also receives reports from the Groups Stagecoach Group plc | page 31
