Corporate governance report 6.1 Introduction Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the practices within the Group in conformity with the Combined Code on Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
and executive managements running of the business?
This section of the report discusses Stagecoach Groups corporate governance arrangements and management structures.
It also includes the disclosures 6.4 Operation of the Board recommended by the Combined Code, and describes how the principles of The Board is generally scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional good corporate governance that are set out in the Combined Code have been meetings of the Board are held to consider matters arising between applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are provided from each of scheduled Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Health, Safety and the next scheduled meeting.
Environmental Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are 6.2 Compliance with the Combined Code properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the same as The Financial Reporting Council FRC issued a new edition of the the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards Combined Code in June 2008, which applies to accounting periods beginning strategic and policy decisions into actions.
The Group Chief Executive has dayon or after 29 June 2008 and is available on the FRCs website at http: www.
The new edition of the to-day responsibility for all business of the Group and carries out the agreed Code will therefore apply to the Groups financial year ending 30 April 2010. strategy and policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and Chief The Directors, however, believe that throughout the year ended 30 April Executives responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the Board.
2009 and up until the date of this report, the Group has complied with all of The Directors biographies appear on pages 20 and 21 of this Annual Report the recommendations contained in both the new edition and the previous and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective edition of the Combined Code.
The Group also complies with the corporate Board to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an governance requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules, independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience that ensures no one 6.3 Composition of the Board director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
The The Combined Code suggests that independent non-executive directors Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the should make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
The Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, Companys Board comprises nine directors.
Excluding the Chairman, the led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, meet without the Board considers that there are five independent non-executive directors.
Independent All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of Independent Non-Executive Other Chairman Director Director the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups Robert Speirs Chairman expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director duties as directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal Iain Duffin Non-Executive Director is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring Sir George Mathewson Non-Executive Director the Board procedures are complied with.
Janet Morgan Non-Executive Director All the Directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the Garry Watts Non-Executive Director Annual General Meeting following their appointment and all the Directors are Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director required to stand for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Brian Souter Chief Executive Martin Griffiths Finance Director Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, who are not considered by the Board to be independent, or are considered independent but have served on the Board for more than nine years, submit themselves for annual reEwan Brown, one of the five independent non-executive directors, has served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble Grossart, election.
which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises and Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently understands investor concerns over longer-serving non-executive directors such training or briefings as are considered necessary to keep abreast of but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as independent.
Ewan matters affecting their roles as directors.
Training can encompass Browns long association with the Group enables him to provide a robust and environmental, social and governance matters.
The Chairman endeavours to effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed ensure that all the Directors including any newly appointed directors attend knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
The Board believes the Annual General Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders to that Ewan Browns length of service enhances his effectiveness as a nonmeet the Directors.
executive director and that he remains independent in character and judgement.
In recognition of the factors suggested by the Combined Code The number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
The full Board for determining independence, Ewan Brown stands for annual re-election as typically meets once a year at an operational location and regular verbal a director.
In addition, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration communication is maintained by the Chairman between meetings to ensure Committee or the Audit Committee.
all directors are well informed on strategic and operational issues.
In October In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board 2008, the Board visited various parts of East Midlands Trains, taking up considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the opportunities to understand more about the Groups newest rail franchise following questions: and to meet with employees.
Some of the Directors also attended health and safety meetings of operating companies during the year.
Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive management?
The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or Board and its Committees?
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of papers distributed in advance of meetings.
the Group: The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve Board and its committees: the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where The composition of the Board and its committees.
any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the and constructive manner.
director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any concerns leading to his or her resignation.
6.7 Audit Committee 6.5 Operational management of the Group The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors.
The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Group It receives reports from major business functions including the Risk Assurance Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Executive Directors.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-toscope and results of the audit, the interim and annual financial statements face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
There are and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the three principal operating divisions UK Bus: headed by a Managing Director, Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence North America: headed by two Chief Operating Officers and UK Rail: headed and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee by a Chief Executive up until he left the Group on 28 February 2009 and since carries out the functions required by the Financial Services Authoritys then headed by the Executive Directors which each comprise a varying Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.1.
3R on corporate governance in number of autonomous business units, each headed by a chairman or relation to audit committees.
managing director who is responsible for the day-to-day performance of the The Audit Committee report is set out on page 30. business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is supported by his her own management teams.
6.8 Remuneration Committee A Rail Business Development Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other senior management, oversees the performance and development The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive of the Groups rail business, including bidding on new rail franchises.
It makes recommendations to the Board for ensuring that the Executive Directors and senior management remuneration is appropriate to A Chief Executive heads the Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group.
The attract, motivate and retain executive directors and senior managers of the Group has two representatives on the Board of Virgin Rail Group.
quality needed to run the Groups business successfully.
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee is detailed in the Directors 6.6 Performance evaluation remuneration report on pages 32 to 38.
The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the 6.9 Nomination Committee Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of The Nomination Committee comprises four non-executive directors one of the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the whom is the Chairman of the Company that the Board considers to be Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate The Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the suggesting new appointments.
performance of the Board and other Board members this involves the The Nomination Committee report is set out on page 31. completion of a questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is 6.10 Health, Safety and Environmental undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
Committee The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an independent The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its Non-Executive Director and comprises three other directors.
Each director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and considers health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and reports each committee of which he or she is a member.
regularly to the Board on these matters.
The assessment of effectiveness included consideration of: The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report is set out on The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: page 31.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 27 66817 StCchV13 p1to39:66817 StCchV13 p1to39 29 6 09 17:29 Page 28 Corporate governance report 6.11 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of committees and the Annual General Meeting by director during the year ended 30 April 2009: Health, Safety PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and Environmental Nomination Annual General IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Robert Speirs 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Brian Souter 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a n a n a 3 3 n a n a 1 1 Ewan Brown 5 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a Nil 1 1 1 Iain Duffin 663 3 4 423 n a n a 11 Ann Gloag 5 6 n a n a n a n a 1 3 n a n a 1 1 Sir George Mathewson 5 6 n a n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 1 1 Janet Morgan 6 6 2 3 n a n a 3 31 11 1 Garry Watts 6 6 3344 n a n a n a n a 1 1 cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and 6.12 Relations with shareholders manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its of the Groups position and prospects in communications with shareholders.
Although the system can provide only reasonable and not The Board considers communications with shareholders to be extremely absolute assurance of material misstatement or loss, the Groups system is important.
The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of major designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any risks or institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
During the appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated year, written responses are given to letters or e-mails received from by the Group.
shareholders and all shareholders can receive annual reports.
The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through businesses during the financial year ended 30 April 2009 and up to the date of briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of the Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment and such reviews are The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are resolve concerns.
Private and institutional shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control the Annual General Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate to ensure that all the Directors, including the chairmen of the Audit, responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety and Environmental processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to that unit.
question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of topics and further Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose a separate maintaining a separate risk profile.
resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
Resolutions are proposed annually in respect of the financial statements and The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to the Directors remuneration report.
At each Annual General Meeting, the and managed by Deloitte, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal for and against each resolution, and the number of votes withheld.
Details of controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based the proxy votes are also published on the Groups website at approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
com scg ir shareholder agm.
The Company and monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and its registrars have established procedures to ensure that votes cast are properly improving where possible the Groups risk management process in the context received and recorded.
of the Groups overall goals.
The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are 6.13 Risk management recommended by the external auditors.
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit function.
The the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, and Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin Rail Group, the Board considers that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance on but the Group maintains an overview of Virgin Rail Groups business risk internal control.
management process through representation on the board and audit The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages committee.
Stagecoach management representatives also meet regularly with 15 and 16. representatives of Virgin Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture follows The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of appropriate risk management procedures.
business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some page 28 | Stagecoach Group plc 66817 StCchV13 p1to39:66817 StCchV13 p1to39 29 6 09 17:29 Page 29 6.14 Internal control A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, function.
identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income management to explain.
statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each business unit to the management accounts received during the year and a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and obtains explanations for any material differences.
business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each business third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various levels of significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and safety, review by the Group Finance function.
treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and competition policy.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of the financial statements.
The review includes checking internal responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal control over the activities of joint ventures and associated undertakings accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
through Stagecoach representation on the boards of the entities together The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated with regular contact between Stagecoach management and the financial statements.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management of the relevant entities.
management and the auditors on significant judgements, changes in a performance management appraisal system covers the Groups senior accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other pertinent management and is based on agreed financial and other performance matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
The financial statements of all material business units are subject to audit.
significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank balances The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
are reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a The Group auditors review the audit workpapers for material joint ventures four-weekly basis.
and associates that are audited by a different firm of auditors.
regular reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The 6.16 Pension schemes Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, fund managers.
There are twelve trustees for the principal UK scheme of including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being whom five are employee representatives nominated by the members on a acquired or divested.
regional basis and one is a pensioner trustee.
The chairman of the trustees of each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures the principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as appropriate to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least a fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension annually by the management of each business confirming that they have Funds investment council.
He also sits independently as an elected reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the representative of all railway employers on the board of the Railways Pension year.
Scheme, of which he is the Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and trustees.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group which is subject to regular monitoring.
As might be expected, a number of minor internal control weaknesses were identified by these procedures and will be monitored and addressed.
None of The Groups external auditors,  LLP PwC, acted as the weaknesses have resulted in any material losses, contingencies or the actuary for The Yorkshire Traction Company Limited Pension Plan up until uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
This the scheme was merged into the principal UK Scheme on 6 April 2008.
PwC process is considered to be an integral part of the maintenance and do not act as actuaries or advisors to any of the other principal UK pension improvement of our risk management procedures.
A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This 6.15 Process for preparing consolidated financial Committee is chaired by a non-executive director and also comprises one executive director and other members of senior management.
The statements Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks on arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, internal financial controls periodically.
risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the Management regularly monitors and considers developments in related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group.
accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training is provided to key finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such developments.
