Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 The Board believes that high of such processes as balance This report outlines how the Company standards of corporate governance are sheet and cash management, has complied with the provisions intrinsic to the Companys culture and risk management, the design of the Combined Code on Corporate values.
In particular: Governance, revised by the Financial and operation of Executive Reporting Council in June 2008 the remuneration and succession Code.
The Board considers that it planning: They are central to its core values complied with all key provisions of and strategy, including integrity, They are the basis for the section 1 Companies of the Code professional excellence and accountability of Executive and the table below summarises how sustainability, as stated in this management to the Board and the Company has applied the main Annual Report: of the Board to Companys and supporting principles of the Code They underpin the objectivity shareholders.
Relevant area of Section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary including relevant Code provision A.
1 The Board The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and overall control of the Group.
Its primary role is to create value for shareholders, to agree and approve the Groups long-term strategic objectives and to develop robust corporate governance and risk management practices, whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
Certain powers are delegated to the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
Details of the roles and responsibilities of these Committees are set out under the relevant section below.
In addition, the Board has agreed Terms of Reference for its other formal committees in order to facilitate more efficient working practices and these include the Executive Committee, the Investment Committee, a Routine Business Committee and CSR Committee, to provide a clear framework of delegated and other authorities.
1.1 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and has identified key financial and operational areas that require regular reporting and which enable the performance of Executive management to be reviewed and monitored.
These are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which is reviewed and kept updated on a regular basis.
The schedule outlines all matters requiring specific consent of the Board, which include, inter-alia, the approval of Group strategy and operating plans, the annual budget, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements, major divestments and capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, the recommendation of dividends and the approval of treasury and risk management policies.
The schedule therefore facilitates structured delegation, subject to certain financial limits and provides a practical framework for executive management reporting, which seeks to achieve the objectives of maintaining effective financial and operational controls, while providing sufficient flexibility to manage the business.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on the Companys website, www.
1.2 The number of, and attendance at, Board and Committee meetings during the year, is shown in a table below.
Almost all meetings were fully attended and, outside these, there was frequent contact between Directors to discuss the Companys affairs and develop its business.
SThree plc 27 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued A.
1.3 The Chairman meets with the Non Executive Directors NEDs without the Executive Directors being present, either before or after each Board meeting and this is formally minuted, whilst the Senior Independent Non Executive Director SID holds annual discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the Executives, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
1.4 Each Director ensures that if he she has any concerns which cannot be resolved, about the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes, whilst upon resignation, Non-Executives are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board, should they have any concerns.
1.5 Appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
2.1 There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Chief Executive Executive Officer and they have been set out in writing and approved by the Board so that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
In particular, the Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda but has no involvement in the day-today business of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of the NEDs, including Board induction and evaluation, ensures constructive relations between Executive and NEDs and that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, to facilitate effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and overall responsibility to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group, under a job description which clearly sets out these responsibilities.
3 Board balance The Board comprises a balance of Executive and NEDs who bring a wide range of skills and and independence experience to its deliberations.
The NEDs fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability and have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-term interests of shareholders, but also to take proper account of the interests of customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The NEDs are all experienced and influential individuals and through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute significantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Directors have a wide range of experience of various industry sectors relevant to the Groups business and each member brings independent judgement to bear in the interests of the Company on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The Board has an appropriate and varied range of skills, vital to the success of the Group.
The composition of the Board and its various Committees is reviewed and evaluated so as to reflect the Boards and the Committees balance of skills, expected time commitment, knowledge and experience.
The Directors aim is to ensure that the balance of the Board reflects the changing needs of the Groups business and therefore composition, balance and skills are all regularly monitored.
SThree plc 28 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued A.
3.1 Excluding the Chairman the other NEDs have been determined by the Board throughout the year as being independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
3.2 The Board comprises the Non Executive Chairman, who is not classed as independent because of his position but who met the independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment, four Executive Directors and four independent NEDs.
This is in compliance with the Code, which requires at least half of the Board to consist of independent NEDs.
3.3 Tony Ward is appointed as the Senior Independent NED and is available to shareholders to discuss strategy or governance issues or should there be matters of concern that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the normal channels.
4.1 Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, upon the to the Board recommendation of the Nomination Committee and after appropriate external consultation and selection through advisors.
Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the relevant section below.
4.4 Upon joining the Board, each NED receives a formal appointment letter which identifies their responsibilities and expected minimum time commitment, being typically two days per month.
These letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
All potential Director candidates are required to disclose any significant outside commitments prior to appointment and must undertake that they have sufficient time to meet such commitments, in addition to Company business.
The Companys Articles of Association also set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of directors.
5 Information Board and Committee meeting papers are circulated well in advance of the relevant meeting and professional and where a Director is unable to attend he she is provided with a copy of the papers and development has the opportunity to comment on the matters to be discussed.
Minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to all the Directors, irrespective of Committee membership.
5.1 An induction programme is in place for new appointments and this is tailored to each individual to ensure that it is appropriate for their role and level of previous experience.
At scheduled Board meetings, Directors receive detailed reports from executive management on the performance of the Group and such managers give regular presentations on their areas of responsibility.
Board members are invited to attend the Groups annual conference in order to join senior management from each brand and geographic area, to discuss current initiatives and Board meetings are also scheduled at office locations spread throughout the globe, in order to allow all Directors to meet local managers and improve international understanding.
Directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, governance and accounting matters.
Regular updates are provided on other relevant topics, as required, and Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role in order to facilitate their professional development.
These measures help to ensure that the Directors continue to develop their knowledge of the Groups business and get to know its senior management, as well as being aware of their general responsibilities.
SThree plc 29 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued Major shareholders may, upon appropriate request, meet new NEDs.
The Board encourages Executive Directors to accept external appointments in order to broaden their experience, although currently no such positions are held.
5.2 Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as Directors and no such advice was sought during the year.
All Committees are serviced by the Company Secretarys team and are appropriately resourced.
5.3 Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are complied with and to assist in arranging any additional information as required.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole and the last appointment was made in October 2006.
6.1 An annual performance evaluation process, led by the Chairman, is in place to evaluate evaluation the Board, Committees and individual Directors.
This ensures that the performance of each individual Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and each Committee are properly assessed.
The Chairman also discusses the individual performance of Directors, in consultation with other Directors, whilst the SID holds annual discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the Executives, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
These assessments concluded that the performance of the Board, each Committee and each Director was and is effective and that Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles.
The evaluation process takes the form of a questionnaire completed by each Director, giving his her assessment of both collective and individual performances and the results are reviewed and debated both at Board and Committee level as well as with the individual Director concerned, if appropriate.
The Board will continue to develop this process, as necessary, in order to take into account evolving best practice and will be reviewing its procedures after the AGM in 2010, following the appointment of a new Chairman.
7.1 The Companys Articles of Association state that a Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next AGM, unless re-elected during that meeting.
Additionally, each Director must retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year following the year in which he she was elected or last re-elected, but shall be eligible for re-election.
7.2 Reference to performance, commitment and biographical details of Directors, as well as an explanation of the reason why each retiring Director should be re-elected, are all provided in the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company also complies fully with the Code in respect of its AGM voting arrangements and RNS disclosure.
SThree plc 30 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued B. Remuneration B.
1 Level and make-up The Directors Remuneration Report sets out in full, the policies and practices which demonstrate the Companys implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
2 Procedure Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the relevant section below and in the Directors Remuneration report.
C. Accountability and audit C. 1 Financial reporting C. 1.1 The Directors responsibility for preparing the accounts and statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report and Independent Auditors Report, respectively.
C. 1.2 A going concern statement is included in the Directors report.
C. 2 Internal control C. 2.1 The Boards statement regarding its review of the effecti veness of the Groups system of internal controls is set out below and this is reviewed annually.
C. 3 Audit Committee Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under and auditors the relevant section below.
D. Relations with shareholders D. 1 Dialogue with Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Company produces institutional shareholders Annual and Interim Reports which are published for all shareholders and the Companys website contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities, investor presentations and published financial results.
Shareholders can also subscribe for e-mail alerts of important announcements made.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, whilst ensuring that price sensitive information is released at the same time to all shareholders, in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Presentations are made after the Company has published its full and half year results and there is also dialogue on specific issues, such as the re-election of the Chairman, Minority Interests, introduction of and changes to the Long Term Incentive Plan and on other key remuneration issues.
D. 1.1 The Chairman, Senior Independent and other NEDs are available to shareholders to discuss strategy or governance issues or should there be matters of concern that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the Executive Directors, although no requests were made by shareholders to meet with these individuals during the year.
D. 1.2 Views of analysts, brokers and institutional investors are sought on a non-attributed basis via periodic sentiment surveys and these, as well as analyst and broker publications, are circulated to all Directors to ensure that all can develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Any issues or concerns are raised at the Board and Directors routinely receive regular reports on share price, trading activity and sector updates.
D. 2 Constructive use The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with private and of AGM institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
SThree plc 31 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued D. 2.1 The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and the proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
D. 2.2 The Companys registrars ensure that all valid proxy appointments received for the AGM are properly recorded and counted and a schedule of proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders attending the meeting.
There is full disclosure of the voting result via RNS and on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the AGM has concluded.
D. 2.3 All Board members are encouraged to attend the AGM and in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
D. 2.4 The Notice of AGM is posted at least twenty working days prior to the date of the meeting and the Companys website contains copies of all Notices issued.
Board and Committee Composition and Attendance in accordance with A.
1.2 of the Code As stated, the Board has established various Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures and powers, which are regularly reviewed.
All Committees operate in accordance with the relevant terms of reference, approved by the Board, with copies of these being available on request from the Company Secretary or downloadable from www.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings during the year, the Board met for the AGM and strategy away day.
The number of Committee meetings held for each respective Committee, and attendance thereat, is as follows.
Directors Possible attendance Actual attendance  Audit eration ination Board Audit eration ination Sir Anthony Cleaver 9 N A N A 2 9 N A N A 1 Russell Clements 9 N A N A N A 9 N A N A N A Sunil Wickremeratne 9 N A N A N A 9 N A N A N A Alex Smith 9 N A N A N A 9 N A N A N A Gary Elden 9 N A N A N A 8 N A N A N A Tony Ward 9 N A 4 2 9 N A 4 2 Alicja Lesniak 9 3 4 2 8 3 4 2 Paul Bowtell 9 3 N A 2 8 3 N A 2 Nadhim Zahawi 9 3 4 N A 9 3 4 N A Sir Anthony Cleaver was not able to attend the other Nomination Committee meeting as the business related to the recruitment of his successor.
SThree plc 32 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued terms of engagement of the external and subsidiary audits every five years Audit Committee in auditor: to review and monitor the and the current lead audit partner has accordance with C. 3.1 to C. 3.7 external auditors independence and been in place for one year.
There are of the Code objectivity and the effectiveness no contractual obligations restricting The Audit Committee consists of of the audit process, taking into the Groups choice of external auditor.
Paul Bowtell Chairman, Alicja consideration relevant UK professional Lesniak and Nadhim Zahawi, and and regulatory requirements: and During the year, the Committee accordingly comprises at least to develop and implement policy reviewed its policy on non audit work three independent NEDs as required on the engagement of the external which may be undertaken by the by the Code.
The Chief Executive auditor to supply non-audit services, external auditor and closely monitors Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, taking into account relevant ethical such work.
This policy provides that the Company Secretary and the guidance regarding the provision of non-audit work may be carried out by external auditors attend all meetings non-audit services by the external the external auditor only where that at the request of the Committee.
Paul audit firm, reporting to the Board, work does not impair independence Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant identifying any matters in respect and where the Committee believes and is considered by the Board to of which it considers that action or that it is in the Groups best interests have recent and relevant financial improvement is needed and making to make use of the external auditors experience, particularly in view of his recommendations as to the steps to knowledge of the business.
Such role as Chief Financial Officer of TUI be taken.
work has included detailed local Travel PLC.
statutory audits required due to The Committee considers legislation, other services required The Committees principal matters relating to the due to legislation, assurance work, responsibilities are set out in its terms recommendation for appointment, taxation advice and other specialist of reference and, broadly, are: to re-appointment, remuneration services where no internal resource monitor the integrity of the financial and terms of engagement of is currently available.
The Committee statements of the Company and any the Companys external auditor, continuously monitors the quality and formal announcements relating to  LLP PwC.
volume of this work in order to assess the Companys financial performance, Both the Committee and the external whether to use other accounting reviewing significant financial auditors themselves have safeguards firms or appropriately qualified reporting judgements contained in place to ensure that objectivity organisations.
in them: to review the Companys and independence is maintained, internal financial controls and to including the periodic rotation of the Details of fees paid to the external review the Companys internal control audit partner.
In addition to the annual auditors for both audit and non-audit and risk management systems and appointment of the external auditors work are given in the Notes to the identify and report on any business by the shareholders, the Committee financial statements.
The Committee areas where action or improvement regularly reviews their independence has fully evaluated this work and are needed and recommend actions taking into consideration relevant remains comfortable that it is to be taken: to monitor and review UK professional and regulatory appropriate and the fees justified.
the effectiveness of the Companys requirements.
The Committee internal audit function: to review reviews performance and fees Following its creation, the Group has arrangements by which Group charged and meets with the external continued to expand its internal audit employees may raise concerns about auditor at least once a year without function, which is now at full strength.
possible improprieties in financial management present.
The Committee believes that this reporting or other such matters function remains effective and adds and ensure appropriate follow up The Committee considers that the significant value.
currently via a confidential telephone relationship with the external auditors helpline, with detail published is working well and remains satisfied on the Groups intranet : to make Nomination Committee in with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, recommendations to the Board, for accordance with A.
4.2, to date, it has not considered it it to put to the shareholders for their A.
4.6 of the Code necessary to require PwC to re-tender approval in general meeting, in relation The Nomination Committee consists for the audit work.
The external to the appointment, re-appointment of Sir Anthony Cleaver Chairman, auditors are required to rotate audit and removal of the external auditor Tony Ward, Alicja Lesniak and Paul partners responsible for the Group and to approve the remuneration and Bowtell and accordingly comprises SThree plc 33 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued a majority of independent NEDs as undertake evaluations of a number business are identified, evaluated and required by the Code.
The Nomination managed and this process explicitly Committee closely monitors these includes the risks and opportunities activities to ensure that they are to enhance value arising from The Nomination Committees terms continually aligned with the Groups environmental, social and governance of reference are to review regularly strategy.
This process is the structure, size and composition consistent with the Turnbull Guidance including the skills, knowledge on Internal Control and has been in and experience of the Board, make Remuneration Committee in operation for the period under review recommendations with regard to accordance with B.
2.1 of the and up to the date of approval of this any changes and to review and Code Annual Report.
prepare relevant job descriptions The Remuneration Committee for new appointees.
The Committee is responsible for making also considers future succession for The Board assesses the effectiveness recommendations to the Board on appointments to the Board and to of the Groups system of internal Group policy for the remuneration of senior management, so as to maintain controls, including material controls the Executive Directors and senior an appropriate balance of skills and such as financial, operational executives and for the determination, expertise within the Company and and compliance controls and risk within agreed terms of reference, of on the Board.
These are additional benefits for each of the the Committee engages external designed to manage, rather than Executive Directors, including pension search consultants with respect to eliminate, the risk of failure to rights and any compensation for both Executive and Non-Executive achieve the Groups objectives, and loss of office.
The Committee is also Board appointments, as was the case can only provide reasonable, and responsible for the implementation for the most recent appointments, not absolute, assurance against and operation of employee share being Nadhim Zahawi and Alex Smith.
The In all such cases the Committee Board considers, in assessing what Committee comprises a majority of first conducted an evaluation of constitutes reasonable accuracy, independent NEDs as required by the balance of skills, knowledge the materiality of financial and nonthe Code.
Full information on the and experience on the Board and, financial risks and the relationship composition, role and operation of in the light of this, prepared an between the cost of, and benefit from, the Remuneration Committee and appropriate description of the role and internal control systems.
Directors Remuneration is detailed in capabilities required for the particular the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board regularly reviews the actual results compared with the System of internal controls in As Sir Anthony Cleaver is to retire as budgeted and forecast performance accordance with C. 2.1 of the Chairman at the forthcoming AGM, the of the Group, as well as other key Code Nomination Committee has already performance indicators.
The Board has overall responsibility engaged external search consultants for the Groups internal controls and prepared a job specification, During 2009 the Group rationalised system and for monitoring which includes an assessment of the its brands to implement a Country effectiveness in order to safeguard time commitment expected, as well as Director structure and lines of shareholders investments and the recognising the need for availability, responsibility and delegated Groups assets.
Executive Directors both for induction and in the event of authorities are areas which continue and senior management are a crisis.
to be reviewed, with policies responsible for the implementation and procedures updated and and maintenance of the system, In terms of succession planning, communicated accordingly.
which is subject to periodic, and at the Group has continued its Top 60 least annual, review by the Board.
leadership initiative, bringing together Assessment of risk and As explained above, in response to key managers from around the Enterprise Risk Management business requirements, the Group globe at regular sessions, in order to ERM framework created an internal audit function in identify and develop the most talented 2008 in order to facilitate this process.
The Board, through the Audit individuals for executive positions.
As Committee, has overall responsibility part of this initiative, Egon Zehnder The Board monitors the continuous for risk management activities and International, were engaged to process by which critical risks to the implementing policies to ensure that SThree plc 34 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued all risks are evaluated, measured with ERM specialists to be in recording of the key risks facing the and kept under review by way of attendance.
business: assessment of the likelihood appropriate KPIs.
Following the of risks crystallising: their potential thorough review of risk control materiality: progress on reducing each Areas for potential processes undertaken in 2008, the risk area: and the Groups response improvement: Group has continued to roll out its to each risk.
Responsibility for Group wide communication of ERM framework throughout the management of each risk identified is risk management processes was business and has consequently typically attributed to the most senior patchy: further developed and enhanced its appropriate person and, as previously, risk evaluation and ERM reporting the Audit Committee will review No formal risk management policy mechanism.
To objectively assess the register twice a year as well as and procedure document approved progress made, in October 2009 the receiving the various presentations by the Board: Committee commissioned a gap from key business areas.
analysis which was undertaken by The Groups risk appetite could be external ERM specialists.
This was better defined and formalised: facilitated by interviews with key Some key Executive job management as well as a strategic descriptions should be re-drafted risk workshop involving Executive to include reference to their risk directors, brand MDs, Country responsibility: Directors as well as key function heads.
This gap analysis identified The Groups Annual Report a number of areas that had already disclosure could be improved to been improved, but also areas for better describe its good progress further improvement, summarised as on risk areas.
follows: The Group has already seen the Improvements already made: benefits of its enhanced ERM framework through improved strategic and individual brand focus Group key risk register now on key risk areas, with greater clarity better targeted, with risk profile on risk ownership, identification of movement illustrated, with opportunities as well as threats, whilst Country Support function subalso facilitating better monitoring registers: of progress, mitigation measures Country Directors being engaged and forward looking assessment, to set up regular local workshop including, where appropriate, sessions to review update risks reference to ESG matters.
and improve risk ownership: Consequently, work is already well Regular reviews of risks integrity advanced to address the areas in place via a standing risk item for improvement, working closely as part of the quarterly Country with all parties, commencing with Directors brand MDs and Support Group-wide communication of the meetings: ERM framework, underpinned by a formal ERM policy, endorsed by the Additional Audit Committee Audit Committee, in early 2010.
It is meetings scheduled each year, expected that, when fully rolled out, with regular presentations by the ERM arrangements will meet, as brands, etc, on their approach closely as possible, the appropriate to business risk management BSI standard BS 3100 on risk tracking of improvement areas: management processes and that the resulting corporate risk register Further risk focussed leadership will improve risk areas, such as the workshops being scheduled, SThree plc 35 Corporate Governance Report Year ended 29 November 2009 continued Association of British Insurers Going concern ABI guidelines on responsible The Board has reviewed the Groups investment disclosures budget for the financial year ending In respect of the Companys 28 November 2010 and medium term compliance with the ABI guidelines on financial projections, for the next three responsible investment disclosures, years.
After taking account of the cash the Board confirms the following, in flow projections, including proposed relation to its responsibilities, policies capital expenditure and considering and procedures: the availability of borrowing facilities, the Board has concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts of A s part of its ERM procedures, both the Group and the Company on the Board takes account of the the going concern basis.
significance of environmental, social and governance ESG Corporate Social and matters to the business of the Environmental Responsibility Company.
Adherence to these procedures and disclosure of The Board recognises that the Group relevant issues is monitored by the has a responsibility to act ethically Internal Audit function.
in relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates, and that failure to do so could adversely The Board has reviewed but has impact on the Groups long and shortnot identified any significant ESG term value as a result of financial risks to the Companys short and penalty and loss of customer support.
long-term value or opportunities to It takes such responsibilities seriously enhance value.
paying due regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
Further The Board has received adequate details are disclosed in the Corporate information to make this Social Responsibility Report.
assessment by way of its ERM procedures and, where necessary, has taken account of ESG matters in the training of directors as well as ensuring inclusion in bonus Steve Hornbuckle structures.
Company Secretary 29 January 2010 The Board has ensured that the Company has in place effective systems for managing and mitigating significant risks.
Where relevant, these incorporate performance management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives.
There are no ESG-related risks and opportunities that may significantly affect the Companys short and long term value or the future of the business.
