36 Governance Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies governance throughout the Group and seeks to ensure that or practices: appropriate procedures are in place and kept under regular Financial matters including the Groups strategy, the approval of review.
The purpose of this is to ensure that the interests of the budget and financial plans, changes to the Groups capital management remain aligned with those of the shareholders.
structure, approval of contracts over 3 million annual revenue, The Companys shares were listed on the ofcial list of the acquisitions and disposals of businesses which are greater London Stock Exchange LSE on 24 July 2008, having than 5% of Synergys share capital and significant capital previously been listed on the Alternative Investment Market expenditure over 10 million: AIM.
Although AIM companies are not required to comply with the Combined Code, the Company complied with the Code Treasury matters including the setting of policies to enter in in substantially all respects.
As part of the process of applying contracts that are not in the ordinary course of business and for LSEs full list, a formal review was undertaken of all of the authorising bank facilities including bank borrowing, other loans Companys governance and reporting procedures.
Since the date and interest rate swaps : of admission to the full list, the Directors are of the opinion that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Board membership and powers including the appointment and Combined Code for the remainder of the year and up to the date removal of Board members and Company Secretary, determining of this report.
the terms of reference of the Board and establishing the overall The following statements set out the principles and methods to control framework: which they adhere.
Approval of major changes in the rules of the company pension The statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the schemes or fund management arrangements: financial statements is set out on page 34.
Approval of changes to employee share and other incentive schemes and the grant of executive share options: Board The Board generally meets monthly and mainly reviews strategy, Stock Exchange related issues including the approval of direction and financial and operational performance.
The Board communications to the Stock Exchange: met 10 times last year.
The Board comprises six directors, three executive and three non-executive, and is chaired by S G Wilson.
The raising of additional capital and reviewing the Their biographies are on page 32 and are considered to reect a Groups capital structure: suitable breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Board considers that S G Wilson, D K Nichol and R E Lerwill are Approval of all Related Party transactions: independent non-executive directors.
D K Nichol is the senior Approval of auditors remuneration and recommendations for the independent non-executive director.
While the Company was appointment or removal of auditors: listed on AIM, D K Nichol was allocated and still has an allocation of 15,000 share options under the Companys Overseeing the Groups main controls and their effectiveness: unapproved scheme.
However, these are not regarded by the and Board as having an impact on his independence.
No further share options will be offered to non-executive directors.
Other matters including health and safety policy and risk management policy.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but also delegates specic responsibilities to the Senior Directors receive Board and committee papers several days in Executive Board SEB and certain Board committees.
The advance of Board and committee meetings and also have access Board has adopted a Corporate Governance framework which sets to the advice and services of the Companys advisors.
The Board out matters reserved for the attention of the Board.
These include: adopts a procedure whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice on any matter Setting and amending the Groups overall business strategy and at the Companys expense.
The Board sets aside at least two The Board has previously undertaken a comprehensive evaluation consecutive days each year to conduct a review of its strategy, of its own performance and that of its committees and individual with SEB and other senior executives in attendance for certain directors with the support of external professional advisors.
sessions as appropriate: The aim of the evaluation was to enable each member of the The approval of financial statements, interim dividends and Board to improve his understanding of the views of his fellow directors: to understand how the directors perceive current recommendation of the final dividend: performance: to identify possible actions to improve the Board performance overall: and to receive personal feedback on his contribution to the Board.
Since that evaluation a formal corporate governance framework was established and the Board has focused its attention on strategic and governance matters and delegated most of the operational responsibilities to a committee of senior executives, the SEB.
37 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 New directors receive a full and formal induction, but this does The Committee is chaired by D K Nichol and also comprises not include a formal offer for major shareholders to meet new the non-executive directors S G Wilson and R E Lerwill.
non-executive directors, although they can if they wish.
The Committee met twice last year.
The chairman of the Committee will be available to answer any questions The non-executive directors have not as required by the regarding remuneration at the Annual General Meeting on Combined Code held formal annual meetings to appraise the 16 September 2009.
Chairmans performance, although this is under review.
Audit Committee The SEB comprises the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and, as Director, the Managing Director of each of the Divisions and the recommended by the Combined Code is responsible for: Group HR Director and meets at least monthly.
The SEB is primarily responsible for: Reviewing the annual financial statements and interim reports prior to approval, focusing on changes in accounting polices The management of Synergys businesses: and practices, major judgemental areas, significant audit Delivering the strategy to the agreed business plans and adjustments, going concern and compliance with accounting budgets which have been signed off by the Board: standards, Stock Exchange and legal requirements: Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the Monitoring the Groups systems of internal control: agreed business plan and strategy: Considering the appointment of the auditors and their Monitoring all risks operational, financial and reputational : remuneration including allocation of non-audit fees to ensure Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups that their independence and objectivity is maintained: system of internal control on a day-to-day basis: and Meet with the auditors to discuss the scope of the audit, issues Managing the business in an manner appropriate for a arising from their work and any matters the auditors wish FTSE 250 Plc company to raise: and Board Committees Review the Groups corporate review procedures and any The Remuneration Committee has the following key duties: statement on internal control prior to endorsement by Reviewing and making recommendations on the Companys the Board.
framework of executive remuneration and cost including all The Committee is chaired by R E Lerwill and also comprises emoluments, pension entitlements and other benets of the the non-executive directors S G Wilson and D K Nichol.
Each of executive directors and as appropriate other senior executives.
these directors is non-executive and regarded by the Board This includes agreeing the level of cash bonuses that are paid: as independent.
The Board has determined that R E Lerwill Determining, on behalf of the Board, the executive directors and S G Wilson have recent and relevant financial experience.
remuneration by reference to individual performance and The Committee met three times last year.
Executive directors market data: are invited to attend meetings and provide reports as and when considered appropriate.
Setting and conrming the rewards under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : and The Committee has direct access to the Groups auditors and liaises with executive management to review the effectiveness Reviewing the operation of executive share option schemes and of internal controls.
the granting of such options.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the The Committee has developed and implemented a policy on the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys supply of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure framework of executive remuneration and cost including all their continued objectivity and independence.
The Committee emoluments, pension entitlements and other benets of the is satisfied that the provision by KPMG Audit Plc of non-audit executive directors and as appropriate, other senior executives.
services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
It also determines on the Boards behalf the executive directors The Committee has approved the range of services that may remuneration by reference to individual performance and be provided by KPMG Audit Plc.
These include transaction due market data.
diligence and accountancy assistance on projects.
Subject to approved authorisation limits, the services require prior authority from either the Group Finance Director, the chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee.
Governance 38 Governance Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Corporate governance Nominations Committee Internal control The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system potential appointments to the Board and for making suitable of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The risk proposals to the Board in relation to potential appointments.
management process and systems of internal control are It meets as and when Board appointments or other senior designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failures to positions within the Group are made.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute The Committee is chaired by S G Wilson and also comprises assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the non-executive directors, D K Nichol and R E Lerwill.
The Committee meets periodically when required.
Only members The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of of the Committee are entitled to be present at meetings but the Combined Code and the Turnbull report in formulating others may be invited by the Committee to attend, if appropriate.
the systems and procedures in operation in the Group.
The Board has agreed the procedures to be followed by the The Group does not have an internal audit function, although Committee in making its recommendations.
The Committee has this is under review by the Board and the Audit Committee.
access to such information and advice both from within the The Board has reviewed and considered the current control Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it considers environment and considers it adequate given the Groups size necessary.
This may include the appointment of external and range of businesses.
executive search consultants where considered appropriate.
Synergy has a Group Finance function that reports to the Group Directors attendance record Finance Director and is independent of the business units to The attendance of directors at relevant meetings of the Board ensure objectivity and control when preparing Group financial and its committees was as follows: information.
The Group Finance function undertakes financial reviews of divisional finance functions on an ad hoc basis and Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee provides technical and commercial support when required.
During the year a conference was held by the Group finance Total number of meetings 10 32 function which all subsidiary finance functions attended.
At the S G Wilson 10 32 conference the Groups Financial Reporting function and controls were explained and feedback on their operation obtained.
R M Steeves 10 I M Jacques 10 Assessment of business risk A system of business risk identication, assessment and M L M Smit 10 evaluation is in place within the management process throughout R E Lerwill 10 32 the Group through a formal risk management framework, led by the Groups Director of Risk Management.
This is explained in a D K Nichol 10 22 separate report on page 26.
Strategic risks are regularly reviewed by the Board.
39 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Control environment Relations with shareholders The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Company system for reporting financial and non-financial information to Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective communications the Board, including: with shareholders.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the Company communicates with its shareholders by way of the The denition of authorisation limits, both financial and Annual Report and financial statements.
Detailed appraisal documents are produced for Company communicates with its institutional shareholders any major capital requests: through a combination of analysts briengs throughout the A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that year but particularly at the interim and year-end results stage.
are produced at least twice a year: The Company recognises the importance of maintaining a regular dialogue with shareholders to ensure that the Companys A review of monthly management accounts at Group and strategy and performance is understood.
D K Nichol, the senior operational level, including financial performance, together independent director, has not to date attended meetings with with balance sheet and cash ow analysis which are reported shareholders.
However, he would carefully consider any such against budgets, forecasts and prior year, with major request from a shareholder to do so.
variances explained: Business at the Companys Annual General Meeting will cover A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing the Annual Report and financial statements, re-election of on any new risks arising and management of existing risks.
directors, the reappointment of the auditors and the authorisation Control procedures of the directors to set the auditors fees.
Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out been developed for each of the Groups operating businesses.
in the Notice of Meeting and Report of the directors.
Voting The implications of changes in law and regulations are taken at the Annual General Meeting is by way of a show of hands into account within those procedures.
by members present at the meeting, unless a poll is validly Monitoring process demanded.
After each vote by show of hands, the level of proxies There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key lodged on each resolution and the balance of proxy votes for and controls.
The significant components are: against the resolution is announced.
Where possible, all directors attend and are available to answer shareholders questions.
Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls by the Group Risk Management Director, the Groups It is the Companys policy to post the Annual Report and Notice quality managers, the director of IT, senior finance managers of Annual General Meeting, giving at least 21 clear days notice and reviews by the Group finance team: as required by its Articles of Association.
Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying All results, statements and Company announcements are and assessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via accessible to all shareholders via the Groups website, the work of external audit and direct access to Group and www.
The Board confirms that it has considered the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls described above for the financial year and up to the date of this Report.
