0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 15 6 09 16:27 Page 63 Corporate governance Tate & Lyle is committed to high standards of corporate governance which the Board believes are central to achieving the Groups objectives and maximising shareholder value.
Compliance with the Combined Code Other responsibilities are delegated to Board Tate & Lyles ordinary shares are listed on the Official Committees, which operate within defined terms of List of the UK Listing Authority.
Details of these are given on pages 66 to 68. is required to state whether it has complied with the The directors responsibilities for the preparation of provisions in Section 1 of the UK Financial Reporting financial statements are explained on page 83 and Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance their statement on going concern is on page 58. as updated in 2006 the Code during the financial year under review.
The Board confirms that the Company Board and Committee meetings has complied with all the provisions set out in Section There were nine scheduled Board meetings during the 1 of the Code during the financial year ended year ended 31 March 2009, with two held at operating 31 March 2009. locations.
Five additional meetings were held primarily to approve such matters as the publication of trading This report, together with the directors remuneration updates and changes to the composition of the Board.
report on pages 84 to 96, provides details of how the All directors also met off-site for a day to consider the Company applies the principles and complies with Groups strategy.
the provisions of the Code.
Directors attendance at the Board and Committee Board of directors meetings that they were eligible to attend is shown The Board is collectively responsible for promoting in the table below.
the success of the Company and for providing Audit Nominations Remuneration entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent Director Board Committee Committee Committee and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys objectives and Elisabeth Airey 13 14 5 5 11 12 11 11 ensures that the necessary financial and human Richard Delbridge 13 14 5 5 11 12 10 11 resources are in place to enable them to be met, and Iain Ferguson 13 14 10 12 reviews management performance.
The Board also Sir Peter Gershon 2 2 1 1 2 2 sets the Companys values and standards and ensures Evert Henkes 13 14 4 5 11 12 11 11 that its obligations to shareholders and others are Sir David Lees 14 14 12 12 11 11 understood and met.
Tim Lodge 3 3 Stanley Musesengwa 4 4 The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it John Nicholas 4 5 for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually Stuart Strathdee 4 4 and includes approval of: Robert Walker 13 14 5 5 11 12 11 11 Group strategy: Dr Barry Zoumas 13 14 4 5 11 12 9 11 annual budget and operating plans: major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: annual and half-year financial results and interim In the few instances where a director is unable to attend management statements: a meeting, his or her comments on the briefing papers safety and environmental policies: are given in advance to the relevant Chairman.
Board and Company Secretary appointments: A rolling programme of items for discussion by the senior management structure, responsibilities and Board, which is constantly updated to reflect topical succession plans: matters, has been in operation for a number of years.
treasury policies: Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion directors conflicts of interest: and all directors participate in discussing strategy, system of internal control and risk management: and trading, financial performance and risk management.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 63 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 16 6 09 15:40 Page 64 How we run the business Corporate governance continued All substantive agenda items have comprehensive Board balance and independence briefing papers, which are circulated five days before The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who has the meeting.
Members of executive management attend no executive responsibilities, two executive directors Board meetings and make presentations regularly.
and six non-executive directors, including the Chairmanelect.
The names and biographies of the directors are The chart below shows the approximate time the Board on pages 60 and 61. has spent discussing agenda items during the year, separated into broad categories.
With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under the Code not to be independent, the Board considers all the non-executive directors, including Board allocation of time the Chairman-elect, to be independent.
Year ended 31 March 2009 Richard Delbridge is the Senior Independent Director Governance 8% Strategy and is available to shareholders if they have any issues Operations 42% or concerns.
16% The non-executive directors have a wide range of skills and knowledge and combine broad business and commercial experience with independent and objective judgement.
Finance Risk 29% The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonCapital expenditure executive directors can be inspected at the Companys and investment 5% registered office and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Board support Directors conflicts of interest All directors have access to the advice and services of A new statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring interest with the Company came into force on 1 October that Board processes are followed and that applicable 2008.
The Companys Articles of Association, which rules and regulations are complied with.
The appointment were amended in July 2008, permit directors to and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has the Board as a whole.
There is also a formal procedure adopted a policy and procedures for managing and, whereby, in the furtherance of their duties, directors can where appropriate, authorising, actual or potential obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, conflicts of interest.
Under those procedures, directors at the Companys expense.
are required to declare all directorships or other appointments to organisations that are not part of the The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in Group and which could result in actual or potential respect of legal proceedings and other claims against conflicts of interest, as well as other situations which its directors.
could result in a potential conflict of interest.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Board is required to review directors actual or The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are potential conflicts of interest at least annually.
Directors separated and their responsibilities are clearly are required to disclose proposed new appointments established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
to the Chairman before taking them on, to ensure that The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and any potential conflicts of interest can be identified and workings of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, addressed appropriately.
Any potential conflicts of while the Chief Executive is responsible for the running interest in relation to proposed directors are considered of the business and implementing strategy and policy.
by the Board prior to appointment.
Other significant commitments of the Chairman, Re-election of directors Sir David Lees, are set out in his biography on page 60.
The Companys Articles of Association require all The Board is satisfied that they do not unduly restrict directors to seek re-election by shareholders at least him from carrying out his duties as Chairman effectively.
In addition, any directors appointed by the Board must stand for re-election at the first AGM following their appointment.
Any nonexecutive directors who have served for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
64 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:43 Page 65 The names of the directors retiring and standing for well prepared and informed about issues they need to re-election at the 2009 AGM are set out on page 82. consider and that their commitment remains strong.
Further details are given in the letter from the Chairman During the year, the non-executive directors met to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting document.
together without the Chairman, under the chairmanship Information, induction and of the Senior Independent Director, to appraise the professional development Chairmans performance the Senior Independent The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, Director having first sought the views of the executive is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive directors.
In addition, the Chairman held a private accurate, timely and clear information on all meeting with the non-executive directors to appraise the relevant matters.
Chief Executives performance and to address any other matters the non-executive directors wished to raise.
On appointment to the Board, directors receive a comprehensive induction programme, which includes The Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees site visits and meetings with senior management across also undertook an evaluation of their work and the Group.
New directors receive background reading effectiveness during the year, the results of which were about the Group and details of Board procedures and reported to the Board by the respective Committee other governance-related matters.
The reviews concluded that each have been offered the opportunity to meet new nonCommittee was operating effectively.
executive directors as part of the directors Shareholder communications induction programme.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Directors receive ongoing training and updates on Director of Investor Relations maintain a regular relevant issues as appropriate, taking into account their programme of visits and presentations to major individual qualifications and experience.
A number of institutional shareholders both in the UK and overseas.
training sessions for directors were held outside the The Chairman and Senior Independent Director scheduled meetings on subjects of particular relevance participate in this programme as appropriate and the during the year.
The Company Secretary helps directors Chairman provides feedback to the Board on any undertake any other professional development they matters raised with him by major shareholders.
The consider necessary to assist them in carrying out their Investor Relations Department provides the Board with duties.
Visits to external events or organisations are also a detailed report on discussions with major institutional arranged for the Board to help non-executive directors shareholders each time it meets.
All directors receive in particular to gain a deeper insight into the Groups copies of analysts reports on the Company and the operating environment.
Board is briefed periodically by the Companys financial advisers on investors perceptions of Tate & Lyle and its Performance evaluation investor relations activities.
During the year, the Chairman led an exercise to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board and its The non-executive directors are encouraged to attend Committees.
presentations to analysts and shareholders, and in particular the full year and interim results presentations.
As part of the process, the Chairman held one-toone meetings with each director and the Company The Company aims to present a balanced and clear Secretary.
The main themes and observations on the assessment in all its reports to the public and to Boards effectiveness were summarised in a report to regulators.
Key announcements, financial reports and the Board.
It concluded that the Board continued to other information about the Group can be found on the operate in an effective manner but made a number of Companys website at www.
recommendations for improvements such as the timing Shareholders who attend the AGM are given the of Committee meetings and further enhancements to opportunity to put questions to the Board on matters the format and content of Board papers.
Actions are relating to the Groups operations and performance.
being or will be taken to address the matters raised Approximately 250 shareholders attended the AGM in by the evaluation with progress monitored by the 2008.
The level of proxy votes received in respect of Company Secretary.
each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, With regards to the performance of individual directors, are announced to shareholders at the AGM, notified to the Chairman concluded that all directors continue to the market and published on the Companys website.
make an effective contribution to the Boards work, are Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 65 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:43 Page 66 How we run the business Corporate governance continued Board Committees The members of the Committee during the year There are three main Board Committees: Remuneration, and up to the date of this report were: Nominations and Audit.
The terms of reference of Sir David Lees, Chairman each Committee, which are reviewed annually by Elisabeth Airey the Board, are available on the Companys website, Richard Delbridge www.
com, or from the Company Secretariat Iain Ferguson at the registered office.
Sir Peter Gershon from 1 February 2009 The Committees are supported by the services of Evert Henkes the Company Secretariat and, if deemed necessary, Robert Walker can obtain independent professional advice at the Dr Barry Zoumas Companys expense.
The Company Secretary, Robert The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Gibber, is Secretary to each Board Committee.
review the size and composition of the Board, Remuneration Committee including succession planning, and the leadership The Committee comprises the independent nonneeds of the Group generally: executive directors and the Chairman of the Board.
make recommendations on candidates for The members of the Committee during the year and appointment as executive and non-executive directors up to the date of this report were: and as Company Secretary, taking into account the Evert Henkes, Chairman balance of the Board and the required blend of skills Elisabeth Airey and experience: Richard Delbridge make recommendations on the processes for the Sir Peter Gershon from 1 February 2009 appointment of the Chairman of the Board: Sir David Lees review annually the performance of each member Robert Walker of the Group Executive Committee and to report Dr Barry Zoumas on that review to the Remuneration Committee: and make recommendations on the nomination of the The Committee meets as required, usually before each Senior Independent Director, the reappointment of Board meeting, and has a formal calendar of items for non-executive directors upon the expiry of their term consideration at each Committee meeting.
of office, and the proposed re-election of directors The Committee determines the remuneration packages retiring by rotation at the AGM.
of each executive director and the other members of the When recruiting non-executive directors, the Group Executive Committee.
This includes base salary, Committee considers the particular skills, knowledge bonus, long-term incentives, benefits and terms of and experience that would most benefit the Board, employment, including those upon which their service and external recruitment consultants are engaged to may be terminated.
The Committee also determines assist in the recruitment process.
the base salary, long-term incentives and benefits of certain other senior executives.
In consultation with the During the year, the Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive, the Committee also determines the Richard Delbridge, led the search for a successor to remuneration of the Chairman.
The remuneration of the Chairman, with the help of external consultants.
non-executive directors is determined by the executive The Chairman did not chair the Nominations Committee directors and the Chairman.
More information on meetings when the issue of his successor was being policy, practice and the workings of the Committee discussed.
As a result, the Committee recommended can be found in the directors remuneration report on the appointment of Sir Peter Gershon as a nonpages 84 to 96. executive director and Chairman-elect.
Sir Peter was appointed by the Board with effect from 1 February Nominations Committee 2009 and his biography is set out on page 60.
The Committee comprises the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the With the help of external recruitment consultants Chairman of the Board except when the Committee is and following a competitive selection process, the dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Committee also recommended that Tim Lodge be Chairman, when the Senior Independent Director appointed Group Finance Director from 4 December chairs the Committee.
The recommendation was approved by the Board.
66 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:43 Page 67 Following the end of the financial year and after a review and monitor the external auditors competitive selection process which was undertaken independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of with the assistance of external recruitment consultants, the audit process, taking into consideration relevant the Committee recommended that Javed Ahmed be UK professional and regulatory requirements: appointed Chief Executive.
The recommendation was make recommendations for submission to approved by the Board.
As announced on 19 May 2009, shareholders for their approval in general meeting Javed Ahmed will join the Company and the Board by in relation to the appointment, reappointment and 15 November 2009. removal of the external auditors and to approve their remuneration and terms of engagement: Audit Committee monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal The Committee consists solely of independent nonaudit function: executive directors.
Elisabeth Airey succeeded Richard develop and implement a policy on the engagement Delbridge as Chairman of the Audit Committee following of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: the AGM on 23 July 2008. and The members of the Committee during the year and up review arrangements by which employees may, to the date of this report were: in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting, Elisabeth Airey, Chairman financial control or other matters.
Richard Delbridge Sir Peter Gershon from 1 February 2009 During the year and up to the date of this annual report, Evert Henkes the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as Robert Walker set out in its terms of reference by undertaking the Dr Barry Zoumas following work: All the Committee members have extensive meeting prior to the Board meetings at which the management experience in large international annual report and financial statements, the half-year organisations and the Chairman, Elisabeth Airey, report and interim management statements were is an investment banker and former finance director approved.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed of Monument Oil and Gas plc.
significant accounting policies, financial reporting issues and judgements and reports from the The Committee meets at least four times each year.
external auditors: The Chairman of the Company, Chief Executive, Group reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit Finance Director, Head of Global Risk and Assurance process, the external auditors strategy and plan for who leads the internal audit function and other members the audit, and the qualifications, expertise, resources of the senior management team as invited by the and independence of the external auditors: Committee, together with the external auditors, usually agreeing the terms of engagement and fee of the attend meetings.
The minutes of each meeting are external auditors for the audit and recommending circulated to the Board.
Both the Head of Global Risk to the Board that  LLP and Assurance and the external auditors have direct be proposed to shareholders at the AGM for access to, and meet regularly with, the Chairman of the reappointment as external auditors to the Company: Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
reviewing the policy on auditor independence and The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items the basis of the provision of non-audit services by for consideration at each meeting and within the annual the external auditors: audit cycle to ensure that its work is in line with the meeting with representatives of the external auditors requirements of the Code.
in the USA while on a scheduled site visit : receiving and considering regular reports from the The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Head of Global Risk and Assurance on the Groups monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year risk management system, findings from reviews of financial statements and any formal announcements internal financial controls, and the remit, organisation, relating to the Companys financial performance, annual plan and resources of the internal audit function: paying particular attention to significant reporting undertaking a review of the effectiveness of the judgements contained therein, including critical internal audit function.
The review in 2009 was accounting policies and practices: generally positive but some improvements to review the Groups internal financial controls and its processes and practices were identified and internal control and risk management systems: are being implemented: Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 67 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:43 Page 68 How we run the business Corporate governance continued reviewing the Committees terms of reference and Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors its effectiveness, and recommending changes to the are given in Note 7 of the financial statements.
Having Board as a result of this review.
The review in 2009 undertaken a review of the non-audit related services concluded that no substantive amendments to provided during the year, the Committee is satisfied the terms of reference were required and that the that these services did not prejudice the external Committee had fulfilled its role and auditors independence.
responsibilities appropriately: Risk management reviewing the annual report disclosure items relevant The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the to the Committee, including the going concern Groups system of internal control and risk management.
statement and the reports on risk management and The schedule of matters reserved to the Board ensures internal control: that the directors control, among other matters, all reviewing the potential impact on the Groups significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
financial statements of significant corporate governance and accounting matters: The Groups enterprise-wide risk management and reviewing the findings of the external auditors, reporting process helps Group management to identify, their management letters on accounting procedures assess and mitigate risk.
The process involves the and internal financial controls and audit identification and prioritisation of key risks through representation letters: an ongoing programme of workshops, facilitated by meeting separately with the Chief Executive, Group the risk management function, held around the Group.
Finance Director, external auditors and the Head of The risks identified cascade up through functional and Global Risk and Assurance in order to understand divisional levels to the Group Executive Committee.
any concerns relevant to the Audit Committee that This culminates in the identification of the Groups key they might have: business, financial, operational and compliance risks reviewing procedures under which employees with associated action plans and controls to mitigate may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible them where possible and to the extent deemed improprieties in matters of financial reporting, appropriate taking account of costs and benefits.
financial control or other matters: and As part of this process, senior executive management reviewing an annual report on the Groups systems confirms to the Audit Committee once a year that these of internal control and its effectiveness, and reporting key risks are being managed appropriately within their the results of the review to the Board.
operations, and that controls have been examined and The Committee operates a policy to safeguard the are effective.
Responsibility for managing each key risk objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
and the associated mitigating controls is allocated to an This policy sets out certain disclosure requirements individual executive within each division.
Changes in the by the external auditors to the Committee: restrictions status of the key risks and changes to the risk matrix on the employment of the external auditors former are reported regularly to executive management employees: partner rotation: and procedures for the and to the Board.
approval of non-audit services by the external auditors.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the risk During the year, the Committee reviewed the processes assessment process was reviewed and changes were that  LLP have in place to made to the process across the Group.
The enhanced safeguard their independence and received a letter process broadly follows the Committee of Sponsoring from them confirming that, in their opinion, they Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO remained independent.
The COSO framework The procedure for the provision of non-audit related provides a process to manage the risk of failure to services by the external auditors is governed by achieve business objectives and assurance against a schedule appended to the policy on auditor material loss or misstatement.
A series of risk independence which states the services that the assessments were carried out which culminated external auditors are not permitted to provide in a workshop with the Group Executive Committee and those that the external auditors may provide, at which the specific Group risks and the key risks together with the appropriate approvals processes.
from each business area were considered.
The output, a Group Risk Assessment, was subsequently Each time it meets, the Committee receives a report reviewed by the Board.
setting out the non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and the fees charged.
68 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 12 6 09 16:43 Page 69 Internal control the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for submit written reports to each Board meeting, which the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing include consideration of changing threats and its effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive opportunities within the business.
The standard management the responsibility for designing, operating Board review of investments and disposals includes and monitoring both the system and the maintenance identification of major risks that could affect the of effective internal control in each of the Groups outcome of each project, with a sensitivity analysis: businesses.
These systems of internal control are the Company has defined procedures for the designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can authorisation and project management of capital provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance expenditure and investment, granting of guarantees, against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of trading and hedging of currencies and commodities laws or regulations.
and use of treasury products: and formal annual reports and presentations are received All the material joint ventures that the Group is by the Board on certain areas of special risk.
These party to currently follow the Groups formal systems of include insurance, treasury management, commodity internal control, and their internal control procedures trading, pensions, safety and environmental issues.
are regularly reviewed by the internal audit function.
The systems of internal control are based on a process The Audit Committee periodically reviews the of identifying, evaluating and managing risks and include effectiveness of the system of internal control through the risk management processes set out above.
These reports from the external auditors and the internal audit accord with the guidance in the Turnbull Report and function.
The internal audit function follows a planned were in place throughout the year and up to the date programme of reviews that are aligned to the risks of the signing of this annual report.
The key risks that existing in the Groups businesses.
It has the authority might hinder the achievement of the Groups business to review any relevant aspect of the business.
objectives are managed, controlled and monitored by The Board, with assistance of the Audit Committee, has the following processes: conducted an annual assessment of the effectiveness the Groups businesses operate under mandatory of the systems of risk management and internal control written policies and procedural manuals to provide during the financial year and up to the date of this annual an appropriate control environment.
The review, which is co-ordinated by the internal Groups commitment to competence, integrity and audit function, includes a Group-wide certification that ethical values.
The policies are reviewed by the Board appropriate internal controls are in place to facilitate annually and changes are made as appropriate to the Boards review of effectiveness.
The internal audit enhance existing control procedures: function monitors and selectively checks the results of key strategic risks are addressed through the Groups this exercise, ensuring that the representations made process of preparation of plans by each operating are consistent with the results of the departments work unit and the compilation of these risks in the during the year.
Where weaknesses have been identified, Groups operating plan: plans for correcting them are also reported.
The results there is a comprehensive annual planning and of this exercise are summarised for the Audit Committee financial reporting system comparing results with plan and the Board.
In the event that any significant losses and the previous year on a monthly and cumulative were to be incurred during the year as a result of the basis.
The process of planning, budgeting and making failure of controls, a detailed analysis would be provided short-term forecasts, which is subject to an ongoing to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board review, should provide early warning of potential confirms that no significant weaknesses were identified financial risks.
Revised forecasts for the year are in relation to the review conducted during the year produced at least four times a year: and accordingly no remedial action is required.
the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director undertake regular financial and operational reviews of the major operating units within the Group: Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 69 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
