com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance 35 Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction and management and control of the Groups activities and is committed to high standards of corporate governance in achieving these goals.
The Board confirms that the Group has complied throughout the year with the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2009 the Combined Code in all respects other than as set out below in the Areas of non-compliance section.
A copy of the Combined Code can be found at the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
A summary of the Companys compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code follows.
Composition of the Board The Group has a highly committed and experienced Board, which is supported by a senior management team, with the qualifications and experience necessary for the running of the Group.
During the year, the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and initially five, and latterly three, Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that two of the continuing Non-Executive Directors, Simon Batey and John OReilly, are independent and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In addition, the Chairman was considered independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman, although for the purposes of the Combined Code he is excluded from the calculation of the Groups number of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors is expected to act in accordance with ethical principles, including those of any professional body of which they are a member.
The Non-Executive Directors are of high calibre and contribute wide-ranging business and financial experience to the Boards decision-making process.
Biographies of each member of the Board are set out on pages 30 and 31 and their terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
At every Annual General Meeting AGM, one-third, or the whole number nearest to but not exceeding one third, of the Directors shall retire from office and may be proposed for re-election under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall be, first, those who wish to retire and not be re-appointed and, second, those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or re-appointment.
Any Director appointed by the Board since the previous AGM retires at the next AGM.
In addition, all Directors will retire no later than the third AGM following their last appointment at a general meeting and Directors may retire earlier to assist in the phasing of re-election of Directors.
Any term of a Non-Executive Director beyond six years will be subject to particularly rigorous review by the Board.
Any Director serving longer than nine years would be subject to annual re-election.
The retirement by rotation of Directors at this years AGM is commented upon in the Directors Report on page 33.
The Chairman, John Hughes, holds a number of non-executive directorships as set out on page 30.
The Board considers that the time commitment required by his other roles does not impact on his Chairmanship of the Group.
Neither of the Executive Directors has held any non-executive directorships of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are split.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for the management of the Groups day-to-day operations.
A formal statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has been adopted by the Board.
The Board has a Senior Independent Director, Simon Batey, whose role includes being available to shareholders if required.
Functioning of the Board The Boards role includes determination of strategy, consideration and approval of business plans, budgets and significant transactions, and monitoring operational and financial performance.
This is achieved in part through the regular reviews by the Board and its committees of operations, monthly financial reporting and forecast updates, and of risks and internal controls.
In addition to Board meetings, there is regular communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are fully aware of all significant aspects of the Groups operations.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least annually without Executive Directors present and, separately, also without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all the Directors continually update their skills and their knowledge and familiarity with the Group in order to fulfil their role on the Board and the Board Committees.
Technical updates dealing with changes in legislation and regulation relevant to the Groups business are provided regularly to the Directors by the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and the Groups external auditors.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes approval of Group strategy, budgets and business plans, Annual Reports and Interim Statements, and significant financing and capital expenditure plans.
The day-to-day operation of the Groups business is delegated to management, subject to defined authority limits.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are properly complied with, and that discussions and decisions are appropriately recorded.
The Company Secretary is also responsible under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good information flow within the Board and its committees, and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense in furtherance of their duties as Directors.
Training in matters relevant to their role on the Board is available to all Board Directors.
New Directors are provided with an induction in order to introduce them to the operations and management of the business.
Data centre visits are also arranged as appropriate so that Directors may familiarise themselves with the Groups operations.
The Board as a whole periodically meets at Group offices outside the UK.
Training requirements were reviewed as part of the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board.
indd 4 22 02 2010 09:56:12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 36 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Report continued Functioning of the Board continued Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act places upon a Director a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys Articles of Association empower the Directors, as permitted by Section 175 of the Act, to authorise such a situation.
Any such authorisation can be effective only if the interested Director s is are not counted in the quorum for the Directors meeting at which the matter is considered and the votes s if any of such Director s on any such authorisation will be ignored.
The non-conflicted Directors may impose conditions or limitations on any such authorisation.
The Board has reviewed the potential for conflicts of interests of Directors in the Company.
This includes all Directors being asked to notify the Company of any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest that may arise, before they so arise.
On being advised of such a conflict or potential conflict, the procedure of the Board is to consider whether to authorise any such conflict in accordance with the Companys Articles and, if it is to be authorised, to consider whether to impose any conditions on such authorisation.
Such conditions could limit the distribution, or use of, information to, or by, a conflicted Director or involve the Director absenting himself from discussions on the matter affected by the conflict of interest.
The Board regularly reviews the register of any actual and potential conflicts to consider whether any changes may be appropriate to this.
Transactions with Directors and with parties related to Directors require the prior consideration by, and approval of, the other Directors.
Board Committees The Board has established three committees to deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of reference of these committees are available on the Groups website.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the committees and the proceedings of their meetings are generally reported to all Directors.
Audit Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls, including reviewing and monitoring: annual and half year financial information including consideration of the appropriateness of accounting policies and material I assumptions and estimates adopted by management: management reports to the Board on risk and internal controls and the Groups public statements on these matters: I internal audit reports: I the Groups whistle-blowing policy: I developments in accounting and reporting requirements: I the committees effectiveness: I the performance and independence of the external auditors concluding in a recommendation to the Board on the re-appointment I of the auditors by shareholders at the AGM.
The auditors annually provide confirmation to the committee of their independence, stating the methods they employ to safeguard their independence: the audit and non-audit fees charged by the external auditors: and I the formal engagement terms entered into with the external auditors.
I The Audit Committee has implemented procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditors.
These procedures require non-audit work and the fees involved to be approved in advance by the Audit Committee after taking account of any potential risks of any current or future conflicts of interest.
During the year, the only significant non-audit work performed by the current auditors related to taxation advice, inter-company loans restructuring and the review of the Groups half year report.
The rotation of external audit personnel accords with their professional guidelines.
The Company has a policy whereby, before any former employee of the external auditors may be employed by the Group, careful consideration must be given as to whether the independence of the auditors will be adversely affected, and approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The Company reviews the performance of the external auditors at least annually at the conclusion of the annual audit.
Whilst the Company does not consider it appropriate to have a policy for rotation of external audit firms, consideration is periodically given to placing future audits out to tender.
The Audit Committee met formally three times during the year.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Simon Batey and its other members are Robert Morse and John OReilly.
The Chairman of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
At least annually, the committee meets with the head of internal audit, and with the external auditors, in the absence of management.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines the levels of remuneration for each of the Executive Directors and monitors the structure of the remuneration of other members of senior management.
This committee also considers and approves the Directors Remuneration Report to be submitted for approval by the members of the Company at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least twice a year and met formally three times during 2009.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained on pages 40 to 44.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John OReilly and its other members are Simon Batey and John Hughes.
Ian Nolan also served on the Committee until he stepped down from the Board on 23 December 2009.
Michael Tobin, as Chief Executive Officer, from time to time is invited to attend meetings of the Committee, save where the Committee is dealing with matters relating to his remuneration.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance 37 Board Committees continued Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee assists the Board in determining the composition and make-up of the Board.
It is responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, as the need may arise.
The Nominations Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and reviews succession planning for other senior members of management.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the ongoing development of succession planning within the senior management of the Group and will continue to monitor this on an ongoing basis.
This committee meets when appropriate and met twice during 2009.
It is chaired by John Hughes and its other members are Simon Batey and John OReilly.
Sergei Riabtsov also served as a member of the Committee until he stepped down from the Board on 5 November 2009.
Michael Tobin, as Chief Executive Officer, is normally invited to attend meetings of this committee, although this would not be the case where it was dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of his successor.
In the context of Sergei Riabtsov and Ian Nolan stepping down as Directors during the year, it was determined appropriate for a new Director to be recruited to the Board.
For this recruitment, a formal, rigorous and transparent process is being undertaken with the assistance of a specialist external search consultancy.
The first stage of this process was to select the specialist external search firm to be engaged.
Three leading firms were invited to tender for this role and each gave detailed presentations in this regard to the Nominations Committee.
Following consideration of these presentations, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, Heidrick & Struggles has been appointed to assist the Company in this respect.
With the assistance of Heidrick & Struggles, the Nominations Committee has evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors on the Board to assist in preparation of the description of the role and capabilities required from the appointment.
Before recommending the appointment of a Non-Executive Director, the committee will establish that the prospective Director can give the time and commitment necessary to fulfil their duties, in terms of availability both to prepare for and attend meetings and to discuss matters at other times.
Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at Board, committee and general meetings convened in the year, along with the number of meetings that they were invited to attend, in whole or in part, is set out below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 12 3 3 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Executive Directors Michael Tobin 10 12 2 2 1 1 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 12 12 3 3 Non-Executive Directors John Hughes 12 12 3 3 2 2 Simon Batey 12 12 3 3 3 3 2 2 Robert Morse 12 12 3 3 John OReilly 12 12 2 3 3 3 2 2 Ian Nolan resigned 23 December 2009 9 11 3 3 Sergei Riabstov resigned 5 November 2009 9 9 All Directors attended the Companys 2009 AGM.
Board performance review The Board and its committees carried out an annual review of their performance and effectiveness during 2009.
This review was conducted in three stages.
The first stage was completion by each Director of a detailed questionnaire on the performance of the Board, each of its committees, and of the Director himself.
The questionnaire was similar to that used in the prior year to enable a comparison of results to be made between the years.
It was, however, expanded to include additional and more detailed questions in relation to matters in which the Board wished to further evaluate its performance.
The second stage was an interview between each Director and the Senior Independent Director or the Chairman in the case of the Senior Independent Director to discuss the Directors answers to that questionnaire.
The third stage was a report to, and discussion by, the Board as a whole of the results of the questionnaires and the interview process.
From this, conclusions were drawn and, where appropriate, actions determined.
Where actions were determined to be appropriate, these have been or are being implemented as agreed by the Board.
They included reviews of the external communication of the Groups extensive work on Corporate Social Responsibility matters.
They also included the further development of certain internal communication procedures.
In relation to the membership of the Board, following two of the Non-Independent Directors stepping down from the Board during the year, it has been decided to recruit an additional Independent Non-Executive Director to the Company.
The process for this is reported on further in the report on the work of the Nominations Committee above.
This appointment will bring the Board into full compliance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
indd 6 22 02 2010 09:56:12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 38 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with shareholders The Group encourages dialogue with all shareholders at the AGM, at which a presentation on the Groups business is given, as well as during the year.
The Chairman, Executive Directors and committee Chairmen attend the AGM to deal with any matters raised by shareholders and all other Directors are encouraged to, and indeed do, attend as well.
The proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated independently by the registrars to the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director meet or speak with investor representatives regularly during the year to discuss strategic and other issues within the constraints imposed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
On the announcement of the Groups annual and half year results, the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director give presentations to institutional investors and analysts and hold a series of one-to-one briefings with key shareholders.
Copies of the presentations are available on the Groups website.
The Board receives regular reports on meetings with shareholders from the Chief Executive Officer in order to ensure that members of the Board, and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as an alternative channel of communication with the Board.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for the Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Executive Directors and staff meet to review both the risks facing the business, and the controls established to minimise those risks and their effectiveness in operation on an ongoing basis.
The aim of these reviews is to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identified and appropriate action taken at an early stage.
Reports on this review process have been submitted to the Audit Committee and the Board to enable them to assess the effectiveness of the process and ensure that the Group complies with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The Board has not identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not considered appropriate.
The key risks identified in these review processes are summarised in the Business Review on page 17 and note 3 of the accounting policies.
The Board confirms that procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal financial control framework, which are reviewed annually, are: the close involvement of the Executive Directors, including regular meetings with the Senior Management Team to review I all operational aspects of the business: clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority: the Board has responsibility for strategy and has adopted a schedule I of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision: a comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, budgeting and cash forecasting and control financial accounts I are prepared monthly and submitted to the Board: profit and cash flow forecasts are prepared at least annually, and revised when necessary, to monitor actual performance: and regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee at which financial information is reviewed and business risks are identified I and monitored.
During the year, the Group appointed an internal auditor to build upon and enhance the previous internal audit arrangements in line with the development of the Group.
The internal auditor reviews specific areas of the Groups operations selected for such review in consultation with the Audit Committee.
Formal reports of the results of these reviews are presented to and considered by the Audit Committee.
The main aims of the internal audit arrangements are to ensure that: an effective system of internal control is being maintained at a divisional and Group level: I the financial information produced by the divisions is accurate, relevant and is produced on a timely basis: I the Groups assets are safeguarded: I statutory and legal requirements are being met: I controls are in place to mitigate known risks: and I the divisions are consistently applying the Groups policies and procedures.
I The adequacy and effectiveness of these internal audit arrangements has been reviewed and will continue to be kept under review.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance 39 Going concern Comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
Based on the information contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the new five-year committed banking facilities in place, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Areas of non-compliance One of the current Non-Executive Directors, Robert Morse is not considered independent because he is associated with one of the Groups significant shareholder groups.
As such, the Company does not currently comply fully with the Combined Code provisions in respect of the composition of the Board and its Audit Committee provisions A.
The Board considers that the service on the Board of Mr Morse provides a valuable resource to the Company particularly because he has several years experience in the Companys industry both in Europe, and in the US where he is based.
As a result of the changes to the Board during the year, the Company has moved toward full compliance with the Combined Code.
Following the planned appointment of an additional Independent Non-Executive Director commented upon under the report on the work of the Nominations Committee on page 37, half the Board, excluding the Chairman, will comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Accordingly, at that time the Company will move to full compliance with the Combined Code.
On behalf of the Board John Hughes Simon Batey Chairman Senior Independent Director 9 February 2010 1 TCY ar09 back.
