report of the directors 44 Corporate governance Directors report on corporate governance changes to the Board since 24 february 2008 are as follows: tesco pLc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as we recognise that good governance is crucial in helping the business to carolyn Mccall Non-executive director resigned 10 April 2008 deliver its strategy, generating shareholder value and safeguarding our e Mervyn davies Non-executive director resigned 31 october 2008 shareholders long-term interests.
Jacqueline tammenoms Bakker Non-executive director Appointed 1 January 2009 Compliance with the Combined Code Laurie Mcilwee executive director Appointed 27 January 2009 the combined code on corporate Governance sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed patrick cescau Non-executive director Appointed 1 february 2009 and controlled to follow good governance practice.
the financial services Ken hanna Non-executive director Appointed 1 April 2009 Authority fsA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to section 1 of the combined code, how they have applied the principles Election of Directors and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the All directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least every three financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to companies must provide an explanation for this.
the companys Articles of Association require all new directors to be submitted for election by shareholders in their first year following the Board considers that tesco pLc complied in full with the combined appointment.
code principles of corporate Governance and code of Best practice for the whole of the year ended 28 february 2009, with the exception of provision The Chairman A.
3.2, in respect of which the company was not in compliance for part of clear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist and operate the year.
effectively for the positions of chairman and chief executive.
the chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board, while the provision A.
3.2 requires that at least half the Board, excluding the chief executive has executive responsibilities for the operations and chairman, should comprise Non-executive directors determined by the results of the Group and making proposals to the Board for the strategic Board to be independent.
the Board recognises the importance of a development of the Group.
balanced board with an appropriate level of independence.
there were, however, two unexpected changes to the Board in the year, with the Senior Independent Director resignation of carolyn Mccall and e Mervyn davies as Non-executive the Board has appointed one Non-executive director, rodney chase, directors due to conflicts of interest, which resulted in the Board not to act as senior independent director.
the senior independent director being in balance.
is available to shareholders to assist in resolving concerns, should the alternative channels be inappropriate.
the senior independent director While the process of finding replacements for carolyn Mccall and is also required to lead the discussion in relation to assessing the e Mervyn davies was started immediately, the Board places a priority effectiveness of the chairmans performance.
on ensuring that the right candidates are selected and the process of recruiting individuals with the right experience, availability and skills to Non-executive Directors complement those of the existing Board can take a significant amount the Non-executive directors bring a wide range of skills and experience, of time.
the company announced the appointment of two new Nonas well as independent judgement on strategy, risk and performance executive directors on 17 december 2008 as replacements for the two to the company.
Non-executive directors who had resigned, and the appointment of a further Non-executive director was announced on 12 January 2009, Both charles Allen and harald einsmann have served on the Board for ten in order to ensure that the Board remained in balance once the new Group years.
the chairman has conducted a thorough review with each director finance director, Laurie Mcilwee, was appointed on 27 January 2009. to assess his independence and contributions to the Board and confirmed Jacqueline tammenoms Bakker and patrick cescau joined the Board with that they both continue to be effective independent Non-executive effect from 1 January and 1 february respectively, and Ken hanna joined directors.
charles Allen brings extensive corporate operational experience the Board with effect from 1 April 2009, at which point the Board became and knowledge of the media industry and provides leadership for the once again fully compliant with provision A.
through his wealth of business experience harald einsmann contributes a valued dimension to the Board in terms of further information on the combined code provision be found at international marketing, brand building and human resource development.
Both charles Allen and harald einsmann will retire and offer themselves for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
thereafter they may Board composition and independence submit themselves for re-election each year if the Board considers them As at 28 february 2009, the Board of tesco pLc comprised eight to be eligible.
executive directors, seven independent Non-executive directors and david reid, Non-executive chairman.
rodney chase is deputy chairman and senior independent Non-executive director.
Ken hanna joined the Board on 1 April 2009. the structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual directors ensure that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Biographies for the directors can be found on page 43 of this report.
Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 report of the directors 45 full Board Audit remuneration Nominations meetings committee committee committee Number of meetings Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Non-executive Directors david reid chairman 9 9 4 4 charles Allen cBe 9 9 10 10 4 4 patrick cescau appointed 1.2.
09 2 2 1 1 Executive Directors sir terry Leahy 8 9 4 4 richard Brasher 9 9 philip clarke 8 9 Andrew higginson 9 9 tim Mason 8 9 Laurie Mcilwee appointed 27.01.09 1 1 Lucy Neville-rolfe cMG 9 9 david potts 9 9 Board responsibilities Board processes the Board has set out a clear schedule of Matters reserved for Board the Board governs through a number of statutory Board committees decision in order to ensure its overall control of the Groups affairs.
the Audit, remuneration and Nominations committees to which certain these include the approval of: responsibilities and duties are delegated.
these committees are properly authorised under the constitution of the company to take decisions and the companys strategic and operating plans: act on behalf of the Board within the parameters laid down by the Board.
annual and interim financial statements: the Board is kept fully informed of the work of these committees and any issues requiring resolution are referred to the full Board as appropriate.
major acquisitions and disposals: A summary of the operations of these committees is set out below.
authority levels for expenditure: the effectiveness of the Audit, remuneration and Nominations treasury policies: committees is underpinned by their Non-executive director membership, risk management and internal control systems: which provides independent insight on governance matters.
A copy of each committees terms of reference is available on our website group governance policies: and www.
the Board is serviced by the company succession planning for senior executives.
secretary, who reports to the chairman in respect of his core duties to the Board.
All directors have access to the services of the company secretary and may take independent professional advice at the companys expense in conducting their duties.
the company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its directors and officers.
Attendance at meetings the Board scheduled nine meetings in the year ended 28 february 2009 including a two-day off-site meeting which considered the Groups strategy.
Ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with matters between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
it is expected that all directors attend scheduled Board and committee meetings unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments and that all directors will attend the AGM.
Where directors are unable to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedules, they receive the papers scheduled for discussion in the relevant meetings, giving them the opportunity to relay any comments to the chairman in advance of the meeting.
directors leave the meeting where matters relating to them or which may constitute a conflict of interest are being discussed.
the table above shows the attendance of directors at scheduled Board meetings and at meetings of the Nominations, remuneration and Audit committees during the year.
com annualreport09 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 report of the directors 46 Corporate governance continued David Reid Nominations Charles Allen remuneration Ken Hydon Audit committee committee chairman committee chairman chairman Nominations Committee the remuneration committees role is to determine and recommend Members: to the Board the remuneration of the executive directors.
it also monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for senior management and david reid chairman seeks to ensure that the remuneration arrangements are designed to charles Allen attract, retain and motivate the executive directors needed to run the patrick cescau from 1 february 2009 company successfully.
rodney chase Karen cook At the invitation of the committee the chairman of the Board normally e Mervyn davies until 31 october 2008 attends meetings and the chief executive attends as appropriate.
dr harald einsmann representatives of the Groups personnel and finance functions attend Ken hydon as appropriate to provide support and the company secretary also attends carolyn Mccall until 10 April 2008 in his capacity as secretary of the committee.
Jacqueline tammenoms Bakker from 1 January 2009 sir terry Leahy the committee met ten times this year.
each year it conducts a review of the committees own effectiveness and its terms of reference.
the from 1 April 2009: responsibilities of the remuneration committee and an explanation of Ken hanna how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the combined code, are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages the Nominations committee leads the process for Board appointments 50 to 64. and the re-election and succession of directors, as well as making recommendations for the membership of statutory committees.
the Audit Committee committee is chaired by david reid and the company secretary also Members all independent Non-executive directors : attends meetings in his capacity as secretary of the committee.
Where matters discussed relate to the chairman, the senior independent NonKen hydon chairman executive director chairs the meeting.
the Nominations committee met patrick cescau from 1 february 2009 four times in the year to discuss the ongoing shape and capability of the rodney chase Board.
As well as reviewing the performance and development of the e Mervyn davies until 31 october 2008 executive directors and the senior executive levels below the Board, the carolyn Mccall until 10 April 2008 committee also regularly reviews board structure, size, composition, working arrangements and capability, and considers succession plans from 1 April 2009: for executive and Non-executive directors.
Ken hanna during the year the committee continued the effort of identifying the Audit committees primary responsibilities are to review the financial suitable candidates for the position of Non-executive director, and a statements, to review the Groups internal control and risk assurance successor for the position of Group finance director.
external search processes, to consider the appointment of the external auditors, their consultants were engaged to identify candidates.
the chairman and reports to the committee and their independence, which includes an ceo then met candidates before recommending a shortlist to the assessment of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work, as committee.
the committee members interviewed the candidates well as to review the programme of internal Audit.
before recommending three new appointments of Non-executive directors to the Board.
A similar process was followed for the selection At the invitation of the committee, the chairman of the Board, the of the new Group finance director except that, in addition to identifying finance director and his representatives, the head of internal Audit, the potential external candidates, the external search consultants also corporate and Legal Affairs director, other relevant executive directors carried out benchmarking of internal candidates.
and representatives of the external auditors regularly attend meetings.
the company secretary also attends in his capacity as secretary of Remuneration Committee the committee.
Members all independent Non-executive directors : the committee met five times this year and took advantage of an charles Allen chairman overseas Board meeting to meet with local management and review risks patrick cescau from 1 february 2009 and controls.
the committee also had regular private meetings with the rodney chase external auditors and head of internal Audit.
during the year the Karen cook committee received presentations on whistleblowing, it security, fraud, e Mervyn davies until 31 october 2008 bribery and corruption, business continuity and updates from business dr harald einsmann units.
each year the committee conducts a review of its own effectiveness and its terms of reference.
from 1 April 2009: Ken hanna Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 report of the directors 47 the need for training is kept under review and the annual agenda ensures the Board usually holds at least one meeting overseas each year to time is dedicated to technical updates which are generally provided by facilitate the directors understanding of the Groups international external experts.
this year training was provided on accounting and operations.
in March 2008, the Board convened in the UsA to enhance reporting developments under ifrs, ifric, iAs, and other relevant guidance their understanding of the progress of the fresh & easy operation.
training is also provided to meet specific individual needs of committee members.
Board performance evaluation the performance of the Board is a fundamental component of the Groups Management of the Group Executive Committee success.
the Board regularly reviews its own performance.
during the year the Board delegates responsibility for formulating and implementing ended 28 february 2009, the Board assessed its own performance.
this the Groups strategic plan and for management of the Group to the assessment was co-ordinated and directed by the chairman with the executive committee, which comprises the eight executive directors and support of the company secretary.
A questionnaire covering the main is chaired by the chief executive.
the committee, which is not a statutory areas of evaluation was prepared by the chairman and the company committee, has authority for decision-making in all areas except those secretary and formed the basis of in-depth interviews with each director.
set out in the schedule of Matters reserved for Board decision and the results of the evaluation were considered by the Board, and confirmed meets formally every week.
A number of senior executives also attend the strength of the strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the the committee and their valuable operational experience helps broaden company, a sound governance framework and practices compliant with the debate.
their attendance facilitates the communication of the the combined code.
committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
the company secretary attends in his capacity as secretary of the committee.
the chief executive reviews the performance of each executive director.
the chairman reviews the performance of the chief executive and each the executive committee is responsible for implementing Group strategy Non-executive director.
during the year, the chairman met with the and policy and for monitoring the performance and compliance of the Non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to business, drawing on the work of relevant committees, and reporting on discuss Board issues and how to build the best possible team.
the senior these matters in full to the Board.
independent Non-executive director met with the Non-executive directors in the absence of the chairman, to assess the chairmans performance.
the executive committee has set up further non-statutory committees including the finance, compliance and corporate responsibility committees Risk management and internal controls which are described in more detail below and operational groups which Accountabilities have responsibility for implementing the key elements of the Groups Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, our risk strategic plan and managing its UK and international operations, joint management systems are designed both to encourage entrepreneurial ventures, property acquisitions, finance, funding and people matters.
spirit and also provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
these committees and groups have as members an appropriate mixture the Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal of executive directors and senior management from relevant functions.
control within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
executive management is responsible for implementing and maintaining the Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest necessary control systems.
the role of internal Audit is to monitor the the company has procedures in place to deal with the situation where overall internal control systems and report on their effectiveness to a director has a conflict of interest.
the procedures have been revised executive management, as well as to the Audit committee, in order to in accordance with the new provisions set out in companies Act 2006. facilitate its review of the systems.
As part of these procedures members of the Board are required to: Background consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: the Group has a five-year rolling business plan to support the delivery consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their of its strategy of long-term growth and returns for shareholders.
every duties under companies Act 2006: business unit and support function derives its objectives from the five-year plan and these are cascaded to managers and staff by way keep records and board minutes as to authorisation granted by directors of personal objectives.
and the scope of any approvals given: and regularly review conflict authorisation.
Key to delivering effective risk management is ensuring our people have a good understanding of the Groups strategy and our policies, Training and development procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a structured All new directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored internal communications programme that provides employees with to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is a clear definition of the Groups purpose and goals, accountabilities designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups and the scope of permitted activities for each business unit, as well as culture and operations.
the programme has evolved taking into account individual line managers and other employees.
this ensures that all our feedback from new directors, and will usually include an overview of the people understand what is expected of them and that decision-making business model and Board processes, meetings with the executive team takes place at the appropriate level.
We recognise that our people may and senior managers, site visits across our international operations and face ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business so we provide clear briefings on key issues including social, ethical and environmental see guidance based on the tesco Values.
the Values set out the standards issues.
directors also receive an induction to those Board committees that we wish to uphold in how we treat people.
these are supported by he or she will serve on.
the Group code of ethics which offers guidance on relationships between the Group and its employees, suppliers and contractors.
the company the need for director training is regularly assessed by the Board and is a signatory to the dti code of conduct and met its obligations for regular training sessions are arranged to provide an opportunity for implementing the code for the financial year ended 28 february 2009. upskilling of the directors on a variety of areas relevant to the Groups business, including see issues.
in the coming year the Board proposes We operate a balanced scorecard approach that is known within the to hold training sessions focusing, inter alia, on the regulation and Group as our steering Wheel.
this unites the Groups resources around governance issues associated with operating a financial services business, our customers, people, operations, community and finance.
the scorecard following the acquisition of tesco personal finance.
operates at every level within the Group, from ground level business units, through to country level operations.
it enables the business to be operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
com annualreport09 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 report of the directors 48 Corporate governance continued Risk management Audit Committee the Group maintains a Key risk register.
the register contains the key the Audit committee reports to the Board each year on its review of risks faced by the Group including their impact and likelihood as well as the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the financial year the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate these risks.
the and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
content of the register is determined through regular discussions with throughout the year the committee receives regular reports from the senior management and review by the executive committee and the full external auditors covering topics such as quality of earnings and technical Board.
A balanced approach allows the degree of controllability to be taken accounting developments.
the committee also receives updates from into account when we consider the effectiveness of mitigation recognising internal Audit and has dialogue with senior managers on their control that some necessary activities carry inherent risk which may be outside responsibilities.
it should be understood that such systems are designed the Groups control.
our risk management process recognises there are to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material opportunities to improve the business to be built into our future plans.
our key risks are summarised on pages 38 to 40 of the Business review.
Internal Audit the risk management process is cascaded through the Group with every the internal Audit department is fully independent of business operations international ceo and local Boards maintaining their own risk registers and has a Group-wide mandate.
it undertakes a programme to address and assessing their control systems.
the same process also applies internal control and risk management processes with particular reference functionally in those parts of the Group requiring greater overview.
for to the turnbull Guidance.
it operates a risk based methodology, ensuring example, the Audit committees terms of reference require it to oversee that the Groups key risks receive appropriate regular examination.
its the finance risk register.
We also have a corporate responsibility risk responsibilities include maintaining the Key risk register, reviewing and register which specifically considers social, ethical and environmental reporting on the effectiveness of risk management systems and internal see risks.
oversight of these risks is the responsibility of the corporate control with the executive committee, the Audit committee and ultimately responsibility committee.
the Board assesses the significant see risks to to the Board.
internal Audit facilitates oversight of risk and control systems the Groups short-term and long-term value, and incorporates see risks on across the Group through audit and compliance committees in each of our the Key risk register where they are considered material or appropriate.
international businesses and our joint ventures.
the head of internal Audit also attends all Audit committee meetings.
We recognise the value of the ABi Guidelines on responsible investment disclosure and confirm that, as part of its regular risk assessment External audit procedures, the Board takes account of the significance of see matters  LLp, the companys external auditor, contributes to the business of the Group.
We recognise that a number of investors a further independent perspective on certain aspects of our internal and other stakeholders take a keen interest in how companies manage financial control systems arising from its work, and reports to both the see matters and so we report more detail on our see policies and Board and the Audit committee.
the engagement and independence of approach to managing material risks arising from see matters and the external auditors is considered annually by the Audit committee before it Kpis we use both on our website www.
com cr-report09 and in recommends its selection to the Board.
the committee has satisfied itself our Annual corporate responsibility review 2009. that  LLp is independent and there are adequate controls in place to safeguard its objectivity.
one such measure is the nonInternal controls audit services policy that sets out criteria for employing external auditors and the Board is responsible for the companys system of internal control and identifies areas where it is inappropriate for  LLp to for reviewing the effectiveness of such a system.
Non-audit services work carried out by  LLp process for clearly establishing the risks and responsibilities assigned to is predominantly the review of subsidiary undertakings statutory accounts, each level of management and the controls which are required to be transaction work and corporate tax services, where pWcs services are operated and monitored.
considered to be the most appropriate.
 LLp also follows its own ethical guidelines and continually reviews its audit team to the ceos of subsidiary businesses are required to certify by way of annual ensure its independence is not compromised.
statements of assurance that the Boards governance policies have been adopted both in practice and in spirit.
for certain joint ventures, the Board Finance Committee places reliance upon the internal control systems operating within our the finance committee, which is not a statutory committee, is chaired partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners Boards relating by the ceo, sir terry Leahy, and membership includes Non-executive to the effectiveness of their own systems.
directors with relevant financial expertise, executive directors and members of senior management.
the committee usually meets twice such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a year and its role is to review and agree the finance plan on an annual failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable basis to review reports of the treasury and tax functions, and to review and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and approve treasury limits and delegations.
the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of internal controls Compliance Committee and is satisfied that the controls in place remain appropriate.
the compliance committee, which is not a statutory committee, is chaired by the corporate and Legal Affairs director, Lucy Neville-rolfe, and Monitoring includes three executive directors and members of senior management.
the Board oversees the monitoring system and has set specific the committee normally meets six times a year and its remit is to ensure responsibilities for itself and the various committees as set out below.
that the Group complies with all necessary laws and regulations in all of Both internal Audit and our external auditors play key roles in the its operations world-wide.
the committee has established a schedule monitoring process, as do several non-statutory committees including the for the regular review of operational activities and legal exposure.
each finance committee, compliance committee and corporate responsibility international business in the Group has a local compliance committee committee.
the Minutes of the Audit committee and the various nondesigned to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations as well statutory committees finance, compliance and corporate responsibility as Group compliance policies, and each country compliance committee committees are distributed to the Board and each committee submits a reports to the Group compliance committee on a regular basis.
report for formal discussion at least once a year.
these processes provide assurance that the Group is operating legally, ethically and in accordance with approved financial and operational policies.
Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 report of the directors 49 Corporate Responsibility Committee during the year, the chairman, chief executive and finance director met the corporate responsibility committee, which is not a statutory with most of our leading shareholders to discuss issues relating to the committee, is chaired by the corporate and Legal Affairs director, Lucy board, strategy and governance matters, as well as new developments Neville-rolfe and membership is made up of senior executives from across within the business.
the chairmans meetings with major shareholders the Group.
it meets at least four times a year to support, develop and took place independently from the executive team.
in addition to this monitor policies on social, ethical and environmental issues, reviewing the company secretarys office, investor relations and other teams within threats and opportunities for the Group.
progress in developing the business engage with shareholders on a regular basis, and on a wide community initiatives is monitored by the use of relevant Kpis in the range of issues.
UK and our international businesses.
the Board formally discusses the work of the committee on a regular basis, including progress in it is normal that institutional shareholders may be in more regular implementing our community plan.
contact with the Group than others, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutions the corporate and Legal Affairs department and the trading Law and and private, at the same time in accordance with applicable legal and technical department provide assurance and advice on legal compliance, regulatory requirements.
health and safety, and see matters.
these functions report on their work on a regular basis and escalate matters as appropriate.
every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual report and financial statements or the Annual review and summary financial Whistleblowing statements, either in paper or electronic form.
these reports, together the Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a confidential with publicly-made trading statements, are available on the Groups protector Line service accessible to concerned employees where they website, www.
can report, anonymously if necessary, on issues of malpractice within the business.
these issues include unethical behaviour such as fraud, The Tesco PLC AGM dishonesty and any practices that endanger our staff, customers or the Annual General Meeting offers the opportunity for the Board to the environment.
our last Annual General Meeting in June 2008 was held near Birmingham, a departure from its traditional complaints made are treated as confidential and are investigated.
this was in recognition of the diversity of our Where appropriate, matters will be escalated to the director of Group shareholder base.
the 2009 AGM will be held in Glasgow at 10.30 am on friday 3 July.
the Management choice of location is based on our policy of widening the opportunity for in our fast moving business, trading is tracked on a daily and weekly basis, our shareholders to attend the AGM, by moving to different locations in financial performance is reviewed weekly and monthly, and the steering the UK each year.
steering Wheels are operated in business units across the Group, and reports are prepared of performance against the whole Board attends the meeting and is available to answer questions target Kpis on a quarterly basis enabling management to measure from shareholders present.
to encourage shareholder participation, we performance.
All major initiatives require business cases normally covering offer electronic proxy voting and voting through the crest electronic a minimum period of five years.
post-investment appraisals, carried out by proxy appointment service.
At our last Annual General Meeting, all management, determine the reasons for any significant variance from resolutions were voted by way of electronic poll.
this follows best practice expected performance.
guidelines and allows the company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
Relations with stakeholders We are committed to having a constructive dialogue with stakeholders By order of the Board to ensure we understand what is important to them and allow ourselves Jonathan Lloyd the opportunity to present our position.
engagement helps us identify company secretary new risks and opportunities to ensure that our long-term strategy is 1 May 2009 sustainable.
in some instances we find that working with stakeholders in partnership can help deliver shared goals.
We might not be able to satisfy tesco pLc all stakeholder concerns all the time but through engagement we can do registered Number: 445790 our best to balance competing demands.
We know that customers need registered in england and Wales to be able to trust our business and they will only trust us if we do the right registered office: tesco house, delamare road, cheshunt, thing by all our stakeholders.
hertfordshire eN8 9sL VAt registration Number: GB 220 4302 3 our programme of engaging with stakeholders including customers, staff, suppliers, investors, non-governmental organisations and others, is set out in more detail in our corporate responsibility review 2009 and on our website www.
Shareholder engagement We are committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders through proactively organising meetings and presentations as well as responding to a wide range of enquiries.
We seek shareholder views on a range of issues from strategy to corporate governance and see issues.
We recognise the importance of communicating appropriately any significant company developments.
com annualreport09 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009
