RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 30 Resources and relationships look after our customers is one of the core values of the business.
We are committed to providing market-leading working conditions for our staff and we encourage our suppliers to do the same.
Training and development We are committed to developing our people to bring out the best in everyone and do what we can to enable all our people to reach their potential.
all our staff have access to training programmes and personal development planning to ensure that they have the right skills to do their job.
Diversity and inclusivity We strive to provide an inclusive environment where all difference is valued, people are able to be themselves, enjoy coming to work and realise their full potential, regardless of their gender, marital status, race, age, sexual orientation, creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, Customer Question Time or disability.
We have been holding forums in our stores in Europe to ask customers how the economic slowdown is affecting them.
in the UK, we offer our staff a market-leading package of pay and benefits: Employee share schemes Customers through share ownership and share incentive schemes, over 170,000 this year hundreds of thousands of customers have told us what they of our people have a personal stake in tesco.
staff were awarded shares want from an every little Helps shopping trip.
Weve held over 200 worth a record 91 million last may under our shares in success scheme.
customer Question time forums in our stores in addition to many 52,000 staff were able to benefit when save as You earn schemes other focus groups.
We have also launched shopper thoughts, a matured in February, giving them access to shares worth 126 million.
proprietary online panel of 64,000 customers who provide us with rapid and detailed feedback on everything from the range of products we sell to the friendliness of our staff.
our latest trial feedback initiative is called Fizzback, which allows customers to tell us what they think via 170,000 free text message, phone, email or comment card.
clubcard also helps Over 170,000 of our UK staff have a personal stake in Tesco us to understand what our customers want, whilst allowing us to thank through our share ownership and share incentive schemes.
them for shopping with us this year we gave away over 400 million in clubcard vouchers.
We have national loyalty card schemes, based on clubcard, in ireland, malaysia, south Korea and china and pilot schemes in slovakia, poland, thailand and turkey.
We dont always get it right but we try to make our customers shopping trip as easy as possible, reduce prices where we can to help them spend less and give them the convenience of shopping when and where they want in small stores, large stores or online.
Employees With 470,000 staff in 14 countries, we play an important role in creating employment, fostering skills and generating economic development.
our people are our most important asset and never more so than in the current economic environment.
looking after our staff so that they can Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 31 To find out more go to www.
com annualreport09 We carry out ethical audits and target ourselves to cover 100% of our high risk own brand suppliers and ensure all commercial teams have received training on supply chain labour standards.
this year we carried out significantly more audits than the previous year 1,233 compared to 445.
Whilst we risk assessed 100% of high risk sites, we fell short on our audit targets, with 87% of high-risk sites being audited up on 73% in 2007.
We have put in place resources to improve performance in 2009. tesco does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the company.
How exactly are you helping the unemployed 90% of our suppliers say that we pay on time, are committed get back to work?
to meeting customers requirements, are professional and that we treat them with respect.
Suppliers to be a successful, sustainable business we have to ensure that our drive to bring cheaper prices is achieved without compromising our Were a growing business and because we know how standards, reducing quality, damaging the environment or harming important local jobs are to communities we advertise all the suppliers and workers who produce the goods we sell.
so we our new jobs through the local JobCentre Plus.
We let them take a partnership approach to working with suppliers sharing our know well in advance so that they have time to prepare knowledge and listening to suppliers feedback.
this includes providing candidates for interview.
There is growing uncertainty technical expertise, advice and insight into customer trends, and about jobs at the moment and its even harder for people making regular payments, on time.
who have been out of work for a long time.
Thats why we were one of the first companies to sign up for the We are one of four signatories to the UK governments statutory Governments Local Employment Partnership programme supermarkets code of practice.
since the codes introduction we have which offers roles to job seekers who have previously run tailored training for all tesco buyers to promote understanding and struggled to find work.
if problems do arise in supplier relationships we aim to air and resolve them through constructive discussion and when necessary In the last year we recruited over 3,000 long-term with the support of our code compliance officer.
We support the unemployed and other disadvantaged job seekers, competition commission on a number of changes that are planned compared with 434 in 2007.
We want Tesco to be a great to the code, including its wider application in the grocery retail sector.
place to work for all our people, so our new staff members will be given all the support and training they need to We hope that our annual supplier viewpoint survey encourages harness the potential and talent they can bring to our suppliers to give us more feedback on our relationships.
more than 6,000 suppliers during the year and more than 90% of them agreed that we pay on time, are committed to meeting customers requirements, are professional and that we treat them with respect.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
