50 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the Meetings requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code and The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and on paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees other occasions when circumstances require.
The quorum for produced by Sir Robert Smith.
The report describes the role of a meeting of the Committee is two members.
The Finance the Audit Committee in meeting these requirements.
Director and representatives from the independent auditors and Internal Audit attend meetings under a standing invitation.
Terms of reference The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and other Directors are able to attend meetings of the Committee under The Committees terms of reference, a copy of which can be the practice that any Director may attend any meeting of a found in the Responsibilities Governance area on the Committee of the Board, provided that they have no conflict of Companys website, are reviewed from time to time and interest in respect of business to be discussed.
It is usual approved by the Board.
They are based on the model terms of practice for the Chief Executive to attend meetings of the reference set out in the Guidance Note produced by the Institute Audit Committee.
Other finance and business risk executives of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and take account attend meetings and the Company Secretary is secretary to the of the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley and related SEC rules Committee.
The Committee Chairman reports regularly to the applicable to audit committees and the Guidance Notes set Board on its activities.
Four meetings were held during the year out in Sir Robert Smiths report published in January 2003. and attendance is set out in the table on page 43.
The terms of reference cover membership and appointment, meetings, duties and responsibilities, authority and a number Work of the Committee of other matters.
The terms of reference include a duty on the The Committee has established an agenda framework which part of the Audit Committee to examine potential conflict of the Company considers vital for maintaining an appropriate interests of Directors of the Company.
focus on the objectives of the Committee.
The agenda sets out all of the operational duties and responsibilities outlined in the Membership and appointment Committees terms of reference and is based on four regular The Audit Committee comprises three independent Nonmeetings which coincide with the interim management Executive Directors: David Richardson who was appointed statements and the announcement of results.
The areas to the Committee in March 2006 and became Chairman in covered by the agenda framework are as follows: May 2006, Richard Gillingwater and John McDonough who 1.
Corporate governance, including the regular review of the were appointed in December 2005 and July 2007, respectively.
Committees terms of reference and annual evaluation, Leo Quinn stepped down from the Board and his membership regulatory issues, review of delegated authorities and of the Audit Committee on 3 November 2009. review of auditor independence.
The Board has determined that all three members of the Audit 2.
Internal audit, including the review of the internal audit Committee are independent for the purposes of the Combined charter, internal audit review reports on the Groups Code, rule 10A.
3 b 1 under the Exchange Act and section internal control and risk assessment processes, compliance 303A of the NYSEs Listed Company Manual.
The members with auditing standards and progress against its internal bring wide-ranging financial, commercial and management audit plan, functional developments and key performance experience to the work of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee, David Richardson, is a 3.
Confidential sessions with the independent auditors and Chartered Accountant FCA, having previously held a number the Vice-President, Internal Audit, in the absence of of senior financial management and strategic planning Executive Directors and Company executives.
positions in Whitbread plc from 1983 to 2005 in the UK and US, becoming Group Finance Director in 2001.
Financial reporting, including current accounting and he held financial positions in ICL plc and worked for Touche financial reporting matters and review of interim Ross & Co. now Deloitte LLP.
In accordance with section 407 management statements, half-yearly reports and annual of Sarbanes-Oxley, the Board has determined that David financial reports prior to their submission to the Board for Richardson is an audit committee financial expert as that term approval, which includes the consistency of judgements is defined under the rules of the SEC, having significant, adopted.
relevant and up-to-date UK and US financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
Independent auditors, including appointment, audit plan and scope, review of audit fees, cost-effectiveness, approval of non-audit fees, reports on half-yearly and annual financial statements and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, status reports, management letters and the nature and extent of nonaudit services.
Governance 51 Audit Committee Report The audit plan and scope sets out details of the areas to be by engaging the firm of the independent auditors.
The covered and how the audit is to be conducted.
The Chairman previous adoption of certain other rules by the Committee, of the Audit Committee meets periodically with the including those relating to audit partner rotation, relevant independent auditors to discuss progress on the audit and the ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services major points to arise, and has the opportunity to assess the by the independent auditors in particular that the independent effectiveness of the process.
The Committee is also able to auditors should not audit their own firms work, make assess the effectiveness of the independent auditors and the management decisions for the Company, create a mutuality of process through reports made by the independent auditors.
interest nor be put in the position of advocate for the Company, when taken together provide adequate protection In addition to the items considered by the Committee under of auditor independence.
All fees proposed by the independent the agenda framework during 2009, other important issues auditors must be reported to and approved by the Audit considered included the combination of the UK Annual Report Committee or, between meetings, the Chairman of the Audit and the Form 20-F into a single document, an update on the Committee.
Details of fees payable to the firm of the progress of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and a review of new independent auditors can be found in note 17 to the Groups UK requirements in relation to annual certification of the consolidated financial statements.
adequacy of the Companys accounting systems for accurate UK tax reporting.
The independent auditors were appointed in The Companys practice, in accordance with UK company law 2001 and during 2009 a comprehensive review of their and the Combined Code, in relation to the appointment and independence was undertaken.
Following the review, the termination of the independent auditors, involves a Committee concluded that notwithstanding their length of recommendation from the Audit Committee to the Board, tenure, the independence criteria under the relevant standards which will then make a recommendation to shareholders in continued to be met and accordingly concluded that it was not general meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the US, necessary to tender for the audit work.
Accordingly, the where the independent auditors are accountable to the Audit Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that a Committee which has the authority to appoint or dismiss the resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the independent auditors without reference to shareholders.
Companys independent auditors be proposed to shareholders With the approval of the Board, the Committee has established at the AGM in June 2010.
At the year-end the independent guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former auditors formally confirmed that their independence and employees of the independent auditors.
The Group will not objectivity had been maintained.
In addition, they are required engage, on a part-time or full-time basis, any person who is or to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit was an employee of the Companys independent auditors, every 5 years and other key audit partners every 5 to 7 years as where that person has worked on the Groups audit either as a appropriate.
The audit partner responsible for the Group audit principal or partner at any time during a period of not less than will change as part of the rotation process in 2010. three years prior to the proposed date of joining the Group.
The Committee also undertook regular reviews of the internal Certain less stringent conditions apply to other employees or control systems and the statement to be made in the Directors former employees of the independent auditors.
Report in respect of internal controls, the Group risk profile, A whistleblowing procedure has been established for the Group tax reports, updates on compliance with the Combined confidential and anonymous submission by employees of Code and approval of the combined Annual Report and Form concerns regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing 20-F.
The Committee received reports on the Companys efforts matters, in accordance with the requirements of section 301 of in countering potential fraud in the Group.
Should a call be received on the dedicated function is actively engaged in assessing the adequacy and telephone lines or email sent to the dedicated address, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk Company Secretary or the General Counsel would immediately management processes.
Each quarter, the Committee receives report to appropriate management all concerns raised.
A course a summary of reviews of the businesses risk management of action is agreed and a report is prepared for review at the processes and any significant related financial exposures are next meeting of the Audit Committee, including details of highlighted.
The risk assessment process and risk mitigation actions taken to deal with the matters raised where the plans are an important part of the development of business significance of the event warrants such an action.
Business risks are considered at the quarterly reviews Chairman of the Committee will report, if appropriate, with the businesses, where all of the major strategic, whistleblowing claims to the Committee and the Board.
operational, compliance and financial risks are discussed.
The Companys Code of Conduct and Ethics includes the In determining its policy on the extent of non-audit services whistleblowing procedure.
Calls to the designated telephone provided by the independent auditors, the Committee has numbers and emails are received from time to time, as well as taken account of the rules of the SEC which regulate and, in direct contacts made with management, but no certain circumstances, prohibit the provision of, certain types of whistleblowing issues material to the Company were dealt with non-audit services by the independent auditors.
Non-audit by the Committee during 2009. services require the approval of the Chairman of the Audit Shareholders are given the opportunity at the AGM to ask the Committee.
During the year, certain projects requiring tax Chairman of the Committee questions on this report and any services were awarded to the firm of the independent auditors.
In those cases where the work was awarded to the independent auditors, it was concluded that the firm of the independent auditors was best placed to supply such tax David Richardson services in a cost-effective manner due to the experience and Chairman, Audit Committee qualifications of the individuals providing such services, the independent auditors knowledge of the Company and its tax 26 February 2010 affairs and that the best interests of the Company were served
