48 INTERNAL CONTROL The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system Financial plans of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To fulfil Each business prepares financial plans in accordance with a this responsibility, the Directors have established a Performance prescribed format, which includes consideration of risks.
Management Framework within which each of the Groups Group-level management reviews the financial plans with the businesses operates.
Within this framework, the management business units and a summary is presented to the Board for of each of the businesses considers strategic, operational, approval.
commercial and financial risks, and identifies risk-mitigation actions.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility for the Balance sheet reviews and walkthroughs of controls system of internal control, the Directors are aware that the Business unit and Group-level financial management conduct system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of periodic on-site reviews of the underlying rationale, support failure to achieve business objectives and can provide and controls for the significant line item components reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material comprising the balance sheets for each business in the Group.
Additionally, remote walkthroughs of controls over During the period under review, the Directors were not aware transaction processes for our newer, smaller businesses and of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss to joint ventures are conducted to reach those distant locales the Group.
The Performance Management Framework, which includes an Investment project authorisation ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, has been in place All significant investment project expenditures are subject to a throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of formal investment project authorisation process which takes the Directors Report.
Each business units management into account, inter alia, operational, financial and technical identifies and assesses the key business risks affecting the risks.
Post-investment analysis is conducted to facilitate achievement of its objectives.
Business unit management also continuous improvement in the investment planning process, identifies the risk management processes used to mitigate the including risk identification and mitigation.
key risks to an acceptable level and, where appropriate, additional actions required to further manage and mitigate Reporting, analysis and forecasts them.
The risk summaries developed out of this process are All businesses are required to report monthly to Group-level updated at least annually.
In addition, Group-level management on financial performance.
Comparisons are made management considers those risks to the Groups strategic with plan, forecast and prior year, and significant variances and objectives that may not be identified and managed at the changes in the business environment are explained.
The key risks, which are detailed on business formally reassesses its forecast for the financial year pages 34 to 37, and mitigation strategies are also discussed on a quarterly basis with monthly updates by exception.
At the at least annually with the Audit Committee as well as the half-year and during the preparation of the annual financial full Board.
plan, each business prepares a forecast for the following 18 months and reviews projections for the current and The risk management processes described above are applied to following year.
major decision-making processes such as acquisitions as well as operational risks within the business including environmental, Financial strategy health and safety.
The financial strategy includes assessment of the major The other key elements of the Performance Management financial risks related to interest rate exposure, foreign currency Framework, which constitutes the Companys control exposure, debt maturity and liquidity.
There is a comprehensive environment, are set out below.
global insurance programme in place, relying principally on the strength of the Groups financial reserves in the form of Business strategy reviews retained risk self-insurance in concert with the external Each business is required to prepare a strategic position insurance market for excess and catastrophic cover.
Group assessment taking into account the current and likely future Treasury manages hedging activities, relating to financial risks, market environment and competitive position of the business with external cover for net currency transaction exposures.
with specific consideration given to strategic risk.
Group-level The Group Tax function manages tax compliance and tax risks management reviews the strategy with each business and the associated with the Groups activities.
The Audit Committee, Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
through periodic direct reports from the Group Treasurer and the Vice-President, Tax, oversees the financial strategy as well Business reviews as the tax strategy, and considers the associated risks and risk-management techniques being used by the Group.
On a quarterly basis, Group-level management performs extensive reviews with each business.
These reviews consider current and projected financial and operating results, and address the progress of key strategic and operating initiatives and risk management activities.
Governance 49 Internal Control Reporting certifications The Chief Executive and the Finance Director evaluated the effectiveness of the Companys disclosure controls and In connection with the preparation of the annual financial procedures as such term is defined in Rules 13a15 e and statements, senior business general management and financial 15d15 e under the Exchange Act as at 2 January 2010. management sign a certificate which includes a declaration Based on such evaluation, those officers concluded that, as regarding the existence of internal controls, the proper at 2 January 2010, the Companys disclosure controls and recording of transactions and the identification and evaluation procedures were effective in ensuring that information required of significant business risks.
These certifications were expanded to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files to encompass section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley in support of or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, statements required to be made by the Companys Chief summarised and reported within the time periods specified Executive and Finance Director.
in the SECs rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Companys Sarbanes-Oxley management, including the Chief Executive and the Finance As a foreign private issuer listed on the NYSE in the US, Director, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding the Group is subject to the provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley.
In particular, section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires an assessment and certification by management regarding the Internal Audit effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and The Group has an established internal audit function: the Vicerequires the independent auditors to express an opinion on President, Internal Audit directs the activities of the internal such internal controls.
Accordingly, the Group undertakes each auditors on a day-to-day basis and has a direct reporting line year a comprehensive, risk-based approach to testing its to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audits internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements responsibilities include performing independent objective of section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.
The Companys management assurance activities in order to evaluate the adequacy and is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk internal control over financial reporting and the Companys management processes.
The Internal Audit plan is constructed Chief Executive and Finance Director have issued their report to provide geographic coverage on a cyclical basis and tailored attesting to the Groups compliance with section 404 of to address specific risk concerns.
During the year, Internal Audit Sarbanes-Oxley as at 2 January 2010.
While managements reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its internal audit certification and the independent auditors opinion on internal reviews of the Groups operations.
controls over financial reporting are reported as required in the Companys SEC filings, the results of its compliance with The Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of Sarbanes-Oxley also serve to underpin the internal control internal control for the year ended 2 January 2010 has been framework for the Group.
reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
During the year ended 2 January 2010, there have not been any changes in the Group's internal controls over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, those controls.
