42 KEY GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES The Board promotes the highest standards of corporate The Board sets the standards and values of the Company and governance within the Company through its support and much of this has been embodied in the Companys Code of application of the Principles of Good Governance set out in Conduct and Ethics and Human Rights Policy which can be section 1 of the Combined Code.
A summary of the found on the Companys website.
The Code of Conduct and Companys system of applying the principles and the manner in Ethics applies to all Directors, officers and employees, including which the provisions in section 1 have been complied with are the principal executive, financial and accounting officers, as set out below.
Section 1 of the Combined Code sets out the required by section 406 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the related rules of main and supporting Principles of Good Governance for the SEC and the rules of the NYSE.
The Code of Conduct and companies which are split into the following areas: Ethics contains provisions Reporting of Violations under which employees can report violations of Company policy or any 1.
Directors applicable law, rule or regulation, including those of the SEC.
US employees have the added protection of section 806 of 2.
Remuneration Sarbanes-Oxley, which prohibits the discrimination by a 3.
Accountability and audit company or others against an employee where such violations are reported.
The current procedure, which is set out in 4.
Shareholder relations Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics, provides for information Each of these areas is addressed in turn.
to be given anonymously or by named employees under conditions of confidentiality.
Those employees who come forward and give their name are assured that they will receive 1.
Directors the full protection of section 806 of Sarbanes-Oxley and no A.
The Board retaliation will take place.
This is of particular importance since 46% of the Companys employees are based in the US.
The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors Furthermore, the Company ensures that the principles are whose main roles are to: applied in other jurisdictions, subject to compliance with local create value for shareholders: employment and other laws.
provide leadership of the Company: The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group subject to approve the Companys strategic objectives: certain financial limits above which Board approval is required.
ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are The delegated authority includes such matters as operations, made available to management to enable them to meet acquisitions and divestitures, investments, capital expenditure, those objectives: and borrowing facilities and foreign currency transactions.
operate within a framework of effective controls which The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four enables the assessment and management of principal additional Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors business risks.
who, together with their different financial, commercial, technical and operational expertise and cultures, bring with The Board, which has reserved certain specific matters to itself them a wide range of experience to the Company.
for decision that are set out in a schedule of reserved matters, is responsible for approving overall Group strategy and The Board has determined that the Non-Executive Directors, financial policy, acquisition and divestment policy and major Richard Gillingwater, John McDonough, David Richardson and capital expenditure projects.
It also appoints and removes Struan Robertson, are independent, as they are independent members of the Board and Board Committees, reviews of the Companys executive management and free from any recommendations of the Audit Committee, Remuneration material business or other relationship with the Company Committee and Nomination Committee, and the appointment either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an of the independent auditors.
It also reviews the financial organisation that has a relationship with the Company.
performance and operation of each of the Companys Accordingly, the Board believes that there are no such businesses.
The Company has granted qualifying third-party relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise indemnities to the Directors that remain in force at the time of its independent judgement.
Governance 43 Key Governance Principles Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for a minimum On appointment, Non-Executive Directors receive a range of period of two years which is subject to approval by shareholders information about the Company by way of an induction at the AGM and the appointments are renewable by agreement programme which aims to provide an understanding of the with the Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Company as a whole, including its strategy, structure, Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the geographic spread of operations, financial position, markets, Companys registered office during normal business hours on products, technologies and people, as well as their legal weekdays and will also be available for inspection at the place responsibilities as Directors and, where appropriate, any of the AGM from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
training that is necessary for them to carry out their duties The Combined Code recommends the appointment of a senior effectively.
The Board and its committees receive, in a timely independent Non-Executive Director, and Richard Gillingwater manner, detailed information concerning the matters to be fulfilled this role in 2009.
The roles of Non-Executive Directors discussed at meetings to enable them to make informed are to: decisions.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose removal may be effected scrutinise the performance of management in meeting the only with the approval of the Board and can obtain agreed objectives: independent professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties, if required.
help develop proposals on strategy: and The Board ordinarily meets not less than five times a year and monitor the reporting of performance, including satisfying will hold additional meetings when circumstances require.
themselves as to the integrity of financial information and During the year ended 2 January 2010, the Board met on five that financial controls and systems of risk management put occasions.
Between meetings, the Chairman and Chief in place by the Company are robust and effective.
Executive update the Non-Executive Directors on current They meet together from time to time in the absence of matters and there is frequent contact to progress the affairs of management and the Chairman normally presides over such the Company.
With the encouragement of the Chief Executive, meetings.
the Non-Executive Directors have regular contact with senior management through their presentations at Board meetings, at strategic reviews and on other occasions.
Attendance by each individual Director at Board and principal committee meetings held during 2009 Corporate Social Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings held in 2009 54524 Meetings attended: David Newlands 5 n a 52 n a Richard Gillingwater 434 2 n a John McDonough 545 24 James Nicol 5 n a n a n a 4 Leo Quinn 434 1 n a David Richardson 44 n a 2 n a Struan Robertson 5 n a n a 24 John Zimmerman 5 n a n a n a n a n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of a committee All of the Directors listed above served throughout the year B.
Chairman and Chief Executive with the exception of Leo Quinn who resigned as a Director on There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman 3 November 2009.
During the year, other Directors have, by and the Chief Executive, with neither having unfettered powers invitation, attended meetings of committees of which they of decision with respect to substantial matters.
The Chairman is were not a member and these details are not included in the responsible for running the Board and ensures that all Directors table above.
On the rare occasion when a Director cannot receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business attend a meeting, he will normally make his views on the and corporate matters to enable them to participate effectively agenda items known prior to the meeting to the Chairman or, in Board decisions.
In advance of each meeting, the Board is in respect of committee meetings, to the Chairman of the provided with comprehensive briefing papers on items under respective committee.
At the Companys forthcoming AGM, and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, David Newlands will retire from the Board by virtue of length of service and will seek reappointment.
Directors continued and discuss a wide range of matters affecting the Company, its business, strategy and other matters.
The Chairman, David Newlands, is also Chairman of KESA Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
Whilst these are important C. Board Committees appointments, the Board believes that the Chairman continues to be able to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively The Board has established a number of committees and for the Company.
In view of this, as set out in the receives reports of their proceedings.
Each committee has its Remuneration Committee report, the Board renewed David own delegated authority as defined in its terms of reference Newlands letter of appointment for a further three years from which are reviewed periodically by the Board.
This was felt to be appropriate in order to satisfied that its committees have written terms of reference take advantage of his knowledge of the Company, his which conform with best corporate governance practice.
The experience of earlier recessions, his experience in chairing terms of reference for all Board committees can be found Tomkins when faced with a period of unprecedented economic under Governance in the Responsibilities area of the turmoil and finally his guidance in relation to the refinancing of Companys website, or a copy can be obtained by application the Companys banking facilities.
to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
The Chief Executives primary role is the running of the The Board appoints the chairmen and members of all Board Companys businesses and the development and committees upon the recommendation of the Nomination implementation of strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors have Committee.
The Company Secretary is secretary to all Board the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and with the Chief committees.
The committees, their membership and a brief Executive periodically, either together or separately, to consider description of their duties are set out below.
Directors membership of committees Corporate Social General Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility Disclosure Purposes David Newlands CM C James Nicol MM C John Zimmerman MM Richard Gillingwater MMM John McDonough MM C M David Richardson CM Struan Robertson MC C Chairman M Member Audit Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Details of the Audit Committee and its work can be found on The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee meets at least pages 50 and 51. three times a year.
The Committee is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director and its membership also includes the Chief Executive.
Its principal role is to determine, Nomination Committee on behalf of the Board, the framework or broad policy and The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the objectives on CSR and, in particular, in the areas of health, Board on all proposed appointments of Directors through a safety and the environment and propose any amendments to formal and transparent procedure.
The Committee meets as existing policies for approval by the Board.
It also reviews and when required.
managements performance in the achievement of HSE In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, objectives and reviews HSE reports produced by business units Directors are subject to reappointment at the AGM for compliance with all local health, safety and environmental immediately following the date of their appointment.
codes of practice, legislation and relevant industry practice.
Thereafter they have to seek reappointment no later than the More details of the work of the Corporate Social Responsibility third AGM following their previous reappointment.
The Committee can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Nomination Committee is required to consider new appointees Report to shareholders available on the Companys website.
and examine any possible sources of potential conflict.
The Committee and the Board are aware of and support the Remuneration Committee principles set out in section A.
4 of the Combined Code relating to appointments to the Board.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its work can be found on pages 52 to 61.
Governance 45 Key Governance Principles Disclosure Committee Committees The Disclosure Committee meets as and when required for the In general the committees were judged to be working well and purpose of, inter alia, reviewing and approving for release all working under clear terms of reference.
The Audit Committee price-sensitive information relating to the Company and had active member contribution and proactivity on the part of compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the the responsible executives for key issues and scored highly on UKLA and disclosure obligations under SEC rules.
actively engaging with the external auditors and demonstrating an appropriate degree of involvement in the work of internal audit and its findings and its relationship with the external General Purposes Committee auditors.
The General Purposes Committee meets as and when required.
It comprises Executive Directors and deals principally with dayPositive aspects of the Remuneration Committee included to-day matters of a routine nature and matters delegated to it giving its members prior notice of major remuneration by the Board.
developments and the provision of access to resources, including independent professional advice.
It was noted that D. Board, Committee and Chairman evaluations the Board and Remuneration Committee were much more involved in understanding and reviewing Executive and Under the direction of the Senior Independent Director, managements personal objectives, performance and Richard Gillingwater, evaluations of the effectiveness of the compensation.
Board, its Committees and Chairman were conducted during the year.
The evaluation processes drew on the experiences of Positive aspects of the CSR Committee included the promotion the previous evaluations of the Board and its Committees.
of constructive debate with appropriate involvement outside formal meetings.
Tomkins was felt to be a leading plc on CSR.
Board Miscellaneous suggestions in relation to all Committees The positive aspects of the Board included a Chairman and included a recommendation that the Board and Committees Chief Executive who worked well together and whose skills should specifically review the quality and content of papers and were complementary.
Areas of strength included the supporting processes at least annually and also conduct an consideration, assessment of and compliance with, good effective review of the respective Terms of Reference annually.
An area targeted for future improvement was an appropriate level of updating and Chairman involvement outside formal meetings.
Feedback identified areas of strength, such as encouraging shareholder participation at the AGM and the Chairmans Progress against the 2008 suggestions for improvement ability to work with the Chief Executive, both of which received Following discussions on senior management succession maximum scores.
The Chairmans market understanding and planning and talent development across the Company, good grasp of internal Company matters received favourable progress had been made, and it is now going to be embedded comments and it was felt that he provided good counsel and in an annual Board meeting to deal solely with these issues.
advice to the Group, especially during the downturn.
In addition to this meeting, another Board meeting has been scheduled in 2010 to deal with matters falling outside the Finally, the Senior Independent Director discussed the usual quarterly reporting or strategy meetings.
Chairmans performance with the Non-Executive Directors and with the Chairman.
The call for more time for longer-term objectives and planning was addressed at the 2009 Strategy meeting which was regarded as the most comprehensive yet, and it was felt that as 2.
Remuneration a result, the Company had been very well focused on surviving See the Remuneration Committee report on pages 52 to 61. the downturn.
Last years suggestion of the provision of more location visits in order to improve non-executive understanding had been delayed by cost and travel constraints but two site 3.
Accountability and audit visits have been arranged in 2010 to deal with this.
Financial reporting In the Directors Report, the Board seeks to provide a detailed understanding of each business of the Group, together with a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Accountability and audit continued management statements, half-year and full-year results provides opportunities for the Company to answer questions B.
Internal control from institutional shareholders covering a wide range of topics.
Further information on the internal control environment within The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Investor which the Group operates may be found in the Directors Relations staff hold an ongoing dialogue with institutional statement on internal control on pages 48 and 49. shareholders to ensure the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief Executive and other senior executives participate in C. Whistleblower reporting procedures industry conferences which are attended by existing and Under section 301 of Sarbanes-Oxley, all SEC-registered potential shareholders.
The Company exercises care to ensure companies, including non-US companies such as Tomkins, that all price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders acting through the Audit Committee of the Board, must at the same time, as required by the Listing Rules of the UKLA provide a procedure for the receipt, retention and treatment of and consistent with the SEC Regulation FD in the US.
complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, The Companys website provides shareholders and potential internal controls or auditing matters.
The Audit Committee and investors with information about the Company, including the Board have established a procedure for the confidential annual and half-yearly reports, recent announcements, investor and anonymous submission by employees of concerns presentations, share price information, Group policies, regarding these matters.
corporate responsibility and governance matters.
Shareholders are also able to put questions to the Company via its website.
Shareholder relations Shareholders also have the opportunity to attend the AGM to The Company places a high degree of importance on put questions to the Board.
Full details of the 2010 AGM are maintaining good relationships and communications with both contained in the Notice of Meeting.
It is the Companys practice institutional and private investors and ensures that to send the Notice of Meeting and related papers to shareholders shareholders are kept informed of significant Company at least 20 working days before the AGM and to propose developments.
separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
To assist members of the Board to gain an understanding of The Board notes that section 2 of the Combined Code seeks to the views of institutional shareholders, at each of its meetings encourage more active participation by institutional shareholders, the Board receives an Investor Relations Report which covers a including entering into a dialogue with companies and making wide range of matters including a commentary on the considered use of their votes principles which the Company perception of the Company and views expressed by the supports.
investment community, media reports, share price performance and analysis.
Analysts reports and estimates are also made available to all Directors.
The announcement of interim Substantial shareholdings Voting rights notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA at 26 February 2010 are set out in the table below.
Number Voting rights of shares % of total Schroders plc 87,374,018 9.90 BlackRock, Inc. 45,533,620 5.16 Massachusetts Financial Services Company 44,391,657 5.03 Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 43,969,223 4.98 Invesco Ltd through AiM Trimark, Powershares etc.
43,431,651 4.92 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 42,965,662 4.87 Legal & General Group plc 35,075,908 3.97 Norges Bank 27,500,712 3.12 Governance 47 Key Governance Principles Shareholder rights A general summary of the significant ways in which the Companys corporate governance differs from that followed The Companys issued share capital is comprised of ordinary by domestic US companies under the NYSEs listing standards, shares of 9 cents each.
Ordinary shareholders have no as required by section 303A.
11 is as follows: entitlement to share in the profits of the Company, except for dividends that have been declared and in the event of the Compensation of the Chief Executive liquidation of the Company.
Ordinary shareholders have the right to attend, and vote at, general meetings of the Company Under section 303A.
05 b, the compensation committee must or to appoint a proxy to attend and vote at such meetings on have a written charter that addresses the committees purpose their behalf.
On a poll, ordinary shareholders have one vote for and responsibilities which, inter alia, has responsibility to every share held.
review and approve corporate goals and objectives relevant to Chief Executive compensation, evaluate the Chief Executives Details of the Companys share capital, including rights and performance in light of those goals and objectives, and, either obligations, are set out in note 38 to the consolidated financial as a committee or together with the other independent statements and details of purchases of its own shares are set out directors as directed by the board, determine and approve the on page 164.
Chief Executives compensation level based on this evaluation.
The Companys authorised share capital previously included The Remuneration Committee of Tomkins has been delegated deferred shares of 1 each.
When the Company by the Board the authority to review and determine the redenominated its ordinary shares from sterling to US dollars, total individual remuneration packages of each Executive it was required by law to have a minimum share capital of Director for approval by the Board.
The deferred shares were issued to meet this requirement, which was removed on the Re-appointment of independent auditors implementation of section 542 of the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009.
Accordingly, the Company bought back The Companys practice, in accordance with UK company and cancelled the deferred shares on 16 December 2009. law and the Combined Code in relation to the appointment The deferred shares were not listed on any investment and termination of the independent auditors, is that a exchange and had extremely limited rights such that they recommendation is made by the Audit Committee to the effectively had no value.
Board, which will then make a recommendation to shareholders in general meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the US, where the independent auditors are Significant agreements and change of control accountable to the audit committee, which has the authority The Group has issued bonds totalling 400 million.
The terms to appoint or dismiss the independent auditors without of the bonds entitle the holders to require redemption where reference to shareholders.
there is a change of control of the Company combined with a ratings downgrade.
In addition, under the Groups 400 million Corporate governance guidelines credit facility and under the $450 million credit facility that will replace it in August 2010, the lenders are entitled, on a change Under NYSE rules, a listed company should have a of control, to require prepayment of amounts outstanding.
nomination corporate governance committee whose responsibility includes developing and recommending corporate governance guidelines to the Board and to oversee Compliance statement the evaluation of the Board and management.
Except where indicated in relation to the Companys share schemes, the Company complied throughout the year ended It is not the Companys practice for the Nomination Committee 2 January 2010 with all the provisions set out in section 1 to have responsibility for developing corporate governance of the Combined Code.
The internal control report and principles, this being a matter for the entire Board.
This is a certifications of the Chief Executive and Finance Director common approach amongst UK listed companies.
The required under sections 302 and 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley, and evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Directors, is the related rules of the SEC, will be filed as exhibits to the overseen by the Senior Independent Director.
Companys Form 20-F. Pursuant to section 303A of the listing standards of the NYSE, the Foreign Private Issuer Annual Written Affirmation was sent to the NYSE in June 2009, affirming without qualification that Tomkins has complied with the requirements laid down by the NYSE with such exceptions as are permitted for Foreign Private Issuers, as described below.
