Corporate Governance Report The Autonomy Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance, which it considers are critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors trust in the company.
Autonomy expects all its directors and employees to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The company will strive to act in accordance with the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of every country in which it does business.
corporate governance: Compliance With the Combined Code engagement of professional advisors: The companys ordinary shares are listed in the U. K. on the London Stock political donations: and Exchange.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the U. K. Listing internal control arrangements.
Authority, the company confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, and through to the date of this document, it was The schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed by the compliant with the provisions of, and applied the principles of, Section 1 of Board in February 2010, at which time it was determined that no material the Combined Code.
The following section, together with the amendments were required.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 32, provides details of how the Board committees.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Board company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Committees are given on pages 24 and 25.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report Board Organization and Structure and financial statements, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the company's position, lies with the Board.
The Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business Board Meetings and has the powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to The Board meets at least once a quarter, and the meetings are structured the relevant laws of England and Wales and the Articles of Association.
All directors participate in discussing the The Board: strategy, trading, financial performance and all other matters relating to the company.
Prior to each meeting, the Board is furnished with information in has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance a form and quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the of the group and its businesses: state of the business and performance.
is required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters independent from executive management: The following table shows the number of years directors have been on the is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business: Board as at 22 February 2010 and their attendance at scheduled Board and meetings they were eligible to attend during 2009: is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on the groups system of corporate governance.
Attended Years on Board Meetings Schedule of Matters 1 Robert Webb, Chairman................... 4 4 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision Barry Ariko........................................ 10 7 7 and these include: 2 Richard Gaunt................................... 4 7 7 3 Sushovan Hussain............................ 6 6 7 approval of financial statements: Dr. Michael Lynch............................. 14 7 7 dividends: John McMonigall............................... 11 7 7 board appointments and removals: 3 Richard Perle.................................... 10 6 7 long term objectives and commercial strategy: changes in capital structure: 1 Commenced 1 May 2009 appointment, removal and compensation of senior management: 2 Mr. Gaunt commenced service as a non-executive director in 2006 following major investments including mergers and acquisitions: service as an executive director from the companys founding.
risk management: 3 Unable to attend one meeting due to pre-arranged schedule conflicts.
22 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Report In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings responsibility for the direction of the Company.
In particular, non-executive to deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting directors are responsible for: because of another engagement are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relevant for such meetings and are able to discuss bringing a wide range of skills and experience to the group, including issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, financial controls and systems of risk management: constructively challenging the strategy proposed by the Chief Division of Responsibilities Executive and executive directors: The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a scrutinising and challenging performance across the groups business: division of responsibilities that is established in writing.
The Chairman is assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and controls responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board, of the group: and ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive is ensuring appropriate remuneration and succession planning responsible for the management of the groups business and the arrangements are in place in relation to executive directors and other implementation of Board strategy and policy.
Board Composition, Balance and Independence Throughout 2009 the company has complied with procedures in place for The Board comprises seven Directors, six of whom served throughout all of ensuring that the Boards powers to authorize conflict situations have been 2009.
In addition to the Chairman, there are four non-executive directors, operated effectively.
During 2009 no conflicts arose which would require and two executive directors.
the Board to exercise authority or discretion in relation to such conflicts.
The names and biographical details of the current directors are set out on Company Secretary pages 18 to 19.
The terms and conditions of employment of the nonAll directors have access to the advice and services of the Company executives are available for inspection at any time at the registered office.
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Two new board candidates have been identified, who are expected to take complied with.
The Company Secretary ensures that the directors take up their appointments in March 2010.
Announcements will be made independent professional advice as required.
with sufficient financial and informational resources to undertake their duties.
The Board has been established in order to give a balance of knowledge, experience and objective overview.
The Board is structured to ensure that there is no undue dominance by the executive directors, with controls over Board Effectiveness compensation and all other material matters reserved for the Board rather than individual executives, as discussed herein.
The Board is satisfied that Appointments to the Board the appropriate balance has been consistently achieved.
There is a formal procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
This is described in the section on the Nominations Committee.
The four non-executive directors and Chairman provide a blend of Robert Webb was identified as a potential candidate by internal sources experience to enable them to bring strong independent judgement and and subsequently recommended to the Board by the Nominations considerable knowledge and experience to the Board's deliberations.
The Committee on the basis of his wealth of legal and business experience.
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sit as executive The whole Board considered Mr. Webbs appointment before his directors to provide the necessary skills in commercial, operational and appointment was confirmed.
Mr. McMonigall is the senior independent nonexecutive director.
Information and Professional Development From time to time, the Board considers input from non-Board members on The Board considers all of its present non-executive directors to be fully matters of significance or on new opportunities for the group.
Financial independent and free from any material business or other relationships that plans including results and market forecasts are regularly discussed at could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, Board meetings.
Non-executive directors periodically visit different parts of with the exception of Mr. Gaunt who served as an executive director the group and are provided with briefings and information to assist them in through to the end of 2005.
Each of Messrs. Ariko, McMonigall and Perles performing their duties.
service to the Board has been extraordinary since the companys founding and their continued service is of high benefit notwithstanding their tenure of The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training over nine years.
programmes are provided and the Company Secretary is to organise the programmes.
Individual directors are also expected to take responsibility There are no cross-directorships or significant links between directors for identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure that they are serving on the Board through involvement in other companies or bodies.
adequately informed about the company and their responsibilities as a The sole limited exception to the foregoing is that both Dr. Lynch and director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, Mr. Webb serve as non-executive directors of the BBC.
The Board has ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a considered this relationship and determined that there is no impairment of listed company.
the independence of either individual, noting that the position is a noncommercial role, the large size of the BBC board and that neither individual can of their own accord directly influence compensation for the other in any situation.
Under the laws of England and Wales, the executive and non-executive directors are equal members of the Board and have overall collective Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Corporate Governance Report On appointment, individual directors are expected to undergo an induction Board Committees programme in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Code, covering, amongst other things: Committee and a Nominations Committee to deal with specific aspects of the company's affairs.
The Board is satisfied that the terms of reference for the business of the group: each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code.
their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors of the company: The terms of reference for all Board committees can be found on the briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and companys website at www.
com or a copy can be obtained by opportunities to visit business operations.
application to the Company Secretary at the companys registered office.
If appropriate, the induction will also include briefings on the scope of The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them committees, meetings with the external auditor and other areas the to undertake their duties in an effective manner, at the cost of the company Company Secretary deems fit, considering the directors area of as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external responsibility.
The Company Secretary provides updates on legal, consultants where appropriate.
accounting and regulatory changes and developments relevant to individual directors areas of responsibility.
Throughout their period in office, the The Company Secretary or his delegate acts as Secretary to the directors are continually updated on the groups businesses.
The minutes of committee meetings are available to all directors.
No one other than committee chairmen and members are Performance Evaluation entitled to be present at a meeting of the nomination, audit or remuneration The members of the Board evaluate the performance of the Board, its committees, but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.
committees and individual members at meetings, at the first meeting following the end of the year, with the aim of improving individual Audit Committee contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the The members of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a groups performance.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible independent director, are responsible for the scope of the evaluation, taking to attend, are set out below: into account the views of executive directors.
Attended The evaluation is designed to determine whether the Board continues to be Meetings capable of providing the high level judgement required and whether, as a Barry Ariko...................................................................... 4 4 Board, the directors are informed and up to date with the business and its John McMonigall............................................................. 4 4 goals and understand the context within which it operates.
The current 1 Richard Perle.................................................................. 3 4 evaluation is also to include a review of the administration of the Board covering the operation of the Board, its agenda and the reports and 1 Unable to attend one meeting due to pre-arranged schedule conflicts.
information produced for the Boards consideration.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having year ahead.
the necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements, and each have served as the chair at times during 2009.
The evaluation undertaken in 2009 found the performance of each director to be effective and concluded that the Board provides the effective Candidates for permanent chair of the Audit Committee are being leadership and control required for a listed company.
considered as of the date of this report, with an appointment announcement expected imminently.
Re-election of Directors All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years, The committees terms of reference include, among other things: and at each annual general meeting one third retire by rotation.
Directors who are appointed by the Board retire at the next annual general meeting monitoring the scope and results of the external audit: so that they may be re-elected by shareholders, in accordance with the the review of interim and annual results: Articles of Association.
the involvement of the external auditors in those processes: review of whistle blowing procedures: Independent Advice considering compliance with legal requirements: The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of accounting standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial Authority: and advice at the companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable advising the Board on the requirement to maintain an effective system them to do so.
Indemnification of Directors The committee also keeps under review: In accordance with the companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, directors are granted an the independence and objectivity of the group's external auditors: indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of value for money of the audit: and their office.
In respect of those matters for which the directors may not be the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services indemnified, the company maintained a directors and officers liability provided by the auditors.
insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither the companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proven to have The committee has authority over the appointment, remuneration and acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
resignation or dismissal of the company's auditors.
24 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Report The committee meets at least four times a year, and always prior to the Mr. Webb fulfilled the key requirements for the role and recommended his announcement of interim or annual results.
The external auditors and Chief appointment to the Board.
Financial Officer attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by the committee is available for it to operate Remuneration Committee effectively.
The entire committee also meets each quarter with the external The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together auditors without any executive directors present.
with a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set out below: The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the Attended external auditors regarding independence.
Non-audit work is generally put Meetings out to tender.
In most cases, the company engages another independent Barry Ariko, Chairman..................................................... 3 3 firm of accountants to perform tax consulting work to avoid the possibility John McMonigall............................................................. 3 3 that the auditors' objectivity and independence could be compromised: Richard Perle.................................................................. 3 3 work is only carried out by the auditors in cases where they are best suited to perform the work, for example, tax compliance.
The company does not In addition to scheduled meetings, there are a number of ad hoc meetings award general consulting work to the auditors.
However, from time to time, to deal with specific matters.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration the company will engage the auditors on matters relating to acquisition Committee include: accounting and due diligence.
In these circumstances, the Chief Financial Officer seeks approval from the committee.
determining, on behalf of the Board, the companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and the senior Nominations Committee management team of the company: The members of the Nominations Committee during the year, together with determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals, a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible including any compensation on termination of office: and to attend, are set out below: appointing any consultants in respect of executive directors remuneration.
Attended Meetings A full description of the responsibility and operation of the remuneration Richard Perle, Chairman................................................. 1 1 committee is set out in the remuneration report beginning on page 27.
In addition clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue to meetings there are a number of ad hoc meetings to address specific with investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The Investor Relations programme includes: The Nominations Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board formal presentations of full year and interim results: comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders after results, to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nominations ensure that the investor community receives a balanced and complete Committee: view of the groups performance and the issues faced by the group: regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the Chief makes recommendations to the Board on board composition and Executive and the Chief Financial Officer to discuss business balance: performance: proposes to the Board new appointments of executive and nonhosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management executive directors: and from deliver presentations which provide an overview of business and identifies and nominates for approval candidates to fill Board vacancies operations: as and when they arise.
attendance by senior executives at relevant meetings and conferences throughout the year: Nominations are based on the balance of skills, knowledge and experience responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through the on the Board.
The committee also reviews the time required from a noncompanys Investor Relations team: and executive director.
The committee strives to consider candidates from a a section dedicated to shareholders on the companys website, wide range of backgrounds, also taking into account what skills and www.
expertise are needed on the Board in the future.
In conducting its duties the committee may seek external advice.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders In 2009 the committee made one recommendation for Board candidacy.
on matters such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who The process adopted in Mr. Webbs appointment was that Mr. Webb was makes himself available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
proposed as a candidate to the Nominations Committee, which had responsibility to make recommendations on the appointment of a new The senior independent director and other members of the Board are also chairman.
In accordance with the Nomination Committee's terms of available to meet major investors on request on relevant topics.
The senior reference, the committee reviewed Mr. Webbs candidacy against that of independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to other Non-Executive Director candidates, including Mr. Webbs ability to shareholders who have concerns, for whom contact with the Chairman, devote the appropriate amount of time to the role, and concluded that, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has either failed to resolve their given the skill set and experience of each of the Non-Executive Directors, concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Corporate Governance Report The principal communication with private investors is via the annual report director, together with periodic meetings of executive directors and and through the AGM, an occasion which is attended by relevant available senior management.
directors and at which all shareholders present are given the opportunity to ask questions.
After the AGM, shareholders can meet informally with Finance Management.
The finance department operates within directors.
Investors are also invited to submit questions via the companys policies approved by the directors and the Chief Financial Officer.
website with relevant answers posted on the website for all to read.
Expenditures are tightly controlled with stringent approvals required based on amount.
Duties such as legal, finance, sales and operations A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given at are also strictly segregated to minimize risk.
the AGM before the meeting chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
All substantive resolutions at the companys AGMs are decided Insurance.
Insurance cover is provided externally and depends on the on a poll.
The poll is conducted by the companys registrars and scale of the risk in question and the availability of cover in the external scrutinised by the Company Secretary.
The proxy votes cast in relation to market.
all resolutions, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are published on the Internal Audit companys website and announced via the regulatory news service.
As the company has grown during 2009 the Board has discussed matters Financial and other information is made available on the companys relating to internal control and the present need to establish an internal website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
In 2009 new senior managers were hired responsible for internal reviews.
The company has in the past and continues to maintain extensive internal reporting functions and internal controls and significant Internal Control executive director involvement in all aspects of the companys business The Board is responsible for the companys system of internal control and affairs.
No material breaches of internal controls were identified during for reviewing its effectiveness with regard to achieving the companys 2009. business objectives and enhancing shareholder value.
Such a system is designed to manage the risk of failure, and by its nature can provide only Review of Effectiveness reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, loss.
The system has been in place throughout the year and up to the date including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk of these financial statements.
The Board regularly reviews the management, in accordance with the Combined Code for 2009 through to effectiveness of the companys internal control systems, including financial, the date of this report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified operational and compliance controls and risk management, and believes during this review.
However, had there been any such failings or the system is in accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance.
These weaknesses, the Board confirms that necessary actions would have been reviews are principally based on reports from management to consider taken to remedy them.
whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a Significant Risks The company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and specific assessment for purposes of this Annual Report using the standard of care applicable to directors in the exercise of their duties.
The directors managing the significant risks faced by the company that has been in place consider that its internal controls, particularly given the companys size and for 2009 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial the nature of the companys business operations, provide reasonable but statements.
Principal controls are managed by the executive directors and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
key employees, including regular review by management and the Board of the operations and the financial statements of the company.
The main elements of internal control currently include: Key Risks Operating Controls.
The identification and mitigation of major business Matters relating to key risks are discussed on page 13. risks on a daily basis is the responsibility of the executive directors and senior management.
Each business function within the company By order of the Board, maintains controls and procedures, as directed by senior management, appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to the companys standards and guidelines.
These include procedures and guidelines to identify, evaluate the likelihood and mitigate all types of Andrew M. Kanter risks on an ongoing basis.
Company Secretary 22 February 2010 Information and Communication.
The companys operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting financial and nonfinancial information to the directors.
Financial projections, including revenue and profit forecasts, are reported on a regular basis to senior management against corresponding figures for previous periods.
The central process for evaluating and managing non-financial risks is weekly meetings of business functions, each involving at least one 26 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
