AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Chairman held a number of meetings with the Group Head of Business The Audit Committee is responsible for: Risk and Assurance and with the external auditors, all without manageThe integrity of the financial statements of the Company and ment being present.
any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE contained therein: DURING THE YEAR Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and, unless At its meeting in February, the Committee reviewed the annual finanexpressly addressed by the Board itself, the Companys internal cial statements of the Company and received reports from the internal control and risk management systems: auditors on internal control matters and from the external auditors on Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of audit function: judgment and the financial statements and their comments on stateReviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for monitoring ments concerning risk and internal control.
A similar review was underthe conduct of the audit: taken at its July meeting when the interim statements were considered.
Reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity and At these and its other meetings the Committee also reviewed: the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration An evaluation of its work carried out as part of the Board evaluation relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: process referred to on page 48, and reported to the Board on this Reviewing the Companys policy on the engagement of the external evaluation: auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant The Committees terms of reference: no changes were recommended guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by an to the Board: external audit firm: Any comments received on its 2008 report from institutional investor Making a recommendation to the Board, for a resolution to be put bodies: to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation The effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and the to the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
system for monitoring and reporting on risks faced by the Group: The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, The strategy, staffing, processes and effectiveness of the internal identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or audit department and recommended to the Board minor changes to improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps the terms of reference of that department: to be taken.
The work carried out by the internal audit department and its The Committees full terms of reference are available on the external advisor, Grant Thornton, to monitor risks specifically related Companys website, or on request to the Company Secretary.
to information technology: The status of actions taken in response to recommendations arising COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE from internal and external audit work: Chris Bunker was Chairman and John Coleman was a member of The operation of the Groups whistleblowing policy: the Committee throughout 2009.
Andrew Simon was a member until The policy on engagement of the external auditor for non-audit work, 29 June 2009 when he was replaced by Philip Jansen.
All members as referred to below, and its policy on the employment of anyone of the Committee are considered to be independent.
The Company previously employed by the external auditor: Secretary, Andrew Pike, is secretary to the Committee.
The Board The plans presented by the external auditor for conduct of the considers that Chris Bunker has the recent and relevant financial year-end audit including terms of engagement, fees and letters of experience required by the Combined Code see also the Board representation: profiles on pages 44 and 45.
The effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into account written assurances provided by Deloitte MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE LLP with regard to its quality and independence controls, and its The Committee met five times during 2009 to consider inter alia, the ethical standards: annual and interim results.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page The Groups accounting policies, forthcoming changes to International 47.
The Chairman of the Committee also invited the Group Chairman, Financial Reporting Standards and other regulatory changes and the Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group Financial various guidance notes issued by the Financial Reporting Council: Controller, the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance and the The Groups policies and processes for fraud prevention: external auditors to attend four of the meetings.
When present, the The Groups tax planning.
external auditors and the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance were given the opportunity to talk with the Committee without the EXTERNAL AUDITORS presence of management.
In addition, during the year, the Committee The Company places great importance on the effectiveness and A U D I T C O M M I T T E E R E P O R T 49 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 independence of its external auditors and together with them is careful Value of Work to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
At its November meeting, Non audit services require approval as follows: the auditors presented to the Committee their plans for the forthcoming Up to 5,000 no formal approval required provided the work is audit together with details of their proposed fees and how they ensure permitted under the list referred to above: that their objectivity and independence are not compromised.
5,000 to 25,000 Group Finance Director: Deloitte LLP or its predecessor firms a leading international audit 25,000 to 50,000 Group Finance Director and Committee partnership, was first appointed as auditor to Group companies more Chairman: than 30 years ago.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group 50,000 and above Group Finance Director and Committee with regard to their appointment.
In accordance with professional stanChairman following a competitive tender.
dards, the partner responsible for the audit is changed every 5 years, Formal Committee approval is also required if the aggregated level and will change in 2010. of forecast fees for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the statutory Following its February 2010 meeting, the Committee recommended audit fee.
to the Board that a resolution be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the external auditors, and to Reporting authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
The Group Finance Director reports twice yearly to the Committee on It is the role of the Committee to ensure compliance with the Boards fees for non-audit services payable to the auditors.
policy in respect of services provided by, and fees paid to, the auditors.
During the year the Auditors were paid 414,311 for work they were Audit fees, which are regularly compared with peer companies by the required by the Listing Rules to undertake in respect of the Groups Committee, are negotiated by the Finance Director and approved by rights issue.
Other non-audit related fees paid to the Auditor totalled the Audit Committee.
The policy in relation to other services that could 107,834 2008: 487,300. be provided by the external auditors was revised during the year.
The revised policy, which was subsequently approved by the Board, can be INTERNAL AUDIT summarised as follows: As well as its reviews of the internal audit departments strategy and processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2009, the Committee received presentations from the Group Head of Business General Principles Risk and Assurance, about the results of work undertaken by the There is a presumption against the external auditors providing nondepartment, and approved its plans for work in 2010.
The Committee audit services and they should only be selected for such work where was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the department.
its nature makes it more timely and cost effective to select advisors who have a good understanding of the Group or the work is of OVERVIEW a particularly confidential or specialist nature.
The external auditors As a result of its work during the year, and taking into account the result should not provide non-audit services where either the nature of the of the Board and Committee evaluation process described on page 48, work or the extent of such services might impair their independence or the Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its objectivity.
Any assignment to the external auditors of non-audit work terms of reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity and with a fee over 25,000 requires the approval of the Chairman of the effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Areas of Work The policy lists certain non-audit services where it would be usual to engage the auditors, such as regulatory reviews and certain tax services, and those where their engagement is not permitted, such as work that would conflict with ethical guidance to auditors, or work relating to the design of financial information systems.
The Committee Chris Bunker Chairman is consulted in relation to any proposed work not covered Chairman, Audit Committee by the list.
