NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 The principal role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and In January, the Committee began a process to find a new Chairmannominate for Board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies as and designate, to succeed Tim Stevenson who planned to step down when they arise.
It is required to prepare a description of the role, and during 2010.
This process was chaired by Chris Bunker, as Senior capabilities required, for any appointment, and to maintain contact with Independent Director, and following consultation with major major shareholders about appointments to the Board.
It also keeps shareholders, Robert Walker was appointed in September.
the structure, size and composition of the Board under review, and For both of these appointments, the Committee members and other considers succession planning for both executive and non-executive directors had the opportunity to contribute to the specification for the directors and for other senior executive posts.
The terms of reference post and to meet with candidates.
During the process all directors of the Committee are available on the Companys website or from the were kept fully informed about the progress of the recruitment.
cases, the Committee was assisted in its search by executive recruitDuring the year, the Committee members were Tim Stevenson ment consultants, Russell Reynolds Associates.
Chairman, together with Chris Bunker, and John Coleman, both of The Chairman of the Nominations Committee will be available at whom are independent non-executive directors.
the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work Although the Committee did not meet formally during 2009, a large of the Committee.
number of discussions were held between Committee members, in relation to two appointments: In the early part of the year, the Committee completed its search for a new non-executive director to replace Mike Dearden, who retired Tim Stevenson in November 2008, and this resulted in the appointment of Philip Chairman, Nominations Committee Jansen in April: 23 February 2010 64 N O M I N A T I O N S C O M M I T T E E R E P O R T 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
