CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 COMBINED CODE if necessary.
The Company maintains directors & officers insurance in The London Stock Exchange first issued the Combined Code on respect of the risk of claims against directors.
Corporate Governance the Code in 1998 and it was revised most The Board has an induction process for new directors, which is recently in June 2008.
Section 1 of the Code is applicable to compafacilitated by the Company Secretary.
The Chairman ensures that nies.
A statement explaining how the Company has applied the prinall directors receive appropriate training on appointment and then ciples and the extent to which it has complied with the provisions of subsequently as required, taking into account the need to update their the Code appears below.
The Code contains fourteen main principles of skills and their knowledge of the Companys business.
They are also governance, which are divided into the following four areas: regularly provided with information on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance developments, and briefings 1.
Directors on the key risks facing the Company, including those identified in the The Company is controlled through a board of directors, which presently Corporate Responsibility statement on page 46. comprises the Chairman, three executive and five non-executive direcThe Board has established five committees: the Audit Committee, the tors.
Tim Stevenson is Chairman and Geoff Cooper is Chief Executive.
Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Health and Chris Bunker is the Senior Independent Director.
John Coleman, Philip Safety Committee and the Executive Committee, which operate within Jansen who was appointed on 9 April 2009, Andrew Simon and Robert defined terms of reference, which are available on the Companys Walker who was appointed on 30 September 2009 are also independent website or may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
It is intended that Tim Stevenson will retire from of committee meetings are available to all the directors.
The reports the board after the AGM on 17 May, and that Robert Walker will succeed of the Audit Committee, Health & Safety Committee, Remuneration him as Chairman.
Appointments of new directors are made by the Board Committee and Nominations Committee are on pages 49 and 50, 51 on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
All directors will and 52, 53 to 63 and 64 respectively.
submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Executive Committee members are listed on page 44.
Other The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets executives are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific at least ten times a year.
It is responsible for overall group strategy, matters.
The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist the execupolicy on corporate governance matters, acquisition policy, approval tive directors in the performance of their duties in relation in particular to: of major capital expenditure and consideration of significant financial Strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: and operational matters.
It monitors the exposure to key business The monitoring of operational and financial performance: risks and reviews the strategy of the trading subsidiaries, their annual The assessment and control of risk: budgets and progress towards the achievement of those budgets and The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
It also considers legislative, The number of board and committee meetings attended by each environmental, health and safety and employment issues.
The Board director in whole or in part during the year was as follows: has approved a written statement of the division of key responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring that each director is able to make an effective contribution.
He also monitors the information provided to the Board to ensure it is sufficient, timely and clear, and No.
of meetings 11 5 9 - 2 11 from time to time, the Board reviews the adequacy of this information.
Attendances The Board held eleven meetings during 2009, one of which was by C. J. Bunker 10 5 8 - - - conference telephone call.
One meeting dealt with consideration of the Companys long-term strategy and 5 meetings either included visits to J. P. Carter 10 2 - - 2 11 parts of the Companys operations or included presentations by senior J. Coleman 11 5 9 - - - executives on their areas of responsibility.
I. Cooper 11 - 6 - - 11 tional sites by non-executive directors also occurred.
In addition to the regular board meetings, key financial information is circulated to direcP.
N. Hampden Smith 11 4 1 - - 11 tors outside of meetings.
The Chairman has regular direct contact with 1 P. Jansen 6 1 - - - - the executive directors and keeps the non-executive directors informed 2 A. H. Simon 11 - 8 - 2 - of material developments between board meetings.
The Chairman T. E. P. Stevenson 11 5 9 - 2 - held two meetings during the year with all the non-executive directors, without the executive directors being present.
3 R. Walker 2 - 2 - - - All directors have direct access to the Company Secretary and may 1 Appointed to the Board April 2009 and to the Audit Committee June 2009.
2 Stood down from Audit Committee in June 2009.
3 Appointed to the Board September 2009. take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E 47 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Executive If a director was unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed by the Board in a committee of which he is a member, the Chairman discussed the process that accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board and the meeting papers with him to obtain his views prior to the meeting.
Executive Committee receive regular reports on specific areas of risk.
If During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its performance appropriate, these reports include recommendations for improvement and the performance of its committees and the individual directors.
in controls or for the management of those risks.
Measures to integrate This consisted of interviews by the Chairman with each other director risk management processes into the Groups operations, to extend and the Company Secretary separately, focussing on the operation of awareness of the importance of risk management and to ensure that the Board and, its committees and in particular on those matters identirecommended improvements are implemented, are regularly reviewed fied in 2008 where measures were taken to enhance performance.
Senior executives are asked, twice a year, to confirm the These interviews formed the basis of a report by the Chairman that was adequacy of internal controls in their areas of responsibility, identify any the subject of a discussion by the Board, which was satisfied that the control weaknesses, and to confirm the accuracy and completeness of process showed that the Board and its committees worked effectively.
information given to the directors and to the external auditors.
However, it agreed a number of measures, in particular relating to the In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried out presentation of board business, the format of its meetings, and the an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of internal process for its consideration of risks faced by the Group, aimed at control and risk management procedures, during the year and up until further enhancing its performance.
A board evaluation process will be the date of approval of this annual report.
Directors Remuneration The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 49 and 50.
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Chairman and three independent non-executive directors, and meets at least four times a year.
Relations with Shareholders Its responsibilities include remuneration policy, a review of the perforThe Company encourages two-way communication with both its mance of executive directors prior to determining their remuneration institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiand the approval of incentive arrangements, including performance ries received.
During the year the Chairman, the Senior Independent criteria.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined Director and the executive directors, either separately or together, by the Board as a whole, except that the Remuneration Committee attended a number of meetings with analysts, and with shareholders makes a recommendation in respect of the Chairmans salary.
No representing circa 60% of the issued share capital.
The Chairman and director plays a part in the discussion about his own remuneration.
executive directors report to the Board on any meetings with shareThe Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 63. holders or analysts.
In addition, written reports about the Company by analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
Accountability and Audit As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, during the year, A review of the performance of the Groups trading subsidiaries and the Company published its interim results on its website, issued two the financial position of the Group is included in the Chief Executives interim management statements and sent a circular to shareholders in review of the year, in the Chief Operating Officers review of the year May 2009 concerning its rights issue.
All shareholders receive at least and in the Finance Directors review of the year set out on pages 10 to twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all 43.
The Board uses them, together with the Chairmans statement on directors are available for questions and a short business presentation pages 8 and 9 to present a full assessment of the Companys position takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resoluand prospects.
The Directors responsibilities for the financial statetion.
The numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution are ments are described on page 70. announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and are subsequently published on the Companys website.
INTERNAL CONTROL GOING CONCERN The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control This matter is dealt with on page 38 of the Finance Directors review and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In designing the system of internal of the year.
control, consideration is given to the significant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE effective means of controlling them.
The system is designed to manage STATEMENT rather than eliminate risk and therefore can only provide reasonable, The Company is pleased to report that it has complied throughout the and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
year ended 31 December 2009 with the provisions set out in Section The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control has been 1 of the Code.
delegated to executive directors and senior management, but the 48 C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
