Trinity Mirror plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Directors governance and recognises the importance of good corporate There are currently eight directors: Chairman, Sir Ian Gibson: Chief governance.
Sound governance is central to achieving the directors Executive, Sly Bailey: Senior Independent Director, Gary Hoffman: prime objective of maximising shareholder value and comprises, two other executive directors: and three other non-executive directors.
principally, the processes by which the Group is directed and The directors biographies are set out on pages 38 and 39 and managed, risks are identified and controlled.
illustrate the directors breadth of experience, which should ensure This statement, together with the Remuneration report on pages an effective Board to lead and direct the Group.
47 to 52, the Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 43 to 45 The Chairman and the non-executive directors have letters of and the Directors report set out on pages 53 to 55, describes how appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office the Company has applied the relevant principles of the June 2008 of the Company during normal business hours and at the place of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as issued by the Financial Annual General Meeting.
Reporting Council FRC Combined Code.
The Board believes that the Company complied with the FRC Combined Code in full during The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of the period ended 3 January 2010. three years and may be invited to serve subsequent terms.
Before a non-executive director is proposed for re-election by shareholders at the end of their initial term, the Nomination Committee meets to The Board consider whether his or her performance continues to be effective The Board is responsible for promoting the success of the Company and whether they demonstrate a commitment to the role.
and for providing leadership within a framework of prudent and During the year, the Chairman and non-executive directors met effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed and without the executive directors being present.
The non-executive is accountable for the Groups operations.
directors meet without the Chairman being present at least once The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it which a year to review the performance of the Chairman.
includes: In accordance with the FRC Combined Code and the Companys the Groups strategic plans: articles of association, every director is subject to reappointment by acquisitions or disposals: shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment and capital expenditure: subsequently must seek re-election at least once every three years.
all financing matters: The Board meets regularly and a schedule of attendance is shown the annual budget and the review of operating and below in respect of all Board and committee meetings during financial performance: the year.
annual and half-year financial results and interim management statements: Table of attendance of meetings Board and Company Secretary appointments: Audit directors conflicts of interest: and & Risk Remuneration Nomination dividend policy.
Board Committee Committee Committee AGM Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees, Sly Bailey 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 1 each of which has clear written terms of reference.
The terms Sir Ian Gibson 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 1 of reference for the Audit & Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are available on Gary Hoffman 8 9 3 3 3 4 2 2 1 1 the Companys website at www.
com our-company Jane Lighting 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 1 corporate-governance.
Kathleen ODonovan 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 1 Chairman and Chief Executive Vijay Vaghela 9 9 3 3 1 1 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separated and Paul Vickers 9 9 3 3 4 4 1 1 their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Laura Wade-Gery 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 1 Company Secretary Of the nine scheduled Board meetings, two were held at operating All directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary sites in Birmingham and Cardiff during the year.
and Group Legal Director, Paul Vickers, who is responsible for Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and all ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules are observed directors participate in the discussion of strategy, trading, financial and in the furtherance of their duties directors may take independent performance and risk management.
Board papers are circulated professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
in sufficient time before a meeting to enable full and informed The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good discussion.
Members of the wider Executive Committee attend information flows to the Board and its committees and between Board meetings by invitation and make presentations regularly.
senior management and the non-executive directors.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200941 The Board has considered and agreed that Sir Ian Gibson who is Training standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting continues to An assessment is made of any training needs on a directors perform effectively and demonstrate commitment as a non-executive appointment and the appropriate training is provided.
New directors director and Chairman.
Sir Ian Gibsons biographical details can be are provided with background reading about the Group and details found on page 38. of Board procedures and other governance-related matters.
A full and individually tailored induction programme is provided for all new directors.
Board performance evaluation The Board has adopted a policy of engaging with external evaluation Directors receive ongoing updates on relevant issues as appropriate, every third year.
In 2008, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
assisted with performance evaluation for the Board.
This year, the The Board visited the Birmingham and Cardiff sites during the year Board participated in a formal evaluation of its own performance to gain a deeper insight into the Groups operating environment.
and that of its committees and individual directors by using an internal The Company Secretary helps directors undertake any other questionnaire devised by Dr Long.
The results were presented and professional development they consider necessary to assist them discussed at a Board meeting as part of a wider corporate in carrying out their duties.
The review covered the roles and processes of the Board and its committees.
Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its committees continued to operate effectively with Director independence appropriate procedures in place and actions are being taken to The Board believes that all its non-executive directors are independent.
address each of the matters raised by the evaluation.
The Board believes that the Chairman was independent at the date of his appointment.
The Chairman has declared to the Company Directors indemnity and insurance his other significant commitment, which is his Chairmanship of As approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc.
The Board believes that he in 2008, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a devotes sufficient time to the Company to properly and fully fulfil qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 his responsibilities.
Gary Hoffman was, until October 2008, Group Vice Chairman of The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability Barclays and an Executive Director of Barclays plc.
Although the insurance for its directors and officers.
Company has connections with Barclays, the Company does not believe that this former connection affects Mr Hoffmans independence given the relationships were in areas outside of Committee membership his direct control.
Following a corporate governance review the Board has agreed that all non-executive directors should serve as members of the The Board has considered the effect of Paul Vickerss roles as Audit & Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board an executive director and Company Secretary and believes that believes that an increasing amount of work is undertaken by these Mr Vickers is able to maintain independence where required.
Committees and that a non-executive director can only properly The Chairman reviews Mr Vickerss performance regularly and fulfil his or her responsibilities if they are present during committee appropriate procedures are in place enabling him to perform meetings and are able to follow the detail of discussion and debate and fulfil his duties accordingly.
Similarly the Chairman, in addition to chairing the Nomination Committee, is a full member of the Remuneration Directors conflicts Committee and attends meetings of the Audit & Risk Committee at The Board adopted a formal Conflicts Policy in October 2008 which the invitation of its Chairman.
provides a formal system for directors to declare conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest Shareholder communications in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a The Company encourages two way communication with both its potential or actual conflict, the non-conflicted directors are required institutional and private investors and responds quickly to all queries to act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the received orally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and the Group success of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional when giving authorisation or subsequently if appropriate.
At the Annual General Meeting all directors, including The Board has applied the Conflicts Policy throughout 2009 and the committee Chairmen, are available for questions.
In addition, on relevant procedures for authorisation of potential or actual conflicts notification of a new substantial shareholder in the Company, have been followed.
the Chairman will write to the shareholder to offer a meeting.
The Chairman met with a number of major shareholders during In addition to the availability of the Register of Conflicts at each the year.
Board meeting for review, an annual review has been conducted and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts The Board receive regular detailed reports on investor relations of interest on a regular basis in accordance with the Conflicts Policy activities and any related issues concerning major shareholders.
Twice a year, the Director of Corporate Communications, who also runs the Companys investor relations programme, produces a formal Re-election of directors report for the Board giving details of comment and feedback received The Companys Articles of Association require all directors to from analysts and institutional investors.
He is present during the seek re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
Board discussion of this report.
Communication is also made In addition, any directors appointed by the Board must stand for through the Companys website which is regularly updated.
re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Any non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
Financials Go Gov ver erna nan nc ce e B Bu us siine ness ss r re ev vie iew w Who we are Trinity Mirror plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate governance Audit & Risk Committee Corporate governance compliance statement The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by Kathleen ODonovan.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year with the Gary Hoffman, Jane Lighting and Laura Wade-Gery are members.
provisions set out in the FRC Combined Code.
The Committee meets as required during the year to monitor, review Going concern basis and approve the internal audit plan, direct the internal audit function and external auditors and to oversee the management of internal In accordance with LR 9.8.
6 3 of the Listing Rules, and in determining financial controls and risk management systems.
whether the Groups annual consolidated financial statements can be prepared on a going concern basis, the directors considered The Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 43 to 45 contains a factors likely to affect future development, performance and financial more detailed description of the Committees role, responsibilities, position, including cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities activities and effectiveness during the year.
and the risks and uncertainties relating to business activities.
These The Group Finance Director, other directors, the Groups external are set out in the Chairman and Chief Executive Statement on pages auditors, internal auditors and other management, as appropriate, 16 to 19, the Business Review on pages 20 to 30 and in the notes to attend meetings of the Committee.
the consolidated financial statements, in particular notes 27, 28, 29 and 36.
The key factors considered by the directors were as follows: The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are published on the Companys website.
the implications of the challenging economic environment on the Groups revenues and profits.
The Group undertakes forecasts and projections of trading and cash flows on a regular basis.
This is Remuneration Committee essential for targeting performance and identifying areas of focus The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Jane Lighting who for management to improve performance and mitigate the possible was appointed in July 2009 in place of Gary Hoffman.
Gary Hoffman adverse impact of a deteriorating economic outlook and also remains a member of the Committee.
Other members of the provides projections of working capital requirements: Committee are: Sir Ian Gibson, Kathleen ODonovan and Laura Wade-Gery.
the impact of the competitive environment within which the Groups businesses operate.
In particular, the Nationals operate in a highly The Committee meets as required during the year to review the competitive marketplace characterised by high levels of marketing Companys general policy on executive remuneration, the application expenditure and cover price discounting: of the policy to the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors, and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of the impact on our business of key suppliers in particular newsprint remuneration for senior management.
being unable to meet their obligations to the Group: The Remuneration report on pages 47 to 52 contains a more detailed the impact on our business of key customers being unable to meet description of the Companys policies and procedures for executive their obligations for services provided by the Group: remuneration.
During the year, as appropriate, the Chief Executive the continued fragmentation of media and the implications for and the Secretary and Group Legal Director have attended meetings our business: of the Committee but they do not participate in discussions on their own remuneration.
the potential actions that could be taken in the event that revenues are worse than expected, to ensure that operating profit and cash The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are flows are protected: and published on the Companys website.
the committed finance facilities available to the Group.
The Group has access to overdraft facilities and a committed bank facility to Nomination Committee meet day-to-day working capital requirements, which at the year The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
All the end had undrawn facilities of 178.5 million.
The bank facility non-executive directors and the Chief Executive are members.
is committed to June 2013 and drawings can be made with 24 hours notice.
The Committee meets as required to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment Having considered the factors impacting the Groups businesses, as directors.
The Committee would normally expect to use the including downside sensitivities, the directors are satisfied that the services of professional external headhunters to help in the search Group will be able to operate within the terms and conditions of for and selection of candidates and has followed this practice for the Group financing facilities for the foreseeable future.
The Group all current directors.
continues to operate comfortably within its debt covenants and does not expect to have to refinance or renegotiate its facilities during the The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are next 12 months.
published on the Companys website.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company Administration Committee and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to The Administration Committee consists of the Chief Executive, Group adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups Annual Finance Director and Secretary and Group Legal Director and meets Report and Accounts.
as necessary to deal with administrative matters of a day to day nature.
Paul Vickers Accountability and operating and Secretary and Group Legal Director financial review 4 March 2010 Through the reviews of the performance and financial position in the Chairman and Chief Executive statement on pages 16 to 19 and the Business review on pages 20 to 30 together with the Directors report on pages 53 to 55, the Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is set out on page 55.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200943 Audit & Risk Committee report During the year the Board formally reviewed the remit of the Audit & review the Companys internal financial control system and risk Risk Committee having recognised that an increasing amount of its management system: work involved the consideration of risk and risk management.
Following monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: this review amended terms of reference were adopted in October review and approve the remit of the internal audit function and 2009 and the Committee was renamed Audit & Risk Committee.
ensure the function has the necessary resources and is able to The Committee has identified its Chairman, Kathleen ODonovan, meet appropriate professional standards for internal auditors: as its primary member with recent and relevant financial experience.
review and approve the internal audit plan: and Kathleen is a Chartered Accountant and was a partner at Ernst & Young.
She was for 12 years the Finance Director of BTR plc approve the appointment or termination of the Director of Risk subsequently Invensys.
During 2009 she was the Chairman of the and Audit who is responsible for internal audit with the agreement Audit Committees of Prudential plc and Great Portland Estates plc.
of the Committee this approval may be delegated to the Committee Chairman.
Gary Hoffman also has considerable experience of the financial services industry having spent 26 years with the Barclays group.
The Committee receives any required information from management He was Group Vice Chairman of Barclays plc and is currently Chief in a timely manner and in formats which are comprehensible and Executive of Northern Rock plc.
sufficient to fulfil its responsibilities to shareholders and investors alike.
Jane Lighting and Laura Wade-Gery each have extensive commercial The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal experience.
Jane was Chief Executive of both Flextech plc and of the audit activities, internal controls and risk management systems.
Laura is Chief Executive of Tesco.
com and is The Committee has considered that the appropriate systems are a director of Tesco Bank.
in place, are adequate and are operating properly.
The Committee has access to a risk map which details the key risks, an assessment The Group Finance Director, other directors, the Groups external of the impact on the business and probability of occurrence and auditors, internal auditors and other management, as appropriate, management actions.
It is a valuable source of information for attend meetings of the Committee.
During 2009, principal risks were identified by impact and During the Board performance evaluation in 2009, the Board probability.
Further information can be found on pages 44 and 45 reviewed the composition and balance of the Committee and it is under the headings Internal Control and Risk Management.
satisfied that the appropriate and relevant expertise and resources The internal audit function focuses on enhancing the Groups internal are available to effectively fulfil the accounting, audit and risk issues controls.
It has a rolling programme of review which is approved by it has to address during the year.
The terms of reference provide the Committee.
The Director of Risk and Audit is highly qualified authorisation for obtaining independent external advice at the and has extensive experience of working at a senior level in large Companys expense.
Following a review of the Committees terms of reference, The website and the Companys intranet also carry details of the Charmian Steven, former Head of Internal Audit, was promoted to the Companys whistleblower policy, which has been approved and role of Director of Risk and Audit.
The Committee members are also members of the Remuneration The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Committee.
The Committee believes that the Companys remuneration policy is adequate for a group of this size and nature monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and that compensation policies and practices are appropriate including its annual and half-year financial results, interim management for maintaining a robust control environment and do not put the statements and any other formal announcement relating to its Company at risk.
financial performance, reviewing significant financial returns to regulators and any financial information contained in certain other documents, such as announcements of a price sensitive nature: review significant financial reporting issues and judgements: recommend to the Board the appointment of the external auditor and approve their remuneration and terms of engagement: monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness including considering relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: develop and implement policy on non-audit services from the external auditors, taking into account relevant ethical guidance: review the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers: Financials Governance Business review Who we are Trinity Mirror plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate governance External auditors independence and non-audit work Internal control The Committee has primary responsibility for making The directors are responsible for the Groups established system recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
During the year of the external auditors.
the Board has not been advised of any failings or weaknesses which were deemed to be significant.
No system of internal control can The Committee recommended the reappointment of Deloitte LLP provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
as external auditors following the annual external audit effectiveness review where the Committee concluded that the audit was fit for Such a system is designed to provide the directors with reasonable purpose.
Deloitte LLP audits all significant subsidiaries of the Group.
assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key procedures that have been established The current overall tenure of Deloitte LLP dates from 1999. and designed to provide effective internal financial control are: Any decision to open the external auditor to tender is taken on the recommendation of the Committee based on the results of the Management and organisational structure the existing effectiveness review described below.
There are no contractual organisational structure is considered appropriate to the size of the obligations that restrict the Companys choice of external auditor.
This clearly identifies levels of delegated responsibility to operational management.
The performance of senior management The external audit effectiveness review which was carried out by the is regularly evaluated and individual employees responsibilities are Committee, with the help of the Director of Risk and Audit, dealt with clearly defined and communicated.
external auditor independence, planning, expertise and resources, audit process and communication.
The review was in the form of Financial reporting part of the comprehensive management an extensive questionnaire which was sent to directors and senior reporting discipline involves the preparation of detailed annual managers across the Group.
The results were analysed by the budgets by all operating units.
These budgets are reviewed by Director of Risk and Audit and a full report was submitted for review the Executive Committee and are ultimately summarised and by the Committee.
There were no adverse findings.
The report as submitted to the Board for approval.
Weekly revenue and profit a whole was discussed with the external auditors.
forecasts are received from all operating units followed by monthly management accounts, which are prepared promptly and reported The Committee is satisfied that there are no relationships such against the approved budget.
Consolidated monthly management as family, employment, investment, financial or business between accounts, including detailed profit analysis with comparisons to the auditor and the Company other than in the ordinary course budget, latest forecasts, prior year and consensus market opinion of business.
together with a treasury report including comparison to our financial Private meetings were held with Deloitte LLP to ensure there were no covenants are prepared providing relevant, reliable and up to date restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items that financial and other information to the Board.
Profit and cash flow the auditors did not wish to raise with the executive directors present.
forecasts for the current year are prepared and submitted to the Board at quarterly intervals during the year.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the engagement letter from Deloitte LLP confirming their independence and objectivity.
It also Investment appraisal we have a clearly defined framework reviewed the scope of non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP for capital expenditure which is controlled centrally.
Appropriate to ensure that there was no impairment of objectivity.
authorisation levels and limits beyond which such expenditure requires the prior approval of the Capex Committee, consisting The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees payable in respect of the three executive directors and the Director of Group IT, or of audit services is appropriate for a group of its size and that an in certain circumstances, the Board, are clearly set.
There is a effective audit was conducted during 2009.
Further details prescribed format for capital expenditure applications which places concerning external audit fees can be found in note 6 to the a high emphasis on the overall Group strategy or support for the consolidated financial statements.
expenditure and requires a comprehensive and justified financial The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation appraisal of the business case being put forward.
All significant on a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply corporate acquisitions or investments are controlled by the Board non-audit services.
The policy has been adopted by the Board or a Board sub-committee, and are subject to detailed investment and as a general rule the auditor will not be engaged to provide appraisal and performance of due diligence procedures prior to any additional services other than tax or accountancy advice and approval by the Board.
There may, however, be circumstances where it Functional reporting a number of our key functions, including could be in the Companys and shareholders interests if the auditor treasury, taxation, internal audit, risk management, litigation, IT was engaged.
Such circumstances are likely to be relating to either strategy and development, environmental issues and insurance are exceptional transactions or deemed not to be of a material nature.
Each of these functions reports to the Board on In all cases, the engagement of the auditor for non-audit work must a regular basis, through the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director be approved in advance by the Committee Chairman.
or Secretary and Group Legal Director, as appropriate.
The treasury In line with the FRC Combined Code requirement, the Board function operates within the terms of clearly defined policy statements.
undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its Committees during The policy statements exist to ensure that we are not exposed to any the year, including the Committee, as part of the annual review unnecessary risk and that where appropriate there is hedging against related to Board performance as described above.
foreign currency and interest rate risks.
The Committee reviews reports from management, the internal audit department and the external auditors to provide reasonable assurance that internal control procedures are in place and are being followed.
Formal procedures have been established for instituting appropriate action to correct weaknesses identified from the above reports.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200945 Risk management Risk Management Group the Risk Management Group is formed An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the of the Executive Committee together with invited senior executives.
significant risks we face has remained in place throughout the year The Secretary and Group Legal Director co-ordinates the risk and up to the date of approval of this report.
The process is subject management activities of the Risk Management Group working to regular review by the Board directly and by the Audit and Risk closely with members of the internal audit department.
objectives for the risk management framework have been achieved during the year and all significant risks have been reviewed.
A risk The process accords with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control map has been developed and regularly updated to show the actions for directors, as applicable for this accounting period.
Although taken to minimise risks throughout the Group, the policies in force the Boards overall responsibility for internal control is recognised, and the other sources of assurance upon which reliance is placed the positive contribution made by senior management to the to mitigate risk.
establishment and ongoing development of risk management within the Group is acknowledged.
Divisional and Group functional key risks to enable consistent and focused monitoring, reporting, evaluation and management In reviewing the effectiveness of our system of internal control, the of significant Group risks, the Executive Committee owner of each Board has taken into consideration a number of key elements, which key risk and the relevant senior managers have reviewed the plans, include financial controls, investment controls, management reporting actions and initiatives which have taken place or are underway and and the various review, steering, policy and Board committees.
documented them in the risk map.
The following illustrate how the risk management process and Year end compliance reporting a formal process exists for the system of internal control operated during 2009: year end risk management compliance reporting, requiring senior Audit & Risk Committee the role of the Committee includes the operating company, divisional and Group executive management review, update and approval of the annual internal audit plan, direction to confirm their responsibilities for risk management and internal to the internal audit function, to external auditors and to management control.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required of each and every in the review of internal financial controls.
The Committee alerts the Board member.
Steps have been taken to embed internal control Board to any emerging issues and considers the draft papers prepared and risk management further into the operations of the business for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk management and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention procedures adopted by the Company prior to being submitted to of management and the Board.
The Groups systems of internal the Board for approval.
control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable Group Internal Audit the Director of Risk and Audit has recruited and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
a skilled and experienced team to enable the agreed strategy to be Further relevant information is included in the Corporate responsibility fulfilled.
The internal audit plan is risk based and has a focus on those report, published on pages 31 to 37. areas which are critical to the achievement of business objectives.
Kathleen ODonovan Chairman Audit & Risk Committee 4 March 2010 Financials Governance Business review Who we are
