Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 49 Corporate Governance report The Board Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that a full, formal the Directors at the date of this report are: and tailored induction to the Company is provided.
The Company Secretary is available to answer any questions which may arise.
All Directors name Title Directors have been given a detailed Induction and Training Manual.
Horst Baier Non-Executive Director Dr Volker Bttcher Managing Director, Central Europe Board procedures responsibilities Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer The Board meets regularly, including away days, to review the strategy Tony Campbell Non-Executive Director of the Group.
The schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director decision include: determining the strategy and control of the Group: Bill Dalton Non-Executive Director amendments to the structure and capital of the Group: approval of Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director financial reporting and controls: oversight of the Groups internal Dr Michael Frenzel Non-Executive Chairman controls: approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant Jeremy Hicks Non-Executive Director size: acquisitions, disposals and share dealings: Board membership Sir Michael Hodgkinson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and appointments: approval of remuneration of Directors and certain and Senior Independent Director senior management: corporate governance matters: and approval of Peter Long Chief Executive Group policies and risk management strategies.
Johan Lundgren Managing Director, Northern Region The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Dr Erhard Schipporeit Non-Executive Director Executive is clearly established and has been agreed by the Board.
Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Director Harold Sher Non-Executive Director All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Giles Thorley Non-Executive Director Secretary and all Directors can take independent professional advice, William Waggott Commercial Director if necessary, at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
All Directors detailed above served throughout the year with the exception of Horst Baier who was appointed on 13 October 2009.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures Christoph Mueller resigned as a director on 27 May 2009. are followed including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns that Directors may have in connection with the operation of the As at 30 September 2009, the Board comprised five Executive Company.
During the year, there were no such unresolved issues.
Directors and 11 Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
On 13 October 2009 Horst Baier was appointed as a Non-Executive The Terms of Reference for the Board and its Committees are available Director.
Biographical details of all the Directors are set out on page 45. for inspection on the Groups website and will be available at the AGM.
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at intervals of Directors conflicts of interests no more than three years in accordance with the Articles of Association From 1 October 2008, the Directors became subject to a statutory and, therefore, each year one-third of the Board members will retire duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation where they by rotation.
The Directors retiring by rotation and offering themselves have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 9 February possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Directors 2010 are Dr Michael Frenzel, Tony Campbell, Clare Chapman, Rainer of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts Feuerhake and Johan Lundgren who, all being eligible, will offer where appropriate, if the articles of association contain a provision themselves for re-election.
Horst Baier, having been appointed to this effect.
since the last AGM, will also offer himself for re-election.
To enable The Company amended its articles of association in March 2008 to shareholders to make an informed decision, the 2010 Notice of the deal with, amongst other things, the provisions on conflicts of interest AGM includes additional biographical details and a statement as to in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has established formal why the Company believes the Non-Executive Directors should be procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential re-elected.
The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the conflicts, of interest which the Directors may have and for the performance of each individual continues to be effective and authorisation of such conflict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether demonstrates commitment to the role.
to authorise a conflict or potential conflict the Directors must have The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all six regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation, Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of may be reviewed at any time and will be reviewed formally by the commitment in their respective roles.
The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the Remuneration report commencing on page 53.
Directors interests Board effectiveness and individual performance of Directors in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 62.
An assessment of the performance of the Board and its individual Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Directors was commenced during the year.
The Boards effectiveness Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys was assessed by means of a detailed questionnaire which was registered office and will be available at the AGM which is scheduled designed by the Company Secretary and completed by each Director.
to take place on 9 February 2010.
The questionnaire covers 16 areas including the processes for setting the strategy of the Company, monitoring business performance, corporate governance and the effectiveness of the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and the Boards Committees.
The results were fed back to the Chairman and a full debate is scheduled to take place in the Board before the end of 2009. www.
com 50 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Corporate Governance report continued An assessment of each individual Directors performance is undertaken Meetings of the Non-Executive Directors annually.
The performance of each Director is measured against The Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors twice during the 12 criteria with peers being requested, confidentially, to rate that year in February and May.
A meeting has been scheduled for 2010 Directors performance by reference to the criteria.
The Chairman then and others will be held as the need arises.
In the February meeting discusses the overall result for each Director with him or her and any there was general agreement that, since the September 2007 merger, concerns are addressed.
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer had co-operated well in establishing a successful corporate culture which gave confidence in Independence of Non-Executive Directors the Companys ability to trade well through a period of unprecedented The Chairman, Dr Michael Frenzel, did not meet the independence economic turbulence.
The May meeting focused on the refinancing criteria laid out in the provisions of the Combined Code at the time of requirements of the business.
This is because Dr Frenzel is the Chief Executive of A meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior TUI AG a 52% shareholder of the Company as at 30 September 2009.
Independent Director, took place during the year to appraise the Details of the Chairmans other significant commitments are given in Chairmans performance.
After debate, it was concluded that Board his biography on page 45.
The Chairman does have a number of other meetings are chaired effectively in an open and constructive manner external roles but the Board is satisfied that these do not interfere which encourages contribution from all Non-Executive Directors.
with the performance of his duties as Chairman of the Company.
Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees Of the other 11 Non-Executive Directors, two are not considered to Scheduled Audit Remuneration be independent Rainer Feuerhake and Horst Baier who are also Board Committee Committee Executive Directors of TUI AG.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Dr Volker Bttcher MD Central Europe 7 7 N A N A The Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent are Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer 7 7 N A N A Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Tony Campbell, Clare Chapman, Bill Dalton, Tony Campbell Non-Executive Director 6 7 7 8 7 7 Jeremy Hicks, Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk, Harold Sher Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director 5 7 N A 6 7 and Giles Thorley.
Bill Dalton Non-Executive Director 6 7 6 8 6 7 The Board recognises that the Combined Code requires that at least Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director 7 7 N A 6 7 half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent NonDr Michael Frenzel Chairman 6 7 N A 5 7 Executive Directors.
The Board had 17 members up to 27 May 2009 Jeremy Hicks Non-Executive Director 7 7 8 8 N A when Christoph Mueller resigned, of whom nine were deemed to be Sir Michael Hodgkinson Deputy Chairman 7 7 N A N A independent.
From 28 May 2009 to 30 September 2009, the Board Peter Long Chief Executive 7 7 N A N A had 16 members of whom nine were also deemed to be independent.
Johan Lundgren MD Northern Region 6 7 N A N A Therefore the Company was compliant with provision A3.2 of the Christoph Mueller Aviation Director 5 5 N A N A Combined Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2009.
Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Director 7 7 N A N A Following the appointment of Horst Baier, the Board reverted to Harold Sher Non-Executive Director 7 7 N A N A 17 members of which nine were deemed independent.
Erhard Schipporeit Non-Executive Director 5 7 N A N A Giles Thorley Non-Executive Director 6 7 7 8 N A The Board is committed to seek to ensure that its membership is Will Waggott Commercial Director 7 7 N A N A regularly refreshed.
Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings during the year in which the individual was a Board member.
The Nomination Committee did not meet during the year.
Board governance structure TUI Travel PLC Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Delegated authorities Delegated authorities Delegated authorities Sets remuneration and incentives for the executive Ensures that the Board and Committee Monitors the Groups integrity in financial reporting directors: approves and monitors remuneration and composition has the optimum balance of skills, and reviews the effectiveness of the risk incentive plans for the Group.
knowledge and experience by nominating suitable management framework.
candidates for approval by the Board to fill executive and non-executive vacancies.
Members Members Members C M Chapman Chairman Sir Michael Hodgkinson Chairman J D Hicks Chairman L A Campbell C M Chapman L A Campbell W R P Dalton J D Hicks W R P Dalton Dr M H F Frenzel Dr M H F Frenzel G A Thorley R Feuerhake R Feuerhake www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51 Remuneration Committee Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the See the Remuneration report on page 53 for full details of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
Remuneration Committee, its composition and work during the year.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys Group Audit Services function through meetings with the Director of Group Audit Services, Remuneration Committee effectiveness review the agreement in advance of annual work plans and the review of During July and August 2008, the Remuneration Committee members the results of the work undertaken.
participated in an independent survey of Committee members The consideration of the appointment, re-appointment and removal performance, which was conducted by Deloitte.
An analysis of the of the external auditors and the approval of their remuneration and results was produced at the end of August 2008 and considered at terms of their engagement.
There was unanimous support for the overall effectiveness of the Committee.
The analysis indicated that A policy for the engagement of the external auditors to supply there were certain areas where effectiveness could be further non-audit services was approved in 2007 and remains in force.
The enhanced and the Committee resolved to actively address these Audit Committee has concluded that, in some cases, the provision points.
The Committee considered reports and undertook discussions of non-audit services by the incumbent auditors, which does not on the relevant points in March 2009 and concluded they had been impact on their independence in providing their primary statutory fully addressed.
A new full performance evaluation process is audit role, is appropriate and this has been communicated to the scheduled to commence in January 2010.
Auditor independence and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit Committee monitoring and approving, where appropriate, Nomination Committee the nature of the work and the level of fees paid for non-audit The Committee comprises five Non-Executive Directors and is chaired services as a proportion of the total audit fees paid.
by Sir Michael Hodgkinson the Senior Independent Director.
Audit Committee effectiveness review In relation to the appointment of Horst Baier, who was appointed on An assessment of the effectiveness was conducted during the year 13 October 2009, a description of the role and required capabilities by a questionnaire sent by the Company Secretary to members of was prepared prior to the appointment.
A meeting of the Committee the Audit Committee and relevant executives.
Results from the chaired by Sir Michael Hodgkinson Non-Executive Deputy questionnaires have been collated and the Committee is scheduled Chairman considered Horsts suitability for the role, his other to review and debate the findings before the end of 2009. significant commitments and the existing skills and knowledge of the Board as a whole.
As a significant percentage of the Groups turnover Internal control and risk is generated in Germany, it was believed that additional expertise and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal experience in the differences between German and UK accounting control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the role of management practices was required.
It was felt that Horsts experience in the leisure is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
travel industry as an executive director of TUI AG, and his previous The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate experience over a long career involving work of a financial nature, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
would assist the Board and enable him to make an excellent In pursuing these objectives, internal controls which include financial, contribution to its deliberations.
For this reason, it was not deemed operational and compliance controls and risk management can only appropriate for an external search consultancy or open advertising to provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material be used for this appointment as the Board was of the view that no misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of other candidate would be able to match the specific knowledge and internal controls during the year.
expertise Horst brings to this role.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, At the meeting held in October, the current membership and evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group: that effectiveness of the Committee was also discussed and it was agreed this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date that the composition of the Committee remained appropriate and of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: that this process is effective.
regularly reviewed by the Board: and that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the control framework Audit Committee and review processes in place across the Group are as follows: All members of the Committee are considered to be independent.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board is satisfied that The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives.
Jeremy Hicks has recent and relevant financial experience.
The GMB and Sector management integrate these objectives into their operational and financial business plans.
Where areas for The Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Group Audit Services improvement in the system of internal control are identified, the are normally invited to meetings and other Directors, including the Board considers the recommendations made by the GMB and the Chief Executive and the Non-Executive Directors, may also attend.
The Chairman of the Committee also meets with the external auditors The GMB meets regularly together with other senior executives without management present.
to consider Group operational and financial performance and The Committees duties, which were discharged during the year, include: business development.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf of the GMB on significant changes in the business and Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company the external environment.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial Board with financial information which includes key performance performance, and reviewing the significant financial reporting and risk indicators.
com 52 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Group Risk Management have designed a framework for risk on financial reporting or other matters.
Any reports received are management for TUI Travel PLC in line with Turnbull guidance, passed direct to Group Audit Services which acknowledges receipt and integrated with the short and long term business planning periodically reports back on a confidential basis to the independent processes.
They review the progress in line with this framework third party on any action taken.
Within its regular report to the Audit and report on the Group risk profile on a quarterly basis, providing Committee, Group Audit Services provides a summary of any a consolidated Group risk profile to the Audit Committee on a confidential reports received and actions taken.
Additionally, at each Audit Committee meeting, is also produced which includes a summary of all calls received the framework development is reported and individual Sector highlighting any issues raised.
For further information see Risk management teams are invited to review and discuss their risk Management on page 20. profile on a rotational basis.
Communication with shareholders The Audit Committee, with assistance from certain related The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer hold regular meetings management committees, oversees key risks, such as financial with major shareholders to review the Groups performance and risk, health and safety, corporate and social responsibility and the prospects.
The views of shareholders are communicated to all environment, where such risks apply across all Sectors.
The Board members of the Board following such meetings.
During the course believes that, in order to be effective, risk management processes of these meetings the issue of governance is discussed.
Presentations must be driven down to each operating unit.
Accordingly, each to major shareholders are made at least twice yearly, after the Sector Board now addresses risk management as a standing announcement of the interim and preliminary results, details of which, agenda item and is responsible for ensuring that the risks facing together with the Groups financial reports and other announcements, that Sectors businesses are identified and that related action plans can be accessed via the Groups website www.
Sectors formally report their risk profile on a quarterly basis.
The Combined Code recommends that the Senior Independent The Group Audit Services function independently reviews the risk Director meets with a range of major shareholders to gain an identification procedures and control processes implemented by understanding of their views.
In practice and, as a result of the management and reports its findings at each Audit Committee extensive investor feedback provided by the Chief Executive and the meeting, or more frequently if appropriate.
Chief Financial Officer, the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors believe that they are aware of such issues The Audit Committee reviews the proposed work plans of the and therefore considered that it was not necessary to arrange Group Audit Services function: reports issued by Group Audit meetings with major shareholders for this purpose during the year.
Services: progress made on addressing findings arising from these However, they would make themselves available if any major reports: as well as reports on systems: and controls from the external shareholder requested such a meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of the Audit There is also an opportunity for shareholders to question the Committee meetings held and the Board receives the minutes Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, of all such meetings.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the Annual General The Treasury position of the Group, including cash, foreign exchange Meeting.
This forum also provides Non-Executive Directors with the and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with opportunity to discuss the views of shareholders with them directly.
policies appropriate for each Sector and is the responsibility of the At general meetings: Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
Reports and forecasts are submitted monthly to the GMB and to each Board meeting.
The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially Weekly meetings on liquidity and fuel hedging take place attended separate issue and does not combine resolutions together by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Treasurer and inappropriately: other senior managers as deemed necessary.
A schedule of proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at Financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity the conclusion of the proceedings: and analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the year for review The Annual Report and Accounts is laid before shareholders at the by the GMB and the Board.
These forecasts also include details Annual General Meeting.
of the Groups ongoing compliance with its regulatory and banking requirements.
The Group has established investment appraisal and Combined Code Provisions authorisation procedures and its capital expenditure is reviewed For the reasons disclosed above and in the Remuneration report on against budgets which have been approved by the Board.
page 53, during the year the Company did not fully comply with the following provisions: Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken where necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through the Groups Code Provision A2.2.
The Chairman should on appointment meet internal control and risk management processes.
the independence criteria set out in Code A3.1: There are policies and procedures for the reporting by employees and Code Provision B2.1.
The Remuneration Committee should all be the resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
It is the policy of the independent Non-Executive Directors: and Group to employ staff and management of high integrity, to train Code Provision D1.1.
The Senior Independent Director should meet them appropriately and to require compliance with all relevant laws, with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order regulations and internal policies.
The Group has independent third to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and party reporting mechanisms that allow employees to raise concerns concerns of major shareholders.
