22 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic overview Responsible leadership Our team Group Management Board Strategy The strategic direction of the Group is set by the The aim of our Human Resources strategy is to 1.
Peter Long Group Management Board GMB in conjunction build the most capable, engaged teams to deliver Chief Executive with the Board.
See Governance on page 44. the best results for our business.
We support The GMB consists of tour operating and function this through: 2.
Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer experts drawn from across the Group.
This highly Colleague engagement experienced international team manages and Engaging colleagues in our goals and successes and 3.
Dermot Blastland executes TUI Travels day-to-day operations and is Managing Director, UK & Ireland involving them in matters affecting them.
responsible for the overall performance of the Group.
Dr Volker Bttcher Managing Director, Central Europe Our colleagues Developing our leaders through talent management, TUI Travel employs approximately 50,000 colleagues succession planning and personal development as 5.
Bart Brackx in over 200 travel businesses around the world.
They they play a key role in creating and leading highManaging Director, Western Europe are key to our success and we are proud of their performance teams.
Andrew John commitment and professionalism as they continue Organisation effectiveness Group Legal Director to deliver outstanding customer experiences and Supporting the business through organisation and Company Secretary results for the Group.
design and resource management to meet the 7.
Bill Logan medium and long term needs of the Group.
Diversity Group Human Resources Director As an international business, we operate in many Colleague engagement 8.
Johan Lundgren diverse cultures and accept our responsibility to We share one vision and one set of values across Managing Director, Northern Region rule out discrimination on any grounds including the Group and have developed winning behaviours ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, disability and 9.
Richard Prosser to support them.
We involve our colleagues in age.
We continue to develop policies on nonManaging Director, business matters that affect them and respond Specialist & Emerging Markets discrimination and inclusiveness in line with best to feedback received through employee surveys, practice and, where possible, they are incorporated employee forums and as part of the performance 10.
Joan Vil into training for line managers as a key part of Managing Director, review cycle.
Unfair treatment of any Accommodation & Destinations colleague is not tolerated and confidential reporting The performance review cycle gives every colleague 11.
William Waggott mechanisms are available through which colleagues the opportunity to meet their line manager at least Commercial Director can confidentially raise matters of this nature which once annually to discuss their performance and to may concern them.
make plans for development in the coming year.
John Wimbleton Managing Director, Activity 12 3 4 5 6 www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 TUI Spirit our vision and values Special Experiences Collection Our common vision and values unite us across the In September we produced our first Special Group and we call this our TUI Spirit.
Our vision is Experiences Collection, a web-based magazine to Making Travel Experiences Special and our four showcase stories and experiences of colleagues across values are: the Group, living the values in their daily working lives.
Many of the examples highlighted colleagues Responsible leadership: who provided exceptional customer service.
Customer obsessed: Barteline Wolfs, a Belgian colleague working in Value driven: and the Costa del Sol was on her way into work when Playing to win.
she got a call to say that some clients needed her assistance.
Barteline found herself in the third Winning behaviours have been developed to help traffic jam of the day and unable to reach the hotel embed these values in every day working life in a in time.
She saw no other option than parking the number of ways.
These behaviours allow us to truly car, taking off her shoes and running the mile to engage in our work and optimise our performance the hotel.
There were many amused faces when as individuals and as a business.
she arrived and the clients were very impressed.
Bringing our values to life A couple booking their wedding in Slovenia through Our businesses have adapted these values in one of our Thomson shops had some very specific different ways to suit their requirements and requirements for their special day including black circumstances.
In TUI Nordics they are called Blue roses.
Travel advisor, Kate Wareing, scoured Europe Spirit and in TUI UK & Ireland they are part of the and eventually tracked down a supplier, Kate said internal brand Be Special.
You just need to go that little bit further, if thats what they wanted as far as I was concerned that In the Activity and Specialist & Emerging Markets was what they were going to get.
Sectors, colleagues nominated individuals and teams for TUI Spirit awards.
In TUI Deutschland, In businesses new to the Group, GMB members TUI Spirit champions have been selected to help and their teams work to embed TUI Spirit in a develop ways to further incorporate TUI Spirit into timescale appropriate to each business.
For example, every day working life.
in Russia and Ukraine, our values have been shared and there will be a further programme of activity to embed them in Spring 2010.
com 24 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic overview Responsible leadership continued Living our values Responsible leadership Leadership Voice results highlights Our people are vital to achieving our sustainable 79% response rate from the 679 senior development goals.
Responses to internal surveys managers invited to participate: show us that colleagues are motivated by knowledge 91% favourable responses to I believe in the of the Groups commitment to sustainable goals and objectives of TUI Travel: development and that our record in this area is 88% agreed TUI Travels values are clear to me: becoming increasingly important to recruitment and and retention.
73% of TUI Travels senior leaders agree 72% stated My business does a good job of that my business acts responsibly on environmental developing management expertise.
matters and 66% agree that my business acts responsibly in the local communities in which we Engaging and developing leadership operate Leadership Voice, October 2008. capability Living our values Customer obsessed Developing our managers and senior managers An example of how this value has been brought to is key to our success and we continue to invest life is in our UK Mainstream business.
Over 10,000 in developing our leaders.
Our future business colleagues, working in overseas destinations, retail, performance is dependent on good succession customer service and head office roles have planning for senior management roles.
We aim to attended a training module called Be a Dream develop our own people targeting as many senior Maker with a focus on how to deliver a special appointments from within the organisation as experience to external and internal customers.
We have continued the investment in our leaders this year through a number of programmes 80% of attendees said they had seen a positive including Costa Rica and TUI Horizons.
impact on their own performance after participating in the training.
Be a Dream Maker has now been Costa Rica integrated into the induction programme for all This year, as part of our leadership development new colleagues.
The positive effect on customer programme, 75 senior managers from across the satisfaction was also clear through the 2009 Group had the opportunity to attend a four-day summer season with ratings improving considerably offsite development programme in Costa Rica.
The compared to the previous year.
programme was designed by Group Management Development working in collaboration with i-to-i, Employee surveys measuring one of our Activity businesses.
Each cohort engagement completed building work and made business Colleague engagement is closely linked with improvements in a small eco-tourism business in our business success.
We aim to measure the the rainforest.
The eco-tourism business formed a engagement and satisfaction of our colleagues live case study where delegates applied the Groups regularly, conducting employee surveys at least Managing for Value framework to identify every two years.
opportunities to improve business processes.
Working with an international supplier, we also Participants practised their leadership skills in a conducted our first Leadership Voice survey of challenging, culturally diverse and unfamiliar setting, 679 senior leaders in TUI Travel PLC, published in working with peers and members of the local October 2008.
The survey gathered opinion on a community who run the Heliconias Lodge in Costa range of topics including Engagement, Vision & Rica.
A positive business outcome was that a number Values, Leadership Effectiveness and Business of cross-Group projects were initiated by participants Direction & Strategy.
The results helped us to who had identified opportunities to work together understand the progress made in embedding TUI while in Costa Rica.
The project was completed Spirit and our strategy in different parts of the successfully in September 2009 and we are now Group.
We were also able to identify opportunities investigating a number of destinations and new for improvement.
project ideas to offer a similar development programme for our senior managers in 2010. www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 TUI Horizons Organisation effectiveness TUI Horizons is a development programme for We support organisation effectiveness through middle managers who have been identified as talent management and recruitment processes.
management talent with the potential to take Talent across the Group is reviewed regularly at up senior general management positions across Board level and we are focused on retaining and the Group.
developing individuals to drive the business forward.
TUI Horizons is run as a virtual business school, using To meet seasonal demands, we move our topa number of external experts and internal specialists performing frontline colleagues between retail, from across the Group covering business topics overseas representation and airline cabin crew including Tourism and the Business Environment, roles where possible.
This develops a multi-skilled Strategy and Finance.
During 2009, the programme workforce with year-round experience of delivering ran three times, with 65 managers participating.
In 2010, we plan to extend the scope of TUI We use the most effective recruitment methods in Horizons.
In addition to the core modules, we the countries in which we operate and encourage will offer a number of one-day master classes the sharing of skills and knowledge to suit both on specific subjects that will provide ongoing the business and our colleagues.
As part of our opportunities for learning and networking.
recruitment approach, we actively promote career opportunities across the Group to enhance the mix Recruiting for our long term success of professional and general management skills.
Our International Graduate Management Scheme is part of our strategy to recruit and develop the Reward programmes right people to ensure the long term success of We operate competitive reward programmes our business.
Over 18 months, trainees take on to reinforce and support our overall colleague assignments in different parts of the Group lasting engagement strategy.
In addition, variable three four months and also receive additional compensation in the form of annual and longer personal training and support during this time.
term incentives helps drive the high performance At the end of the scheme, our trainees are offered that our results demonstrate.
This year we introduced an aligned incentive Twelve trainees from nine countries Belarus, programme for our most senior leaders throughout China, France, Germany, Hungary, India, the the Group.
The programme rewards financial Netherlands, Sweden and the UK participated performance of the business in which the individual in the International Management Trainee scheme works.
In 2010, the programme will also take into in 2009.
This included seven trainees who were account how that performance was achieved by recruited into the scheme in 2009 and five trainees mapping the individual leaders actions to our who joined the scheme in 2008. winning behaviours.
To aid retention of talent and ensure focus on longer term shareholder value This year, three trainees have joined the Group creation, at least one-quarter of the annual bonus in permanent roles, as Sales & Retail Manager achieved is deferred into TUI Travel PLC shares for in Germany, Staff Incentives Manager in UK & three years or more.
Ireland Mainstream and Project Manager for Specialist & Emerging Markets in Russia.
The majority of our colleagues participate in local benefit programmes including retirement benefit schemes and generous holiday discounts.
In the UK, colleagues are able to purchase shares in the Group through our Share Incentive Plan that provides one free share for every four shares purchased.
