Directors Report: Corporate governance Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-executive Directors 2 2,3 Aidan Heavey Angus McCoss Pat Plunkett Chief Executive Officer Age 57 Exploration Director Age 48 Chairman Age 59 A founding Director and shareholder of the Angus McCoss was appointed to the Board Pat Plunkett joined the Board as a non-executive Company, Aidan Heavey has played a key role in December 2006.
He is a geologist with a Director in 1998 and was appointed non-executive in the development of Tullow from its formation BP sponsored PhD and, prior to joining Tullow Chairman in 2000.
Mr Plunkett is an accountant in 1985, to its current international status as in April 2006 as General Manager Exploration, with over 30 years experience in the financial a leading independent oil and gas exploration he had 21 years of wide-ranging exploration services sector, particularly in the areas and production group.
A Chartered Accountant, experience, working primarily with Shell in of asset management, stockbroking and he previously held roles in the airline and Africa, Europe, China, South America and corporate finance.
Since leaving ABN AMRO engineering sectors in Ireland.
Aidan is a the Middle East.
He held a number of senior Bank in 1998, he has been providing strategic director of Traidlinks, an Irish-based charity positions within Shell including Americas business advice to a number of private established to develop and promote enterprise Regional Vice President Exploration and companies.
He is a former director of and diminish poverty in the developing world, General Manager of Exploration in Nigeria.
He is currently a non-executive Director of Ikon 1,2, 3 Science Limited and a member of the Advisory 1.
Steven McTiernan Ian Springett Board of the industry backed Energy and Senior Independent Director Age 58 Geoscience Institute of the University of Utah.
Chief Financial Officer Age 52 Steven McTiernan was appointed as a A Chartered Accountant, Ian Springett, was non-executive Director in 2002 and was Paul McDade appointed Chief Financial Officer and to the appointed Senior Independent Director Chief Operating Officer Age 46 Board on 1 September 2008.
Prior to joining on 1 January 2008.
Mr McTiernan began his Tullow, he worked at BP for 23 years where Paul McDade was appointed to the Board in career as a petroleum engineer, working with he gained a wealth of international oil and gas March 2006.
Mr McDade joined Tullow in 2001 BP, Amoco and Mesa in the Middle East and experience.
Most recently at BP, he was the and was appointed Chief Operating Officer the UK.
In 1979, he joined Chase Manhattan Group Vice President for Planning with other following the Energy Africa acquisition in 2004, Bank, where he became Senior Vice-President senior positions including Commercial Director havingpreviously managed Tullows UKgas and head of the banks energy group based in of the Supply and Trading Business, Upstream business.
An engineer with over 20 years New York.
From 1996 to 2001 he held senior CFO, Vice President of Finance, US CFO and a experience, he has worked in various energy-related positions at NatWest Markets Business Unit leader in Alaska.
Prior to joining operational, commercial and management and then CIBC World Markets.
He is currently BP, he qualified with Coopers & Lybrand.
roles with Conoco, Lasmo and ERC.
He has principal of Sandown Energy Consultants broad international experience having worked Limited, a natural resources advisory intheUKNorthSea, LatinAmerica, Africaand firm based in London.
Graham Martin South East Asia and holds degrees in Civil General Counsel and Company Secretary 1,2, 3 Engineering and Petroleum Engineering.
Clare Spottiswoode CBE Age 56 Non-executive Director Age 57  Tullow as Legal and Commercial Director Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as a in 1997 from Vinson & Elkins, a leading non-executive Director in 2002.
Prior to that, he was and an economist by training, Ms Spottiswoode apartner inDicksonMintoWS, aUKcorporate began her career in the Treasury before starting law firm.
He has over 30 years experience of her own software company.
Between 1993 and  1998 she was Director General of Ofgas, the transactions and has been the principal legal UKgas regulator.
She is Chairman ofGas adviser to Tullow since its formation in 1985.
Strategies Limited, and also a non-executive He was appointed General Counsel in 2004 Director of Energy Solutions Inc and Chairman and Company Secretary in 2008. of Energy Solutions Europe.
In November 2006 she became the Policyholder Advocate for Aviva plc.
Previously, she was Deputy Chairman of British Energy from 2002 to 2007.
1 Member of the Audit Committee.
2 Member of the Nominations Committee.
3 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
80 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 1,2, 3 3.
David Bamford Non-executive Director Age 63 David Bamford was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2004.
With a PhD in Geological Sciences he has had over 23 years exploration experience with BP where he was Chief Geophysicist from 1990 to 1995, General Manager for West Africa from 1995 to 1998, and acted as Vice President, Exploration, directing BPs global exploration programme, from 2001 to 2003.
He is a director or advisor to several small companies, including his own consultancy and he writes regularly for journals such as OilVoice and ROGTEC.
He co-founded Finding Petroleum as a vehicle for online communication in 1 4 the oil and gas industry.
Ann Grant Non-executive Director Age 61 Ann Grant was appointed as a non-executive Director in May 2008.
She joined the UK Diplomatic Service in 1971: from 1998 she worked at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London, as Director for Africa and the Commonwealth.
She was British High Commissioner to South Africa from 2000 to 2005.
She joined Standard Chartered Bank in London as a Special Adviser in 2005.
She chairs the Banking Working Group of the Commonwealth Business Council, is a Board Member of the Overseas Development Institute and an independent Trustee on the UK Disasters Emergency Committee.
David Williams Non-executive Director Age 64 David Williams was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2006.
A Chartered Accountant, he brings a wealth of public company experience to Tullow from many years with Bunzl plc where he was Finance Director until he retired in 2006, and prior to that as Finance Director of Tootal Group plc.
He is the joint Chairman of Mondi plc and the Senior Independent Director of Taylor Wimpey plc.
He will be retiring from the board of Taylor Wimpey plc on 31 March 2010.
He is also a non-executive Director of Meggitt PLC and DP World Limited, a Dubai quoted company, chairing the audit committee at both companies.
com 81 Directors Report: Corporate governance
