Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Compliance with the Combined Code Board of Directors on corporate governance the Code Role of the Board In working towards its strategic objectives, the Board continues The Board sets the Groups strategy, ensuring that the to be committed to ensuring that the highest levels of corporate necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic governance are achieved.
This is integral to its stated overall priorities, and reviews management and financial performance.
aim to create a culture amongst the Companys employees, It is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery suppliers, contractors and other industry partners which places of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term strong emphasis upon high standards of business conduct, shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and ethics and integrity.
Tullows Code of Business Conduct, which monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls is reviewed by the Board at least annually, is available on which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively the Companys website.
through clear procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the As a UK listed company, Tullow Oil plc is required to Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for make certain statements relating to the way it is governed ensuring that these, together with the Groups obligations to its covering issues laid down in the Combined Code on Corporate stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and most recently amended in June 2008 the Code.
A copy of the Composition Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, at: www.
five Executive Directors and five independent non-executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors has extensive In compliance with these requirements, this report which is knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
deemed to form part of the Directors Report describes the manner in which the Company has applied the main principles Together, the non-executive Directors bring a broad range of governance set out in Section 1 of the Code.
of business, commercial and other relevant experience to the Board, which is vital to the management of an expanding The Company is also required to state whether it has complied international company.
Three of the five non-executive Directors throughout the year under review with the detailed provisions either currently hold or previously held appointments in oil and of the Code.
In recent years, the Board has been addressing gas companies or companies with energy interests.
the level of its detailed compliance and, following a review, it considers that the Company fully complied with the provisions The Board considers there is an appropriate balance between set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year ended Executive and non-executive Directors, with a view to promoting 31 December 2009.
This is the first full year in respect of which shareholder interests and governing the business effectively.
the Company has, in the Boards opinion, complied without Biographical details of the Board members, including details exception to the Code provisions.
This follows the re-balancing of any other major directorships held, are set out on pages 80 of the Board completed during 2008 which resulted in at and 81. least half the Board excluding the Chairman comprising independent non-executive Directors as required by the Code.
Composition of Board Details of the Companys corporate governance practices are set out below and are also available on the Companys website 45% at: www.
html The FRC is currently consulting on proposed revisions to the Code.
The revised Code to be re-named The UK Corporate Governance Code is expected to be published in mid-2010, following which the Board will address its new provisions and report on the Companys compliance in the next 55% Executive Directors Annual Report.
Non-executive Directors 82 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Independence and conflicts There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, The Board considers each of the current non-executive Pat Plunkett, and the Chief Executive Officer, Aidan Heavey, Directors to be independent in character and judgement and to ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to accountability.
The division of responsibilities has been fully affect or could appear to affect the judgement of any Director.
established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
With effect from 1 October 2008, a Director has a duty to avoid The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with part in the development and determination of the Groups the interests of the Group.
The Board has satisfied itself that strategy, and acting as guardian and facilitator of the there is no compromise to the independence of those Directors Boards decision-making process.
who have appointments on the boards of, or relationships with, companies outside the Group.
The Board requires Directors The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the to declare all appointments and other situations which could Groups business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy result in a possible conflict of interest and has adopted and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board appropriate processes to manage and, if appropriate, and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions approve any such conflicts.
of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with Election and re-election shareholders as part of the Groups overall investor All new Directors are required by the Companys Articles of relations programme.
Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, Non-executive Directors Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every Appointment three years.
Where a non-executive Director has served longer Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term than nine years, it is Board policy that the Director be subject of three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement thereafter to annual re-election in accordance with the Code.
The letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are available for inspection at At the 2010 AGM, Aidan Heavey, Angus McCoss and David the registered office.
Williams having been in office for three years since they were last elected, retire and being eligible, they offer themselves Meetings of non-executive Directors for re-election.
In addition, as Pat Plunkett has now been In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, a Director for more than nine years he now retires annually Committee meetings, the non-executive Directors also met and a resolution for his re-election will be proposed at this formally on two occasions during 2009 without executive years AGM.
At these meetings, the non-executive Directors examined and reviewed the performance of the executive management.
This review process is in part dealt with by the Board Committees referred to on pages 86 to 88.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer held informal meetings with the non-executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group, such as target objectives, strategy, key performance indicators and remuneration matters.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is Steven McTiernan.
In this role Mr McTiernan is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or where such contact is inappropriate.
No such meetings were held or requested during the year.
com 83 Directors Report: Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued How the Board operates Independent professional advice Board meetings In accordance with Board policy, all Directors and Committees The Board holds scheduled meetings regularly during the have access to independent professional advice, at the year and meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
The Board has Companys expense, as and when required.
arranged to hold at least one Board meeting each year at one of Matters reserved the principal overseas offices of the Group.
This provides senior A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is managers from across the Group the opportunity to present in place and is reviewed annually.
to the Board and to meet the Board members informally.
It also provides the Board with an opportunity to meet a good The matters reserved include amongst others : cross-section of staff and to assess senior managers at Agreeing the Groups overall strategy: first hand.
Approval of financial statements, material acquisitions and The attendance record of each Director is shown below.
disposals, material contracts, major capital expenditure During 2009, the Board met formally on 10 occasions.
Two projects and budgets: formal strategy review meetings were also held with senior management present.
In addition to the formal meetings of Approval of any amendments to the annual budget: and the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain A regular review of the Groups overall corporate frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues governance arrangements.
of concern they may have relating to the Group or as regards their area of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on Delegated authorities the Groups operations.
Certain matters are delegated by the Board to the Audit, Also, in order to ensure that the non-executive Directors are Nominations and Remuneration Committees, each of which fully briefed on the more technical and operational aspects is described in more detail on pages 86 to 88. of our activities, such as the Jubilee offshore development and Subject to these matters, the Board delegates authority for our extensive exploration programme, those non-executive the management of the day-to-day business and operational Directors with particular expertise in these areas, meet matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the other Executive regularly with the Chief Operating Officer and the Exploration Directors who form the Executive Committee.
This Committee Director to receive more in-depth briefings.
meets weekly and is responsible for implementing Group policy Attendance at meetings and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and business.
The Executive Committee is assisted by the Senior its Committees during 2009 was as follows: Management Committee SMC which is responsible for managing the groups portfolio of assets and delivering against Board Audit Nominations Remuneration the approved budget and plan.
The Committee meets weekly No.
of Meetings 10 4 2 4 with the Executive Directors, and enables the right level and Pat Plunkett 10 10 2 2 4 4 quality of resources to deliver our business objectives.
This Aidan Heavey 10 10 2 2 Committee, which consists of Exploration, P&D and Finance David Bamford 10 10 3 4 2 2 3 4 General Managers and the Heads of Planning & Economics, Commercial, HR and Risk & Marketing is also responsible Ann Grant 10 10 4 4 2 2 4 4 for identifying, evaluating and mitigating business risk as Graham Martin 10 10 explained on pages 62 to 65.
Angus McCoss 10 10 Paul McDade 9 10 Steven McTiernan 10 10 4 4 2 2 4 4 How we are organised Clare Spottiswoode 10 10 4 4 2 2 4 4 Directors Report: Group overview How we are organised At Tullow, a strong governance Ian Springett 10 10 We continue to invest in building our team and structuring our organisation so that we can deliver the exceptional growth and organisational framework opportunities that the Group has in its business today.
David Williams 10 10 4 4 2 2 4 4 At Tullow, a strong governance and organisational This framework holds the Board and management framework defines the roles and responsibilities of accountable for the Groups performance by ensuring Chief Financial Ofc Ian Springett er Chief Operating Ofc Paul McDade er Chief Ex Aidan Heavey ecutive officer Angus McCos Exploration Director s Graham Martin General Counsel and our Board of Directors and senior management.
It is we critically evaluate the business decisions, Company Secretary based on accountability, transparency and achieving strategies and risks we undertake.
It helps us to defines the roles and responsibilities plays a l the highest standar eading role in risk management.
ds of ethics and integrity.
It also engage with and r This in turn helps to pr espond to our many stakeholders.
otect and build our reputation and create long-term sustainable growth.
Business Systems Environment, External Affairs Global Exploration Compliance Corporate Planning Health & Safety EHS Leadership Team Human Resources Financ & Economics e Commer Engineering cial Exp Appraisal busines loration & s Secretariat Internal Audit Major projects Exploration new Investor Relations Operations ventures Risk management Board of Directors Board Committees Risk & Marketing Production & Group geosciences Supply Chain Development Geophysical of your Board and senior management Tullow has an integrated 11 members in total Audit Committee Management Well Engineering technology system for the management Six non-executive Directors Nominations Committee of strategic, business and operational risk.
including the Chairman and Remuneration Committee Senior Independent Director The Board of Directors has overall r additional r esponsibility esources pr, with ovided Senior Management Committee by the Audit Committee.
Pete Dickerson, Head of Corporate Planning & Economics Mike Simpson, Group Commercial Manager Each Executive Director has Executive Directors dened responsibility and Chris Flavell, General Manager Exploration Julian Tedder, General Manager Finance accountability for specic Chief Executive officer Gordon Headley, Chief Human Resources officer Brian Williams, Head of Risk & Marketing aspects of risk.
Chief Financial officer Martyn Morris, General Manager Production & Development In each area Executive Chief Operating officer Senior Management Committee Information flow Directors are supported Exploration Director The Senior Management Committee by members of the senior General Counsel and SMC is responsible for managing management team or managers with key Company Secretary Tullows business on a day-to-day functional responsibility.
basis and ensuring safe delivery of the Corporate functions In-country management agreed annual budget and plan and Graham Brunton, Group EHS Manager Brian Glover, Uganda effective risk evaluation, management Rosalind Kainyah, Vice President External Affairs Dai Jones, Ghana and mitigation.
This team of senior managers works Andrew Marks, Chief Information officer Brian Kay, Angola directly with the Executive Directors Joe Mongan, Geophysical Technology Manager Richard Lee, Bangladesh keeping them full business issues and opportunities y informed of David Mooney, Group Supply Chain Manager Kemal Mohamedou, Mauritania Directors have access to a regular supply of financial, across Tullow and the industry.
Tim OHanlon, Vice President Africa Peter Owens, Namibia Chris Perry, Head of Investor Relations Kevin Quinn, Dublin Peter Sloan, Group Legal Manager David Roux, Gabon Read more Gert-Jan Smulders, Group Engineering Manager Bill Torr, Cape Town Boar Board of Dir d Committees page 86 ectors page 80 Roger Swaine, Group Projects Manager Franco Uliana, Cte dIvoire Corporate responsibility page 68 Mike Williams, Group Well Engineering Manager Muzaffar Virk, Pakistan Governance page 78 Awa Wane, Senegal Risk management page 62 Nick Woodall-Mason, Tanzania operational, strategic and regulatory information to assist 8 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts www.
com 9 Read more on page 8 them in the discharge of their duties.
Much of this information is provided as part of the normal management reporting process.
Board papers are circulated in time to allow Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In addition, Board meetings generally include a review of the history, performance and future potential of a material individual asset or business unit.
This is designed to ensure that all material assets are considered on a cyclical basis and to enable Board members to familiarise themselves with the key assets and operations of the Group.
84 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Directors Report: Group overview Board effectiveness The Boards Committees continued to operate efficiently, and Board performance evaluation although consideration was given to changing the composition The 2009 evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual of the Committees it was felt that the current structure directors was, as in 2008, carried out internally, but this year continued to suit Tullow for the time being.
Certain was led by Steven McTiernan, the Senior Independent Director.
improvements in communications between the Committees and the full Board were noted for action in 2010.
As part of the Board evaluation, the Senior Independent Director had discussions with each of the Directors on his or her individual performance and separately, the non-executive Directors have reviewed the performance of the Chairman with input from the Executive Directors.
The Board is of the view that each non-executive Director commits sufficient time to discharge his or her duties effectively.
In conclusion, while recognising the need for continued improvement in the structure of Board meetings and administrative procedures, the Board members considered that the Board continues to function in a manner that encourages open and honest discussion in an environment of trust and mutual respect.
Induction All new Directors receive an induction as soon as practicable after appointment.
This includes meetings with senior management, functional and business unit heads and where appropriate, visits to the principal offices and operations.
The Company Secretary also provides new Directors with an overview of their duties as Directors, corporate governance policies and established Board procedures as part of the induction process.
Continuing professional development All members of the Board have access to appropriate training in respect of their obligations and duties as Directors, and during the year, a number of the Directors attended external seminars on relevant topics.
In addition, specific briefings were also given to the Board to ensure Board members remain up-to-date with current regulations and developments.
These included the implications for Tullow of the 2009 UK Bribery Bill.
In summary, the 2009 Board evaluation concluded that there had been considerable progress in many areas since the last full external evaluation in 2007 and the internal evaluation in 2008.
The more recent Directors have settled in well to their Board duties and contributed fully at meetings.
Corporate strategy is believed to be well defined, understood and disseminated throughout the organisation to all stakeholders.
The re-ordering of Board agendas in 2009 focused debate on the key strategic issues facing the Group and communication with employees has improved substantially.
The Board recognised however that Tullows exceptional growth and success had also brought challenges and that the Board must continue to upgrade its approach and composition to meet them.
Succession planning for Directors was recognised as an area that will require special attention in 2010, to ensure that the Board continued to have available to it the correct balance of skills and experience to meet the financial, operational and governance challenges of growth.
com 85 Directors Report: Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Committees The Board has established the following principal Committees, each of which has written terms of reference approved by the Board setting out its authority and duties.
Copies of the terms of reference which were reviewed and updated where necessary during the year, can be viewed on the About us section of the Companys website: www.
Hard copies can also be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Audit C Audit Co om mm mi itt ttee ee Da David Wi vid Willia lliam ms s, Chairm Chairman an Da David B vid Ba amford mford Ann Grant Ann Grant Steven McTier Steven McTiernan nan Clare Spottiswoode Clare Spottiswoode Main responsibilitie Main responsibilities s Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting policies and disclosures in financial reports: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and risk management systems: Considering how the Groups internal audit requirements shall be satisfied and making recommendations to the Board: Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors: Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditors and, where appropriate, the selection of new external auditors: and Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
The Committee comprises five independent non-executive Directors and oversees the Groups financial reporting and internal controls and provides a formal reporting link with the auditors.
David Williams, who is Chairman of the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant and until his retirement in 2006 was Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
Currently, he also chairs the audit committees of Meggitt PLC and DP World Limited and is a member of the audit committee of Taylor Wimpey plc until he retires as a non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey on 31 March 2010.
It is a requirement of the Combined Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
David Williams therefore meets this requirement.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process described on page 85.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the The Committee approved the programme of 2009 internal Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit audit work aimed at addressing both financial and overall services they provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are risk management objectives identified within the Group.
A normally limited to assignments that are closely related to number of internal audit reviews were undertaken during the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that 2009 covering a range of financial and business processes a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
A policy in the Groups main business units in London and Cape for the engagement of the external auditors to supply Town and the main operational locations in Ghana and non-audit services has been implemented to formalise these Uganda.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to arrangements which requires Audit Committee approval for management and in summary to the Audit Committee during certain categories or work.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the year.
Recommendations made as a result of the work of the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work Internal Audit are tracked for timely implementation and is included in note 3 on page 119 to the financial statements.
In reported to the Audit Committee periodically.
No significant addition to processes put in place to ensure segregation of weaknesses were identified as a result of risk management audit and non-audit roles, Deloitte LLP are required as part of and internal controls reviews undertaken by Internal Audit the assurance process in relation to the audit, to confirm to the during 2009.
The Group also undertook regular audits of Committee that they have both the appropriate independence non-operated joint ventures under the supervision of business and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members unit management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
This confirmation was given and no matters of addition the Committee oversee the work of the independent concern were identified by the Committee.
reserves auditors ERC and arrangements in place for managing Information Technology risk relating to the The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, Groups critical business systems.
the General Manager Finance, the Deputy Company Secretary and representatives of the external auditors are normally invited Updated whistle-blowing procedures for the Group were to attend each meeting of the Committee.
The Chairman of the implemented during the year and an independent external Board also attends meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The reporting service is being introduced to enable staff to raise external auditors have unrestricted access to the Committee concerns confidentially.
The Committee considers these Chairman.
During the 2009 audit process, the Audit Committee amended whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate Chairman met with Deloittes Audit Engagement Partner for the size and scale of the Group.
without the presence of management.
Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee In 2009, the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
During the year, the Audit Committee completed a review The key work undertaken by the Committee was as follows: of the effectiveness of external audit, internal audit and of the Audit Committee itself through a series of questionnaires.
Consideration and review of full year and half-yearly results Internal Audit co-ordinated the review with results presented The Committee met with the external auditors as a part to the members of the Audit Committee.
The Committee was of the full year and half-yearly accounts approval process.
considered to be operating effectively and in accordance with During this exercise the Committee considered the the guidance recommended by the Smith Committee included most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or in the Combined Code.
judgemental matters identified during the audit or half-yearly In addition, and in line with best practice, the effectiveness review, as well as any recommendations or observations of Tullows Internal Audit function, that was established in made by the external auditors.
2006, was independently reviewed by Deloitte LLP.
The results Audit planning and update on relevant accounting developments of this review confirmed that significant progress had been The Group prepares financial statements under International made in developing the function and that the internal audit Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The adoption of new process was operating effectively.
A plan to further develop and revised Standards and interpretations during 2009 and the functions resources and capabilities is being implemented their impact on the financial statements are described on to ensure Internal Audit continues to effectively support page 111 and 112. the Group.
Consideration and approval of the risk management The external audit process was also considered to be framework, annual Internal Audit Plan and periodic operating effectively.
reports from Internal Audit The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His main responsibilities include: evaluating and developing the Groups overall control environment, operating efficiency and risk identification and management at operating, regional and corporate levels.
In fulfilling his role, the Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the Committee without reference to executive management.
During 2009, the Audit Committee Chairman met with the Group Internal Audit Manager without the presence of management.
com 87 Directors Report: Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Remuneratio Remuneration C n Co ommittee mmittee No Nomi minati nation ons Co s Comm mmit ittee tee Clare Spottiswoode, Clare Spottiswoode, Ch Chai airm rman an Pat Plu Pat Plunkett, nkett, Ch Chairman airman Da David B vid Ba amford mford Da David B vid Ba amford mford Ann Grant Ann Grant Ann Grant Ann Grant Aidan Heavey Aidan Heavey Steven McTier Steven McTiernan nan Steven McTier Steven McTiernan nan Pat Plu Pat Plunkett nkett Clare Spottiswoode Clare Spottiswoode Da David Wi vid Willia lliam ms s Da David Wi vid Willia lliam ms s Main responsibilitie Main responsibilities s Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration Main responsibilitie Main responsibilities s policy for the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, Executive Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Directors and senior executives: Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes required: Approving the design of, and determining targets for, an annual performance-related pay scheme for the Executive Succession planning for Directors and other Directors and senior executives: senior executives: Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for approval Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates by the Board and shareholders and determining the annual to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: award policy to Executive Directors and senior executives Reviewing annually the time commitment required of under existing plans: non-executive Directors: and Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the Making recommendations to the Board with regard to remainder of the remuneration packages principally membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees comprising salary and pension for each Executive in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee.
Director and senior executive: and Reviewing and noting the remuneration trends across the Group The Committee comprises all the non-executive Directors When fulfilling these responsibilities, the Remuneration and the Chief Executive and meets as required.
During the year, Committee obtains independent advice where necessary the Committee met twice, primarily to review Board and Board and takes due account of emerging market and best practice, Committee composition and succession matters.
together with any relevant regulatory guidance.
In addition, the Committee consults with major shareholders and investor The Nominations Committee continually reviews the composition representative bodies where appropriate.
and balance of the Board to ensure that the Group has the right structure, skills and experience in place for the effective The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part management of the Groups expanding business.
It has been of the Board performance evaluation process described recognised that the Committee is likely to be particularly active on page 85. in 2010 in planning for the progressive refreshment of the The Directors Remuneration report on pages 91 to 100 Board in the coming years to ensure that there are Directors contains further details of the role and activities of the with the appropriate skills and experience to match the Remuneration Committee.
particular challenges that will face Tullow in the future.
The views of major shareholders will be sought at the same time.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described on page 85.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Shareholder relations of the poll including the votes cast for and against together Communication with shareholders is given high priority and with the votes withheld is made available as soon as reasonably there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well practicable through a regulatory information service and on the as general presentations to analysts at the time of the release Groups website.
of the full year and half-yearly results.
Throughout 2009, All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder Executive Directors and senior management met with documentation, including the Annual Report, electronically or institutional investors in London and across the UK, as well in paper format as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes as in Dublin and several other European cities.
Five roadshow either electronically or by post.
trips took place in North America and attendances at 13 UK and European conferences provided for comprehensive and Internal controls engaging dialogue with shareholders, with over 200 individual The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups meetings held.
During 2010, Tullow is planning to host a and the Companys systems of internal control, which are Capital Markets Day in Ghana for UK analysts.
The Board designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure receives regular investor relations reports covering key investor the reliability of financial information for both internal use and meetings and activities, as well as shareholder and investor external publication and comply with the Turnbull Committee feedback.
As part of our ongoing strategy to improve guidance on the Combined Code.
The Groups internal control shareholder relations, Tullow commissioned the Rivel Research procedures require technical, financial and Board approval for Group to undertake an independent investment community all projects.
All major expenditures require senior management Perception Study in December 2009.
The studys preliminary approval at the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall findings were received in February 2010.
The full report will be control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting system presented to the Board in April.
Initial findings confirmed the covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the high level of respect the investment community has for the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures Tullow management team and the Groups strategy.
It has for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks identified specific strategic challenges for the Board to consider that face the Group.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an and communicate on during 2010.
The study also demonstrated integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business unit a high approval rating for the effectiveness of Tullows Investor documents its strategic objectives and the significant risks in Relations programme which provides open and transparent achieving them and regularly reports on progress against these disclosure and good access to Executive Management.
Key risks are also reported monthly to the Board.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and planning system for The Group issues its results and other news releases promptly all items of expenditure with an annual budget approved by the via the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service Board.
Actual results are reported against budget on a monthly and publishes them on the Investor Relations section of the basis.
Revised financial forecasts for the year and financial Groups website: www.
Regular updates projections for future years are regularly prepared.
to record news in relation to the Group and the status of exploration and development programmes are also included The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness of on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can the Groups risk management activities and internal control subscribe to receive these news updates by email by registering processes.
Any system of internal control can provide only online on the website.
A new corporate website with additional reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial functionality was launched in February 2010 to enhance the irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to Groups communication with all stakeholders.
The Chairman is achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Boards objective available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any is to ensure Tullow has appropriate systems in place for the issues and address any concerns in relation to the Companys identification and management of risks.
Non-executive Directors have the The Board receives reports from business unit and corporate opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and teams throughout the year to enable them to assess on an are available to attend if requested to do so.
Meetings are ongoing basis the effectiveness of the system of internal also held with the corporate governance representatives of controls and risk management.
During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for the a number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to the benefit of shareholders.
Individual shareholders are given the Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, the chairmen The Board has confirmed that through its Audit Committee of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal and to other members of the Board.
In addition, the Board is financial, operational and compliance controls and risk committed to maintaining strong links with its significant Irish management, and considers that the system of internal shareholder base and holds a business presentation in Dublin controls operated effectively throughout the financial following the AGM to allow these shareholders similar access to year and up to the date on which the financial statements the Company.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least were signed.
20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, are made available after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
In the event a vote at the AGM is held on a poll, the result www.
com 89 Directors Report: Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Going concern The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices, different production rates from the Groups portfolio of producing fields and delays in development projects.
The Group normally seeks to ensure that it has a minimum ongoing capacity of US$500 million 320 million for a period of at least 12 months to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Following the placing announced in January 2010, the planned portfolio activity and with the US$2.25 billion 1.44 billion financing already secured in 2009, the Groups forecasts and projections show that there is significant capacity and financial flexibility for the 12 months from the date of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts.
After taking account of the above, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts.
Further information which is relevant to the application of the going concern assumption is provided in Notes 17 and 18 to the Financial Statements and the sections related to funding within the Business Review.
Pat Plunkett Chairman 9 March 2010 90 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
