updates risk factors as they are identified or come to the fore.
It is action-orientated and specifies what must be done, helping us to develop better mitigation and responses to changes in the external operating environment.
The key risks for Tullow in 2010 are execution risk in Ghana and Uganda and exploration risk in the context of the high level of planned exploration and appraisal activity across our portfolio.
More detail on risk management can be found on pages 62 to 65.
Key Performance Indicators As our business has grown we have become more disciplined and sophisticated in how we measure our progress.
The Group has seven KPIs split between two non-financial and five financial indicators.
We also identified the need to recognise the major Graham Martin transition the Group is currently going through.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Specific performance objectives have therefore been defined for finance, portfolio management Governance highlights and our major projects in Ghana and Uganda.
Governance highlights for the year include: While we did well overall against our performance indicators and objectives, there were three areas First year of full compliance with the Combined Code: where we did not achieve the top possible outcome.
Three-day Board visit to the Cape Town office: We fell marginally short of our production target: Review of the structure and content of Board meetings we reduced our safety performance achievement to increase the focus and time spent on strategic matters: by 50% as a result of the fatality in Bangladesh and the Ugandan farmdown was not finalised in 2009.
Launch and rollout of the Code of Business Conduct and a planned update this year: A very bright future Review by Internal Audit of political and country risk processes Tullow had another outstanding year in 2009 and the and resources: pace of activity continues as we move into 2010, with some remarkable achievements already.
We plan to Board evaluation which concluded that considerable progress consolidate the exceptional progress we have made had been made since the last external evaluation in 2007: in the last five years and leverage our unique position Investment in building an External Affairs function and as Africas leading independent oil company.
developing a programme to ensure we manage the significant responsibilities that come with our major projects: and Briefings at all locations regarding Tullows long-standing zero tolerance towards any form of bribery or corruption.
Pat Plunkett Our approach to corporate responsibility Chairman At Tullow, corporate responsibility incorporates social investment and enterprise development, risk management, EHS, supply chain management and Human Resources HR.
Investor Relations and External Affairs and consultation with our stakeholders is also part of our approach to corporate responsibility.
Shareholder feedback We always welcome shareholder feedback and please feel free to email Pat Plunkett at chairman@tullowoil.
com 17 Directors Report: Group overview
