Corporate governance Combined code compliance Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group has applied the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published in June 2008 the Code.
The Group has complied fully with these provisions during 2009.
Main Board The Board deals with the important aspects of the Groups affairs including setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring that the Group has adequate financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, to which certain key responsibilities are delegated.
These responsibilities, which are in line with the recommendations of the Code, are set out below.
At the start of 2009, the Board structure consisted of the Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors and three executive Directors.
The number of independent non-executive Directors increased to four when Sir Robert Walmsley was appointed in January 2009, and reverted to three at the Annual General Meeting AGM held in April 2009, when Andrew Walker retired.
The Companys Chairman, Julian Blogh, has informed the Board of his intention to retire at the 2011 AGM.
Douglas Caster plans to relinquish his role as Chief Executive at the same date.
Following discussions with major shareholders, the Board decided to propose that Douglas Caster should be appointed as Deputy Chairman with effect from the April 2010 AGM, and should succeed Julian Blogh as Chairman with effect from the April 2011 AGM.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code to explain the proposed move of the Chief Executive to the position of Chairman, the Board believes that Douglas Casters experience, track record, and detailed understanding of the highly complex nature of the Groups operations make him uniquely qualified to take over the Chairmans role.
Douglas Caster was a founding shareholder of the Group and has made an outstanding contribution to the growth and success of Ultra, creating substantial and consistent shareholder value.
The Directors believe that he is much better equipped to present an effective and independent challenge to the executive team than a new Chairman appointed from outside the Group.
The Board also proposes that Rakesh Sharma, who was promoted to Chief Operating Officer with effect from 1 January 2010, should be put forward for election to the Board at the April 2010 AGM.
The Board intends that he should succeed Douglas Caster as Chief Executive with effect from the April 2011 AGM.
Rakesh Sharma has comprehensive experience of the operations of Ultra, having occupied a number of senior positions within different parts of the Group.
He has been with Ultra since its formation in 1993, having previously been employed by Dowty Group.
He has an outstanding track record of achievement within different Ultra businesses and has been responsible for a number of successful acquisitions that the Group has made.
Recognising the contribution that Rakesh Sharma, as Chief Operating Officer, makes to the management of the Group, Douglas Caster will reduce his time commitment to the Group to an average of three days per week from the 2010 AGM.
Accordingly, for the period from the 2010 AGM until the 2011 AGM it is proposed that the Board will comprise the Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors, and four executive Directors.
This structure is necessary to accommodate the succession plan described above.
After the 2011 AGM, the Board structure will return to a balance between independent non-executive Directors and executive Directors.
The Chairman, Dr Julian Blogh, is also non-executive Chairman of Gooch and Housego plc.
Andrew Walker was senior independent non-executive Director until he retired at the April 2009 AGM.
He was succeeded in this role by Chris Bailey.
The senior independent non-executive Director has particular responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for safeguarding the provisions of the Code on corporate governance, and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Company Secretary has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Ian Griffiths continued in his role as an independent non-executive Director.
Sir Robert Walmsley joined the Board in January 2009 to replace Andrew Walker as an independent non-executive Director and was formally elected to the Board at the 2009 AGM.
David Jeffcoat, who was both Finance Director and Company Secretary, retired at the AGM in April 2009, after which the roles were separated.
Paul Dean succeeded David Jeffcoat as Finance Director, and was elected to the Board at the April 2009 AGM.
David Garbett-Edwards was appointed as Company Secretary at the same time.
The main Board met 11 times during the year.
Details of the numbers of the individual Directors attendance at these meetings and those of the Board sub-committees are set out in the table on page 41.
40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Meeting attendance 2009 Main Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 11 41 4 C. Bailey 11 41 4 J. Blogh 11 -1 - D. Caster 11 -1 - 1 P. Dean 8- - - I. Griffiths 11 41 4 A. Hamment 11 -- - 2, 3 D. Jeffcoat 32 - 1 3 A. Walker 32 - 2 Sir R. Walmsley 11 41 4 1 Paul Dean was appointed as Finance Director on 24 April 2009.
2 David Jeffcoat was Secretary to the Board and all three sub-committees.
He attended committee meetings in that capacity.
3 Andrew Walker and David Jeffcoat retired on 24 April 2009.
In addition to the above meetings the non-executive Directors meet annually to review the performance of the Executive Directors.
Details of those matters reserved for the Board can be found in the investors section of the Group website at www.
Key decisions that are delegated to the Chief Executive include the approval of budgeted capital investments below 500,000 in value, the terms of major contract bids below 100m, the appointment and dismissal of business unit Managing Directors and Presidents, together with the determination of their remuneration levels, and the granting of charitable donations.
Decisions on charitable donations are made with the advice of an internal charities committee.
Conflicts of interest Each Director is aware of his responsibility to bring any situational or transactional conflicts of interest to the attention of the Board for its authorisation as soon as they arise.
An annual review of the Conflicts Register is undertaken through a questionnaire designed to identify any conflicts of interest which is completed by all Directors.
The same process applies to new Directors who are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire.
Any identified conflicts are considered and, where appropriate, duly authorised by the Board.
No new conflicts were identified in the year.
Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control procedures that are in place throughout Ultras operations.
The Board is supported in this capacity by the Audit Committee, which monitors the internal financial control procedures that are operated by the Group.
The members of the Audit Committee are all non-executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Rule 7 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Code.
During 2009, the Audit Committee was chaired by Andrew Walker until he retired at the April 2009 AGM.
Andrew was succeeded as Chairman of the Audit Committee by Chris Bailey, who had been a member of the Audit Committee since he joined the Board in January 2005.
Chris Bailey has recent and relevant experience in a senior financial executive role, having been Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004, and is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee at Rok plc.
Sir Robert Walmsley joined the Audit Committee in January 2009.
Ian Griffiths was a member of the Audit Committee throughout 2009.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The main topics considered during the meetings were: a monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: b reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems: c monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: d making recommendations to the board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: e reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and f developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 41 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Committee has reviewed the public interest disclosure policy and has arranged a further strengthening of the process through the engagement of an independent party to provide a point of contact for employees.
Employee concerns are forwarded directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Special arrangements are in place to deal with issues covered by US security legislation.
It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP, Ultras external auditors, are restricted to regulatory reporting, consultancy services associated with financial restructuring, responding to new reporting requirements, due diligence assessments of potential acquisitions and other attestation work.
The Audit Committee has decided that any individual assignments with an estimated fee in excess of 50,000 will be referred in advance to the Chairman of the Audit Committee for his approval.
In connection with due diligence work and consultancy, the Board believes that the auditors familiarity with Ultras accounting practices and the techniques that are involved in Ultras long-term contracting activities serves them well in carrying out such work.
The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte LLP on the Ultra audit is subject to a strict policy of regular rotation such that there is a change in this role at least once every five years.
This is in accordance with professional practice guidelines.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
The Committee has a policy formally to review the selection of external auditors, including consideration of whether a tender process is appropriate.
The Audit Committee, following its annual review, is satisified that Deloitte continue to provide an effective audit service and has recommended to the Board that they be re-appointed.
Accordingly, a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of non-audit services are shown in Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review all main Board and sub-committee appointments.
During 2009 the Committee, which is chaired by Julian Blogh, met once to consider the succession plan for the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Committee recommended that Douglas Caster should be appointed as Deputy Chairman with effect from the April 2010 AGM and that he should be proposed to succeed Julian Blogh as Chairman with effect from the April 2011 AGM.
The Committee also recommended that Rakesh Sharma should be promoted to Chief Operating Officer with effect from 1 January 2010, and should be proposed for election to the Board at the 2010 AGM with the intention that he should succeed Douglas Caster as Chief Executive at the 2011 AGM.
Remuneration Committee During 2009 Chris Bailey succeeded Andrew Walker as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Robert Walmsley joined the Committee in January 2009.
Ian Griffiths served on the Committee throughout the year.
It met four times during the year.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the executive Directors, including the Chief Executive, and for setting their levels of remuneration.
It also meets without the Group Chairman being present to agree his remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report is included in the Directors Report on page 46, together with details of the Directors pension entitlements, long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
It will be presented for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
Whilst not being members of the Remuneration Committee, the executive Directors meet once a year, without the non-executive Directors being present, to agree the fees for the non-executive Directors.
Evaluation of Board and Committee effectiveness Following the recommendations of the Code, the Board operates an evaluation process in which the effectiveness of the Board, its sub-committees and each individual Director are assessed over a rolling two-year period.
The Chairman is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for overseeing this process, which is carried out by an independent external consultant.
He is supported in this regard by the Company Secretary.
In 2008, the main Board and its subcommittees were reviewed, using a questionnaire that was completed independently by all members of the Board.
The scope of the review covered the Board structure, processes and administration, together with the distribution of information.
In 2009 the contribution of each individual Director was assessed by the rest of the Board.
This stage was based upon a questionnaire that was completed by each individual Director.
The results of this survey were processed and fed back separately to each individual and in total to the Chairman.
Its results were communicated to the Directors in a written report and considered at a subsequent meeting.
This review cycle is repeated every two years.
42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Directors re-election One third of the Board are required to stand for re-election each year.
Ian Griffiths and Julian Blogh, non-executive Directors, are retiring by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and are standing for re-election.
Rakesh Sharma will also be standing for election for the first time as outlined on page 40.
Succession planning The Group operates a well defined succession planning process which encompasses the executive Directors, other senior executives, business management teams, and other key individuals with special skills, knowledge or experience.
This annual process starts at the business unit level and is addressed first by Managing Directors and Presidents, then by Divisional Managing Directors, and finally by the Chief Executive.
The Group Human Resources Director is involved in every stage of the process.
The Board discusses the succession plans for the executive Directors and Divisional Managing Directors.
Directors induction and training New Directors are provided with a detailed introduction to the Group to facilitate their understanding of the Group structure and the complex nature of the diverse range of products and services provided by the businesses.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Groups businesses regularly, and Board meetings are held at different Ultra sites in order to facilitate this.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to meet senior managers to gain a different perspective on the key issues being addressed at business level.
Directors are provided with training on points of specific relevance to their roles, including an annual corporate governance update, and specialist help on complex areas such as pensions legislation.
Internal controls The Code requires that Directors should review the effectiveness of the Groups entire system of internal controls, covering business risks associated with strategic, operational and financial matters, together with those associated with Ultras information technology infrastructure.
Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
In this context the controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of the internal control system that operated during the year are described below.
Control environment Ultras organisational structure has clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authorities, which are reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that they are still relevant given the Groups current size and structure.
Appropriate ethical values and the need to maintain effective controls are communicated to managers and staff in specially designed development and training programmes.
All businesses are required to maintain written operating procedure manuals that are consistent with the control principles and policies set out in Ultras Group Operating Manual.
Acquisitions, major capital investments and contract bids above a defined value require main Board approval, with smaller investment decisions delegated to the Chief Executive.
Risk management Management is responsible for identifying the risks facing Ultras businesses and for putting procedures in place to recognise and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are assessed formally each year by the Board during the strategic planning process and steps are taken subsequently to ensure that such risks are minimised at all times.
Operational risks are monitored as part of the Groups monthly business performance review process.
Business units are required to report on all key areas of risk, highlighting situations where normal controls have failed to be fully effective and explaining what remedial actions have been taken.
Such situations are then monitored regularly until a satisfactory conclusion is reached.
The Chief Executive reports all significant deviations twice a year to the Board.
The Board maintains an Internal Audit process, carried out by Ernst & Young LLP, to review financial and information systems control procedures throughout the Group.
All significant business units are audited at least once every two years.
In addition, all newly acquired free-standing businesses are audited within a year of their acquisition date.
The lead partner of Ernst & Young reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents the findings of his team twice annually to the Audit Committee.
Progress reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to the Committee.
Ernst & Young confirms whether appropriate action has been taken to address the risks when they next visit the business concerned.
The executive Directors take an active role in identifying and assessing potential risks inherent in all aspects of Ultras activities.
This is achieved both through the normal monthly business review process and also through day-to-day management contact.
The Managing Directors and finance heads of all business units are required to give a formal written representation to the Board every year, confirming that they accept responsibility for maintaining effective internal controls and that they have disclosed full details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their businesses, either in their monthly internal compliance statements or separately if appropriate.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 43 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Risk management continued In summary, the Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework on a regular basis.
Internal control procedures are reviewed and updated where necessary.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting covering key performance indicators such as order cover, sales, profit and cash flow.
The five year strategic plan and annual budget for each business are approved by the executive Directors.
The Board approves the Groups consolidated plan and budget.
The actual performance of the Group and the key variances against budget are reported monthly to the Board, normally during the third week of the following month.
Revised forecasts for the half-year and full-year are prepared monthly for each business unit, and for the Group as a whole, and presented to the Board.
Shareholder communication The Group encourages two-way communications with both institutional and private investors and endeavours to respond promptly to queries received.
Ultras website provides detailed financial and business information about the Group.
Meetings between the executive Directors, institutional shareholders, analysts and other market professionals are held regularly as a part of Ultras investor relations programme.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting, to ask questions during the meeting and to meet individual Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Documentation relevant to Ultras governance framework is available for inspection before the Meeting, including the terms of reference of the Board and its sub-committees and the Directors individual contracts of employment.
The terms of reference can also be found on the Groups website at www.
Statement of going concern Ultras banking facilities amount to 200m in total, plus a 10m overdraft.
They were established in two tranches.
The first tranche was set up in 2005 and is provided by a small syndicate of banks.
The facility comprises 120m of revolving credit, denominated in Sterling, US dollars and Canadian dollars.
This facility was due to expire in November 2010, but was refinanced in February 2010.
The amount of the facility has been maintained at 120m and its duration extended to September 2013.
The financial covenants remain unchanged.
One new bank has been added to the syndicate.
The second tranche provides a further 80m of revolving credit.
It was put in place in September 2008 with the support of the existing banking syndicate in order to fund the eight acquisitions that the Group made during the year.
This facility is due to expire in September 2011.
As well as being used to fund acquisitions, the banking facilities are also used for other balance sheet and operational needs, including the funding of day-to-day working capital requirements.
The US and Canadian dollar borrowings also represent natural hedges against assets denominated in these currencies.
The Groups banking covenants have all been met during the past year with a comfortable margin and the expectation is that this will continue.
Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity risk can be found in Note 22 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management.
Though global macro-economic conditions remain uncertain, the long-term nature of Ultras business and its positioning in high growth sectors of its markets, taken together with the Groups forward order book provide a satisfactory level of confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
At the beginning of 2010 Ultra had firm orders in place for over 60% of analysts consensus forecast sales in the year.
As a consequence the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to mitigate any material adverse consequences of the current economic conditions.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that Ultra has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt a going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board, D. Caster, Chief Executive P. Dean, Finance Director 26 February 2010 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45 Corporate governance
