Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Nomination Committee Terms of Reference The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent Nonthemselves for re-election at the 2009 AGMs.
During 2009, the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Following the retirement of Committee also proposed the nominations of Louise Fresco, Ann David Simon at the 2009 AGMs, it is chaired by Jeroen van der Fudge and Paul Walsh as Non-Executive Directors at the AGMs in Veer.
Its other members are Michael Treschow and, following his May 2009.
These nominees were chosen to further strengthen the appointment at the 2009 AGMs, Paul Walsh.
The Group Secretary range of expertise available on the Boards, as well as responding acts as secretary to the Committee.
Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh were subsequently appointed to the Remuneration Committee and Paul The Nomination Committee is responsible for drawing up selection Walsh was also appointed to the Nomination Committee.
In criteria and appointment procedures for Directors.
Under Unilevers making these appointments the Committee was supported by an corporate governance arrangements Executive and Non-Executive independent executive search rm chosen by the Committee Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual which had been engaged to identify suitable candidates for the General Meetings.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for roles required.
recommending candidates for nomination as Executive Directors, including the Chief Executive officer, and Non-Executive Directors In 2009 an independent executive search rm chosen by the each year based on the process of evaluations referred to below.
committee was also engaged to identify candidates for the role After Directors have been appointed by shareholders the of Chief Financial officer, in the light of the resignation of Jim Committee recommends to the Board candidates for election as Lawrence as from the year end.
The process resulted in the Committees recommendation to the Boards to nominate Chairman and Vice-Chairman.
The Committee also has responsibility for supervising the policy of the Chief Executive Jean-Marc Hut as Jim Lawrences successor.
The Committee is pleased to have identied a strong candidate whose background officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management and it keeps oversight of all matters relating and expertise in the corporate and financial world will be important in helping realise our growth ambitions.
Following a to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Boards.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available on smooth transition Jean-Marc Hut became Chief Financial officer in February 2010, and he will be nominated for election as an our website www.
com investorrelations corp governance Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
Process for the appointment of Directors The Committee received a full presentation of Unilever initiatives Unilever has formal procedures for evaluation of the Boards, the being implemented in 2009 in relation to Senior Leadership Board Committees and the individual Directors.
The Chairman, changes and endorsed managements approach.
A successful in conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, leads the diversity programme was considered essential for Unilever and as process whereby the Board assesses its own performance and the part of establishing an articulated performance culture.
results of the evaluations are provided to the Committee when it discusses the nominations for re-election as Directors.
The Committee reviewed and approved the external benchmarking of the capabilities, strengths and opportunities of Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee seeks the the Senior Executives carried out by the Chief Executive officer services of specialist recruitment rms and other external experts and Chief HR officer.
Periodically throughout the year the to assist in nding individuals with the appropriate skills and Committee reviewed with the Chief Executive officer proposed expertise.
changes to roles and responsibilities amongst senior executives.
In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed Board During the year the Committee reviewed the Board prole and Prole of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into updated the composition, desired expertise and experience and account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch availability elements of the prole, to reect the current Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined Code on requirements of the Boards.
Under the terms of The Governance of Unilever the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive An internal evaluation was undertaken by the Chairman and Directors.
To represent Unilevers areas of interest, the prole also Senior Independent Director with the assistance of the Group indicates there should be a strong representation from Developing Secretary during 2009 in relation to the performance of the and Emerging markets as well as from Europe and North America.
Boards, of the Chairman, of the individual Directors and of the Non-Executive Directors should be independent of Unilever and Board Committees.
This evaluation, as in the previous two years, free from any conicts of interest.
The prole looks at diversity was based on the completion of questionnaires and a series of in terms of nationality, race, gender and relevant expertise and interviews with individual Directors.
The Committee has also directs that, wherever possible, the Boards should reect Unilevers carried out an assessment of its own performance, led by the consumer base.
Activities of the Committee during the year Supported by an independent executive search rm, the Committee The Committee met six times in 2009.
All meetings were attended carried out a search for a new Non-Executive Director and is by Jeroen van der Veer and Michael Treschow.
Paul Walsh delighted that The Rt Hon Sir Malcolm Rifkind MP has agreed to join attended two meetings after joining the Committee in May 2009. our Boards.
Sir Malcolms experience will further strengthen the The members also regularly met outside of formal Committee expertise of the Boards particularly in the areas of governance and meetings to discuss succession issues.
Sir Malcolm will be nominated by the Committee for election as Non-Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
At the AGMs in May 2009, David Simon retired as a Non-Executive Director.
Jeroen van der Veer succeeded David Simon as Jeroen van der Veer Chairman of the Nomination Committee Vice-Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Michael Treschow Nomination Committee from the conclusion of the 2009 AGMs.
Paul Walsh 66 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
