Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance Introduction The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards have ultimate Unilever is subject to various corporate governance requirements responsibility for the management, general affairs, direction and and best practice codes, the most relevant being those in the performance of our business as a whole.
The responsibility of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States.
It is Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as Unilevers practice to comply, where practicable, with the highest Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, with the Executive level of these codes and respond to developments appropriately.
Directors having additional responsibilities for the operation of the The text that follows describes the corporate governance business as determined by the Boards and the Chief Executive arrangements operating within Unilever.
The Unilever Group Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility which Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC are the two parent companies of are reserved to the Boards and other areas for which matters are the Unilever Group, and together with their respective group delegated to the Chief Executive officer.
The Boards have also companies, NV and PLC operate effectively as a single economic established committees whose actions are regularly reported to and entity.
This is achieved by a series of agreements between NV and monitored by the Boards, and these are described on pages 53 and PLC the Foundation Agreements, see page 56, together with 54.
Further details of how our Boards effectively operate as one special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities, are set out NV and PLC have the same Directors, adopt the same accounting in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, which can be principles, and pay dividends to their respective shareholders on an found at www.
com investorrelations corp governance equalised basis.
NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting Appointment of Directors consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Directors are normally appointed by shareholders at the AGMs.
Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective All existing Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves consolidated accounts.
for re-election every year, and shareholders can remove any of them by a simple majority vote.
A list of our current Directors and the NV and PLC have agreed to co-operate in all areas and to ensure periods during which they have served as such is set out on pages that all group companies act accordingly.
NV and PLC are holding 22 and 23. and service companies, and the business activity of Unilever is carried out by their subsidiaries around the world.
Shares in group In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC or the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which by the two companies in varying proportions.
are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election as Directors.
This is NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze Vennootschap achieved through a nomination procedure operated by the Boards of Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927, and PLC was NV and PLC through Unilevers Nomination Committee.
incorporated under the name Lever Brothers Limited in England and Wales in 1894.
The two companies have different shareholder Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its constituencies and shareholders can hold shares in either or both individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends to the companies but cannot convert or exchange the shares of one Boards a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs of both NV company for shares of the other.
NV is listed in Amsterdam and and PLC.
In addition, shareholders are able to nominate Directors, New York, and PLC is listed in London and New York.
and to do so they must put a resolution to both meetings in line with local requirements.
However, in order to ensure that the Boards Unilever PLCs and Unilever N. V. s respective Articles of Association remain identical, anyone being elected as a Director of NV must also contain, among other things, the objects clause, which sets out be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa.
Therefore, if an the scope of activities that PLC and NV are authorised to individual fails to be elected to both companies then he or she will undertake.
PLCs and NVs Articles of Association are drafted to be unable to take their place on the Boards.
give a wide scope and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business as a holding company, to manage any The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing Directors companies in which it has an interest and to operate and carry cannot be changed without the permission, in the case of NV, of the into effect the Equalisation Agreement.
It is proposed that at the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 1-2,400 inclusive 2010 AGM the objects clause be removed from PLCs Articles of and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of PLC's deferred stock.
The Association so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
NV special ordinary shares may only be transferred to one or more other holders of such shares.
The joint holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Our risk management approach and associated systems of internal Holdings Limited, which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
The control are described on page 35.
Boards of N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the Nomination Committee, which comprises The Boards Non-Executive Directors of Unilever only.
The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors and have the same Chairman.
This guarantees unity of governance and Board meetings management by ensuring that all matters are considered by the Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important Boards as a single intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the corporate events and actions, such as: same set of facts, save where specic local factors apply.
50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 approval of corporate strategy: evaluation process which includes an extensive questionnaire for approval of the corporate Annual Plan: all Board members to complete.
In addition, each year the oversight of the performance of the business: Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the performance of review of risks and controls: each individual Board member, including an interview with each.
authorisation of major transactions: The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts: Senior Independent Director.
Committees of the Boards evaluate declaration of dividends: themselves under supervision of their respective chairmen taking agreement of quarterly results announcements: into account the views of respective committee members and the convening of shareholders meetings: Boards.
The results of the various evaluations were discussed by nominations for Board appointments: the Boards and changes were made in respect of Board practices approval of Board remuneration policy: and and processes where considered necessary.
The Boards agreed to review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees.
an enhanced Board training programme in 2010 that would concentrate on further instruction and familiarisation with Unilever The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board and its businesses.
In addition, formal training for Non-Executive meetings for the year ended 31 December 2009.
If Directors are Directors will also be enhanced in 2010, and all Directors will be unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity before the encouraged to attend events of importance in Unilevers calendar meeting to discuss with the Chairman any agenda items or Board such as Investor Relations seminars.
papers: Board support Name Attendance The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors and ensure that Board procedures are complied with.
The Boards have the Michael Treschow 8 of 8 Paul Polman 8 of 8 power to appoint and remove the Group Secretary.
James Lawrence 8 of 8 Leon Brittan 7 of 8 The Group Secretary is Steve Williams, who replaced Sven Wim Dik 8 of 8 Dumoulin in that role in October 2009.
Louise Fresco from 14 May 2009 5 of 5 Ann Fudge from 14 May 2009 5 of 5 Charles Golden 7 of 8 A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to seek Byron Grote 7 of 8 independent professional advice at Unilevers expense.
Narayana Murthy 8 of 8 Hixonia Nyasulu 7 of 8 Board changes David Simon to 14 May 2009 3 of 3 The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on pages Kees Storm 8 of 8 Jeroen van der Veer 7 of 8 22 and 23.
Paul Walsh from 14 May 2009 5 of 5 Following his appointment as a Director in October 2008, Paul Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
Polman succeeded Patrick Cescau as Chief Executive officer in Executive Director January 2009.
Board meetings are normally held either in London or Rotterdam, Leon Brittan, Wim Dik, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, Narayana with one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
The Chairman is Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu, Kees Storm, Michael Treschow and assisted by the Group Secretary, who ensures that the Boards are Jeroen van der Veer were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors of supplied with all the information necessary for their deliberations.
In addition, Louise Fresco, Ann The Chairman and the Group Secretary involve the Senior Fudge and Paul Walsh were appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
Independent Director see page 52 in the arrangements for Board meetings.
At the 2009 AGMs, David Simon retired as a Non-Executive Director.
At the conclusion of the 2009 AGMs, Jeroen van Board induction and training der Veer was appointed to the roles of Senior Independent Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors Director, Vice-Chairman of NV and PLC, and Chairman of our Information Pack and are briefed thoroughly on their Remuneration and Nomination Committees that David Simon responsibilities and the business.
Ongoing training is provided for held up to the date of his retirement.
Directors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated updates, teach-ins at Board or Board committee meetings on, among other Jim Lawrence resigned as an Executive Director on 31 December things, Unilevers business, environmental, social and corporate 2009, and following a smooth transition Jean-Marc Hut was governance, regulatory developments and investor relations appointed Chief Financial officer in February 2010 and will be matters.
In 2009, a Board meeting was held at the ofces of proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
Unilever in China which included customer visits to local retail outlets.
At the 2010 AGMs all current Executive and Non-Executive Directors will be nominated for re-election, with the exception of Board evaluation Leon Brittan, Wim Dik and Narayana Murthy who will be retiring The evaluation process of our Boards consists of an internal as Non-Executive Directors at the end of our 2010 AGMs.
Leon exercise performed annually with an independent third-party Brittan will also step down as Chairman of the Corporate evaluation carried out when the Boards consider appropriate.
The Responsibility and Reputation Committee.
last time an independent third-party evaluation was carried out was in 2006.
Since 2007 the Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, has conducted the internal Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance continued Chairman and Chief Executive officer commitment or conict of interest, and Unilever Executives must Unilever has a separate independent Non-Executive Chairman and at all times ensure that their time commitment to Unilever takes Chief Executive officer.
There is a clear division of responsibilities precedence over any outside directorship.
Fees paid in connection between their roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for with an outside directorship may be retained by the individual, leadership of the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting reecting that any outside directorship is for the responsibility of their agendas.
the individual and that Unilever takes no responsibility in this regard.
The Chief Executive officer has been entrusted, within the parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC Non-Executive Directors and in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, with The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution all the Boards powers, authorities and discretions in relation to the of the Boards duties, taking into account their specic operational management of Unilever.
The Chief Executive officer responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory.
In particular, they has the authority to determine which duties regarding the comprise the principal external presence in the governance of operational management of the companies and their business Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
See pages 22 enterprises will be carried out under his responsibility by one or and 23 for their biographies.
more Executive Directors or by one or more other persons.
This provides a basis for the Unilever Executive team UEx that is Role and Responsibility chaired by and reports to the Chief Executive officer.
For UEx The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Nonmembers biographies see page 24.
For our business structure, Executive Directors are: please refer to Our business on pages 26 and 27. supervision of and advice to the Chief Executive officer: Executive Directors developing strategy with the Chief Executive officer: During 2009, Unilever had two Executive Directors, the Chief scrutiny of performance of the business and Chief Executive Executive officer and Chief Financial officer, who were also officer: members of the UEx, and are full-time employees of Unilever.
oversight of risks and controls: reporting of performance: Jim Lawrence resigned as an Executive Director on 31 December remuneration of and succession planning for Executive 2009, and following a smooth transition Jean-Marc Hut was Directors: and appointed Chief Financial officer in February 2010 and will be governance and compliance.
proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the relevant experience and international outlook, as well as for their AGMs each year, and the Nomination Committee carefully independence.
They form the Audit Committee, the Nomination considers each nomination for reappointment.
Executive Directors Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate stop holding executive ofce on ceasing to be Directors.
The Responsibility and Reputation Committee, and the roles and Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement of membership of these Board committees are described on pages 53 the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months notice of and 54.
The prole set by the Boards for the Non-Executive termination of employment is in line with both the practice of Directors and the schedule used for orderly succession planning many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior can be found on our website at executives within Unilever.
It is our policy to set the level of www.
com investorrelations corp governance severance payments for Executive Directors at no more than one years salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Meetings Remuneration Committee, nd this manifestly unreasonable The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the given the circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the Chairman to consider specic agenda items and wide-ranging business We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or matters of relevance to the Group.
addition, the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman usually meet before each Board meeting with the Chief Executive There are no family relationships between any of our Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, other senior executives and the Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive Group Secretary.
Directors, and none of our Executive Directors or other key management personnel are elected or appointed under any Senior Independent Director arrangement or understanding, either with any major shareholder, Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed Jeroen van der Veer customer, supplier or otherwise.
as Senior Independent Director following David Simons retirement at the 2009 AGMs.
He acts as their spokesman, and is consulted Outside appointments by the Chairman on the agenda and arrangements for Board Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group meetings.
He is also, in appropriate cases, a point of contact for of involvement by Unilever executives acting as directors of other shareholders and other stakeholders.
companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their experience and knowledge.
The number of outside directorships Tenure of listed companies is generally limited to one per individual, and Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election in the case of publicly listed companies approval is required from each year at the AGMs.
Although the Dutch Corporate the Chairman.
Outside directorships must not involve an excessive Governance Code sets the suggested length of tenure at a 52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Boards concluded that none of these relationships impact the maximum of twelve years for Non-Executive Directors, they independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned, and have normally serve for a maximum of nine years in accordance with satisfied themselves that the services provided by Paton Tupper the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Their Associates Pty Limited and Barloworld Limited, of which Hixonia nomination for re-election is subject to continued good Nyasulu is a director and shareholder and director respectively, to performance which is evaluated by the Boards, based on Unilever South Africa is not material.
The Boards further concluded the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
The that Narayana Murthys directorship of HSBC Holdings plc, one of Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination Unilevers preferred banks, is not impacted by the banking for reappointment.
relationship and therefore that he should be considered independent.
The Boards have also satisfied themselves that Remuneration Leon Brittans position at UBS Investment Bank and UBS Securities The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined Company Limited does not involve him in any way in its broking by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at relationship with Unilever.
the AGMs in 2007, and it is reported on page 73.
We do not grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed guarantees nor are they entitled to any severance payments.
under any arrangement or understanding, either with any major Details of the engagement of our Non-Executive Directors can shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
be seen on the Unilever website at www.
com investorrelations corp governance Committees Other appointments Non-Executive Directors may serve on boards of other companies, Board Committees provided such service does not involve a conict of interest or The Boards have established the committees described below, all restrict their ability to discharge their duties to Unilever.
formally set up by Board resolutions with carefully dened remits.
They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and report Independence regularly to the Boards.
For all committees, if Directors are unable Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which is to attend a meeting, they are given the opportunity before the essentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key meeting to discuss with the Chairman of the committee any Committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive agenda items or committee papers.
All committees are provided Directors can be considered to be independent.
with sufficient resources to undertake their duties, and the terms of reference for each committee can be found on our website at Our denition of independence for Directors is set out in the www.
com investorrelations corp governance document entitled The Governance of Unilever, and is derived from the applicable denitions in use in the Netherlands, the UK Audit Committee and the US.
Our Boards consider all of our Non-Executive Directors The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Nonto be independent of Unilever following the conclusion of a Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such thorough review of all relevant relationships of the Non-Executive members.
It is chaired by Kees Storm, and its other members are Directors, and their related or connected persons.
Wim Dik, Charles Golden and Byron Grote.
Wim Dik will step down as a member of the Committee following his retirement as a The UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance suggests that Director at the 2010 AGMs in May.
The Boards have satisfied length of tenure is a factor to consider when determining themselves that all the current members of the Audit Committee independence of a non-executive director.
The UK Combined are competent in financial matters and have recent and relevant Code also provides that a non-executive director who serves more experience and that, for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley than six years should be subject to particularly rigorous review, Act of 2002, Kees Storm is the Audit Committees financial expert.
and if more than nine years should be subject to annual reThe Audit Committees meetings are attended, by invitation, by election.
It is our standard practice for all Directors to seek rethe Chief Financial officer, the Chief Legal officer, the Group election annually.
Leon Brittan has served on the Boards since Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
He continues to demonstrate the essential characteristics of independence expected by the Boards as was confirmed The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fullling their oversight through our annual performance review.
His length of service, responsibilities in respect of: the integrity of Unilevers financial and his resulting experience and knowledge of Unilever, are statements: risk management and internal control arrangements: viewed by the Boards as being especially valuable, particularly in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: the the light of recent changes to the Boards.
Leon Brittan will retire performance, qualications and independence of the external as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the 2010 AGMs.
auditors: and the performance of the internal audit function.
The Audit Committee is supplied with all information necessary for the A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships, performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief Financial exist between various of our Non-Executive Directors and officer and Group Controller, and both the Chief Auditor and the companies that provide banking, insurance or financial advisory external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee services to Unilever.
Our Boards considered in each case the separately from management.
The Audit Committee is directly number of other companies that also provide or could readily responsible, subject to local laws regarding shareholder approval, provide such services to Unilever, the signicance to those for the nomination, compensation and oversight of the external companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles of auditors.
The Audit Committee is compliant with the rules the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and the regarding audit committees applicable in the Netherlands, the UK signicance of those roles to our Non-Executive Directors.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance continued The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Audit The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2009: Remuneration Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2009: Name Attendance Name Attendance Kees Storm Chairman 5 of 5 Jeroen van der Veer Chairman from 14 May 2009 7 of 7 Wim Dik 5 of 5 David Simon Chairman to 14 May 2009 3 of 3 Charles Golden 5 of 5 Ann Fudge from 14 May 2009 4 of 4 Byron Grote 5 of 5 Michael Treschow 7 of 7 Paul Walsh from 14 May 2009 2 of 4 Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
See page 63 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 67 to 73.
Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee The Nomination Committee recommends to the Boards candidates The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee has for the positions of Director.
It also has responsibilities for responsibility for the oversight of Unilevers conduct with regard to succession planning and oversight of corporate governance its corporate and societal obligations and its reputation as a matters.
It is supplied with information by the Group Secretary.
It comprises a minimum of three Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Leon Brittan and its other The Nomination Committee comprises two independent Nonmembers are Louise Fresco, who joined the Committee following Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Nomination Committee the 2009 AGMs, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu.
Both is chaired by Jeroen van der Veer, following the retirement of Leon Brittan and Narayana Murthy will step down as members of David Simon as Chairman of the Committee at the 2009 AGMs.
the Committee following their retirement as Directors at the 2010 Its other members are Michael Treschow and Paul Walsh, who AGMs in May.
joined the Committee following the 2009 AGMs.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee meetings for Nomination Committee meetings for the year ended the year ended 31 December 2009: 31 December 2009: Name Attendance Name Attendance Leon Brittan Chairman 4 of 4 Louise Fresco from 14 May 2009 2 of 2 Jeroen van der Veer Chairman from 14 May 2009 6 of 6 Narayana Murthy 3 of 4 David Simon Chairman to 14 May 2009 3 of 3 Hixonia Nyasulu 4 of 4 Michael Treschow 6 of 6 Paul Walsh from 14 May 2009 2 of 3 Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
See pages 64 and 65 for the Report of the Corporate See page 66 for the Report of the Nomination Committee Responsibility and Reputation Committee to shareholders.
Routine business committees Remuneration Committee Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and The Remuneration Committee reviews Directors remuneration when they are necessary.
They comprise any two of the Directors and is responsible for the executive share-based incentive plans.
It and certain senior executives and ofcers, and they administer or determines, within the parameters set by our shareholders, specic implement certain matters previously agreed by our Boards or the remuneration arrangements for each of the Executive Directors, Chief Executive officer.
The Group Secretary is responsible for the the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive operation of these committees.
Directors and the policy for the remuneration of the tier of management directly below the Boards.
The Committee is advised Disclosure Committee by the Group Secretary on matters of corporate governance.
The Boards have set up a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for helping the Boards ensure that financial and other The Remuneration Committee comprises a minimum of three information required to be disclosed publicly is disclosed in a independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration timely manner and that the information that is disclosed is Committee is chaired by Jeroen van der Veer, following the complete and accurate in all material aspects.
The Committee retirement of David Simon as Chairman of the Committee at the comprises the Group Controller Chairman, the Group Secretary 2009 AGMs.
Its other members are Ann Fudge, Michael Treschow and Chief Legal officer, the Group Treasurer and the NV Corporate and Paul Walsh.
Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh joined the Committee Legal Counsel.
54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Director matters which organises presentations for analysts and investors, and such presentations are generally made available on our website.
Conicts of interest Briengs on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are We attach special importance to avoiding conicts of interest accessible by telephone or via our website.
For further information between NV and PLC and their Directors.
The Boards are visit our website at www.
com investorrelations responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid conicts of interest by Board members.
Conicts of interest are The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results understood not to include transactions and other activities announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, are between companies in the Unilever Group.
briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to their responsibilities.
Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues Authorisation of situational conicts are given by the Boards to the directly with the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Senior relevant Director in accordance with the Articles of Association of Independent Director.
The authorisation includes conditions relating to keeping Unilever information condential and to the exclusion from Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders receiving and discussing relevant information at Board meetings.
at the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and enquiries Situational conicts are reviewed annually by the Boards as part of during the course of the year.
We take the views of our the determination of Director independence, and in between shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Boards of any legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate relevant changes to the situation.
A Director may not vote on, or way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
be counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of the Boards in respect of any contract in which he or she has a material General Meetings of shareholders interest.
The procedures that Unilever have put in place to deal The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC is set with conicts of interest have operated effectively.
out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC.
It typically includes approval consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts Various formal matters and remuneration framework, appointment of Directors, The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not appointment of external auditors, and authorisation for the Boards limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have to allot and repurchase shares, and to restrict pre-emptive rights of the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the shareholders.
adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as dened in its Articles of Association, without the approval of shareholders any exceptions At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business requiring an ordinary resolution.
over the last year and there is a discussion of current issues.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors questions, and the question-and-answer sessions form an of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
However, important part of the meetings.
the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at times in Unilever.
and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are normally held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally held in London, on indemnification consecutive days.
The notices calling the meetings normally go out Directors indemnification, including the terms thereof, is provided more than 30 days prior to the meetings.
for in Article 19 of NVs Articles of Association.
The power to indemnify Directors is provided for in PLCs Articles of Association We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
entitled to address the meetings.
Appropriate qualifying third-party Directors and Ofcers liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors throughout the Electronic communication financial year and is currently in force.
We are committed to efforts to continue more effective ways of communication with our shareholders around the AGMs.
Electronic In addition, PLC provides indemnities including, where applicable, communication is already an important and established medium a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision to the Directors for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information from time to time of two subsidiaries that act as trustee and reports, and for voting purposes.
respectively of two of Unilever's UK pension schemes.
Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Shareholders of PLC can choose to receive electronic notication that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have Shareholder matters been published on our website, instead of receiving printed copies, and can also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf Relations with shareholders and other investors at the AGM.
We believe it is important both to explain our business developments and financial results to investors and to Registration for electronic communication by shareholders of PLC understand their objectives.
com shareholderservices The UK Companies Act 2006 contains provisions facilitating The Chief Financial officer has lead responsibility for investor communications between companies and their shareholders relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive officer.
They are supported by our Investor Relations department Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55 Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance continued electronically and PLC has established such a facility after Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least consulting with its shareholders to offer them the opportunity to 5% of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who review their method of receiving shareholder communications in hold on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can the future.
require PLC to propose a resolution at a general meeting.
PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary Voting rights shares are able to convene a general meeting of PLC.
Shareholders that hold NV shares on the record date are entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings.
The record date is set Required majorities by the Board at a date not more than 30 days before the meeting, Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder and shares are not blocked between the record date and the date meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are of the meeting.
NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs nominal capital that they hold.
This means that they can cast one Articles of Association.
For example, there are special requirements vote for each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
for resolutions relating to the alteration of the Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the alteration of the Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy.
Similar arrangements Equalisation Agreement see below.
apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and the holders of NV preference shares see page 59.
A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only be 1 made by the Board of NV.
A proposal to alter the Articles of PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3 9p nominal capital Association of PLC can be made either by the Board of PLC or by that they hold.
This means shareholders can cast one vote for each shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK Companies PLC ordinary share, or PLC American Depositary Receipt of shares.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles Proxy appointments need to be with our Registrars 48 hours of Association of PLC, PLCs Articles of Association may be before the meeting, and the shareholding at this time will amended by a special resolution.
Proposals to alter the provisions determine both the right to vote and the ability to attend the in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively relating to meeting.
the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings of the holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred stock.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC can be found on NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective Notices our website at of Meetings which can be found on our website at www.
com investorrelations corp governance www.
com investorrelations corp governance Right to hold shares Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling right to hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations on the them to authorise and instruct a notary public or Citibank, N. A. right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of respectively to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV NV and PLC imposed by foreign law.
N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited the holders of NVs special Foundation Agreements shares, other group companies of NV which hold ordinary or preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which owns half Equalisation Agreement of PLCs deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at General The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the Meetings.
shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation Agreement Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of AGMs regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
The final vote is published at the meetings Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy votes, is put on same financial periods and accounting policies.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic Shareholder proposed resolutions interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or together hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or We pay ordinary dividends for NV and PLC on the same day.
depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their parts of hold shares or depositary receipts worth or representing the the current profits and free reserves.
We pay the same amount market value in shares as set in respect thereto by or pursuant to on each NV share as on one PLC share calculated at the relevant the law currently 50 million.
They must submit these requests at exchange rate.
As agreed at the 2009 AGMs and separate least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting, and the meetings of ordinary shareholders, the Equalisation Agreement request will be honoured unless, in the opinion of the Boards, it is was in part amended to allow Unilever to move to quarterly against a substantive interest of the Company.
Shareholders who dividend payments with effect from 1 January 2010.
Interim together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can dividends are determined in euros and converted into equivalent also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings to deal with specic resolutions.
56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 sterling and US dollar amounts using exchange rates issued by the Under Article 2 and 3 of the NV and PLC Articles of Association European Central Bank two days before the announcement of the respectively, each company is required to carry out the Equalisation dividend.
The new method for determining dividend payments Agreement with the other.
Both documents state that the was used for the 2009 interim dividends of NV and PLC.
This Agreement cannot be changed or terminated without the amendment has enabled us to change to a simpler and more approval of shareholders.
For NV, the General Meeting can decide transparent dividend practice for the Unilever Group, resulting in to alter or terminate the Equalisation Agreement at the proposal more frequent payments to shareholders, and better alignment of the Board.
The necessary approval of the General Meeting is with the cash ow generation of the business.
then that at least one half of the total issued ordinary capital must be represented at an ordinary shareholders meeting, where the The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had majority must vote in favour: and if they would be disadvantaged losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, the loss or or the agreement is to be terminated at least two-thirds of the shortfall would be made up out of: total issued preference share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders meeting, where at least three-quarters of the current profits of the other company after it has paid its them must vote in favour.
For PLC, the necessary approval must be own preference shareholders : given by the holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a then its own free reserves: and General Meeting and the holders of the ordinary shares, by a then the free reserves of the other company.
simple majority voting at a General Meeting where the majority of the ordinary shares in issue are represented.
If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would follow the same procedure, except that the current profits of the The Equalisation Agreement can be found on our website at other company would only be used after it had paid its own www.
com investorrelations corp governance ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more appropriate than, for example, using its own free reserves.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and So far, NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
If for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They we did, the payment from one company to the other would shall exchange all relevant information about their respective be subject to any United Kingdom and Dutch tax and exchange businesses the intention being to create and maintain a common control laws applicable at that time.
operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
The Deed illustrates some of the information which makes up this Under the Equalisation Agreement, the two companies are common platform, such as the mutual exchange and free use of permitted to pay different dividends in the event of an know-how, patents, trade marks and all other commercially unreasonable increase or decrease in dividend pay-out of one valuable information.
of the companies due to currency uctuations and in the event that either the UK or Dutch government imposes restrictions on The Deed contains provisions which allow the Directors of NV and dividend pay-outs.
In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could PLC to take any actions to ensure that the dividend-generating pay different amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it capacity of each of NV and PLC is aligned with the economic appropriate.
interests of their respective shareholders.
These provisions also allow assets to be transferred between NV and PLC and their If both companies were to go into liquidation, NV and PLC would associated companies as dened in the Deed to ensure that each use any funds legally available to pay the prior claims of their assets are allocated in the most efficient manner.
Then they would use any surplus to arrangements are designed to create a balance between the pay each others preference shareholders, if necessary.
After these two parent companies and the funds generated by them, for claims had been met, they would pay out any equalisation or the benefit of their respective sets of shareholders.
dividend reserve to their own shareholders before pooling the remaining surplus.
This would be distributed to the ordinary The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing shareholders of both companies on an equal basis.
If one company Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing were to go into liquidation, we would apply the same principles as between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, if both had gone into liquidation simultaneously.
guarantee the borrowings of the other.
The two companies also jointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
These In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain be made in ordinary shares.
Again, we would ensure that significant public borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions.
The subscription price for one new NV share would have to be the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for one new PLC share.
Neither company can issue or reduce capital without the consent of the other.
The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment under the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to the income statement for the financial year in question.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance continued Share capital matters The total number of voting rights attached to PLCs outstanding shares are shown hereunder: Share capital Total number of votes % of issued capital NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2009 was made up of: a 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares 1,310,156,361 99.76 274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares of 100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.24 0.16 each: a Of which 26,696,994 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 1,028,568 split into 2,400 ordinary shares numbered 23,850,000 shares were held by NV group companies or by share 1 to 2,400, known as special shares: and trusts as at 31 December 2009.
These shares are not voted on.
113,599,014 split into several classes 4%, 6% and 7% of cumulative preference shares nancing preference shares.
The Board of PLC may, under sections 551 and 561 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and subject to the passing of the appropriate The voting rights attached to NV's outstanding shares are split as resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue shares within the follows: limits prescribed within the resolutions.
At the 2009 AGM the Total number of votes % of issued capital Directors were authorised to issue new shares pursuant to section a 80 of the UK Companies Act 1985, limited to a maximum of 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700 70.53 2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.26 13,290,000 nominal value, which at the time represented 750,000 4% cumulative approximately 33% of the Companys issued Ordinary share preference shares 200,906,250 8.26 capital and pursuant to section 89 of that Act, to disapply pre- 161,060 6% cumulative emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLCs issued ordinary preference shares 431,409,276 17.75 share capital.
These authorities are renewed annually and from 29,000 7% cumulative preference shares 77,678,312 3.20 2010 will be sought under the applicable sections of the UK Companies Act 2006. a Of which 141,560,629 shares were held in treasury and 28,618,015 shares were held in connection with share-based payments as at 31 December 2009.
At the 2009 AGM the Board of PLC was authorised in accordance with its Articles of Association to make market purchases of its NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe ordinary shares representing just under 10% of the Companys for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting of issued capital and within the limits prescribed within the resolution Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such until the earlier of the 6-month anniversary after the 2009 year purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting.
At the AGM held end or the conclusion of the 2010 AGM.
A similar authority will be on 14 May 2009 the Board was designated, in accordance with sought at the 2010 AGM of PLC pursuant to the UK Companies Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, as Act 2006. the corporate body authorised until 14 November 2010 to resolve on the issue of or on the granting of rights to subscribe for Margarine Union 1930 Limited: Conversion Rights shares not yet issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory preThe first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company emption rights that accrue to shareholders upon issue of shares, which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a on the understanding that this authority is limited to 10% of the large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
issued share capital of the Company, plus an additional 10% of the issued share capital of the Company in connection with or on When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the the occasion of mergers and acquisitions.
beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of special shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, a At the 2009 AGM the Board of NV was authorised, in accordance subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, until end of the year 2038 into 70,875,000 PLC ordinary shares of 1 14 November 2010 to cause the Company to buy back its own 3 p each.
This currently represents 5.4% of PLCs issued ordinary 9 shares and depositary receipts thereof, with a maximum of 10% capital.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the of issued share capital, either through purchase on a stock descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding expenses, not lower This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in than the nominal value of the shares and not higher than 10% specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
above the average of the closing price of the shares on Eurolist by PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the special Euronext Amsterdam for the five business days before the day on shares.
which the purchase is made.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
As at 1 March 2010, around 76% of NVs ordinary shares and around 34% of NVs 7% cumulative preference shares were held PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2009 was made up of: by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce Stichting Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V., a trust ofce with a board 40,760,420 split into 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares of independent of Unilever.
As part of its corporate objects, the 1 3 9p each: and Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for these shares.
58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofces shareholding These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as Foundation NV Trust Ofces shareholding uctuates daily its are the NV ordinary and 7% preference shares themselves.
holdings on 1 March 2010 were: Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances NV ordinary shares of 0.16: 1,295,616,498 75.56% : and exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares NV 7% cumulative preference shares of 428.57: 9,776 33.71%.
Further information on the Foundation, including its Articles of Holders of depositary receipts are entitled to dividends and all Association and Conditions of Administration, can be found on its economic benets on the underlying shares held by the website at www.
The members of the board at the foundation are Mr J H Schraven Requirements and compliance general chairman, Mr P P fide Koning, Prof Emeritus Dr L Koopmans and Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the Mr A A Olijslager.
Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US.
In this section we report on our compliance with the corporate The Foundation reports periodically on its activities.
governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with Voting by holders of depositary receipts corporate governance standards in the US.
Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice equated Under the European Takeover Directive, the UK Companies Act with shareholders.
They can attend all General Meetings of NV, 2006 and rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, we either personally or by proxy, and also have the right to speak.
The are required to provide information on contracts and other holders of the depositary receipts will then automatically, without arrangements essential or material to the business of the Group.
limitation and under all circumstances, receive a voting proxy on We believe we do not have any such contracts or arrangements.
behalf of the Foundation to vote on the underlying shares.
Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to The Foundation is obliged to follow the voting instructions of promote and further the interests of our companies and their holders of depositary receipts.
The same applies to the voting shareholders.
The Boards however reserve the right, in cases instructions of holders of depositary receipts not attending a where they decide such to be in the interests of the companies shareholders meeting and who issue voting instructions to the or our shareholders, to depart from that which is set out in the Foundation via the Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel.
present and previous sections in relation to our corporate governance.
Any such changes will be reported in future Annual Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes to Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies the relevant documents published on our website.
As appropriate, or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted on by proposals for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the interests of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting policy is laid Further information can be found on our website and in the down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the document entitled The Governance of Unilever.
the terms of reference of our Board Committees, including their full responsibilities.
It will be kept up to date with changes in our Specic provisions apply in the event that a meeting of the holders internal constitutional arrangements that our Boards may make of NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
from time to time and it is available on our website at www.
com Investorrelations corp governance If a change to shareholders rights is proposed, the Foundation will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days in Requirements European Union advance of the meeting if possible.
Following implementation of the European Takeover Directive, certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to control Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at NV and share structures and interests of NV and PLC.
Such disclosures, meetings have been cast by the Foundation.
Unilever and the which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, include Foundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders of the following: depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in NV meetings.
there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV or PLC, Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a transfer of appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given such securities: the size of the voting rights attached to the nancing preference shares and the relatively low attendance of holders of ordinary there are no arrangements by which, with NV or PLC's shares at the General Meetings of NV.
cooperation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of such securities: Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59 Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance continued NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders members of a supervisory board to our Non-Executive Directors.
of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of Management tasks not capable of delegation are performed by such securities or on voting rights: the Board as a whole.
neither NV nor PLC are parties to any significant agreements Risk management and control which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate such Our principal risks are described on pages 30 to 34.
Our approach agreement upon a change of control following a takeover bid: to risk management and systems of internal control are described on page 35.
NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or As a result of the review of the Audit Committee as described employment resulting from a takeover except that most of in their report on page 63 the Board believes that as regards Unilever's share schemes contain provisions which operate in financial reporting risks the risk management and control systems the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements do instance cause options or awards granted to employees under not contain any errors of material importance and the risk such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into new management and control systems have worked properly in awards for shares in another entity: and 2009 bpp ll.
1.5. the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with abstain in any way they think t and in doing so may take the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley into account both financial and non-financial interests of the Act of 2002. beneciaries of the employee share trusts or their dependants.
Retention period of shares Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to Executive Directors must be retained for a period of at least five years Requirements the Netherlands bpp II.
Our shareholder-approved remuneration policy NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether requires Executive Directors to build and retain a personal it complies or will comply with the Principles and best practice shareholding in Unilever.
The Board believes that this is in line with provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the the spirit of the Dutch Code.
Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the reasons for this.
As will be clear from the description of our governance Severance pay arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the principles and It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors best practice provisions of the Dutch Code, a copy of which is at no more than one years salary, unless the Board, at the available at www.
nl The text that proposal of the Remuneration Committee, nds this manifestly follows sets out certain statements that the Dutch Code invites unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by us to make to our shareholders that are not included elsewhere applicable law bpp II.
2.8. in this Annual Report and Accounts as well as areas of noncompliance.
Conicts of interest In the event of a potential conict of interest, the provisions of the On 10 December 2008 the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Dutch Code Principles II.
Conicts of Compliance Committee published a revised version of the Code, interest are not understood to include transactions and other which is applicable to our annual reporting over 2009 and we activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
therefore report compliance under the revised Code in our Annual Report and Accounts 2009. Financing preference shares NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares between Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate 1927 and 1970.
Their voting rights are based on their nominal responsibility and sustainability as is evidenced by our vision value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code recommends to double the size of the company while reducing our that the voting rights on such shares should, in any event when environmental impact.
With respect to our performance measures they are newly issued, be based on their economic value rather Unilever is keen to ensure focus on key financial performance than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV agrees with this measures which we believe to be the drivers of shareholder value principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its creation and relative total shareholder return.
Unilever therefore outstanding preference shares.
believes that the interests of the business and shareholders are best served by linking the long-term share plans to the measures Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company as described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 67 NV confirms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the and has not included a non-financial performance indicator sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, to Principle II.
2.3. block future hostile public offers for its shares bpp IV.
Nor does NV have any constructions whose specic purpose is to Board and Committee structures prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from NV has a one-tier board, consisting of both Executive and, in a appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently majority, Non-Executive Directors.
We achieve compliance of our altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through a board arrangements with the Dutch Code, which is for the most public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not part based on the customary two-tier structure in the Netherlands, under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right by, as far as is possible and practicable, applying the provisions of of the Board of the company to exercise its powers.
the Dutch Code relating to members of a management board to our Executive Directors and by applying the provisions relating to 60 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Provision of information In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory the main principles and the provisions in the Combined Code.
In regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision 2009, PLC complied with the Combined Code except in the of information and communication with shareholders and other following areas: parties Principles IV.
Between February 2008 and the 2009 AGMs in May the Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors Remuneration Committees membership consisted of two We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the Subsequent to the appointments of Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh media also see page 55.
The important presentations and to that Committee, following their Board appointments at the meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance with 2009 AGMs, the Committee has complied with the membership the Dutch Code bpp IV.
Due to their large number and principle of the Code applicable to a remuneration committee.
overlap in information, however, some of the less important ones are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone or put Due to the requirement for Unilever to hold two AGMs for its on our website.
respective companies on consecutive days, it may not always be possible for all Directors, and possibly the Chairmen of the Corporate Governance Statement Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to be NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate present at both meetings.
The Chairman ensures that a majority governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on additional of Directors attend both meetings and that at least one member requirements for annual reports Vaststellingsbesluit nadere of each Committee attends each AGM.
voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag with effect from 1 January 2010 the Decree.
The information required to be included in this Risk management and control corporate governance statement as described in articles 3, 3a and Our principal risks are described on pages 30 to 34.
Our approach 3b of the Decree can be found in the following sections of this to risk management and systems of internal control are described document: on page 35. the information concerning compliance with the Dutch This approach to risk management and systems of internal control Corporate Governance Code, as required by article 3 of the is in line with the recommendations in the report on Internal Decree, can be found under Corporate Governance within the Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Combined section Requirements the Netherlands in this document: Code The Turnbull Guidance.
the information concerning Unilevers risk management and control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, The effectiveness of the system of internal control, including as required by article 3a a of the Decree, can be found under processes in relation to financial reporting and preparation of Outlook and risks on pages 30 to 36 and within the relevant consolidated accounts, has been reviewed by the Audit sections under Corporate Governance in this document: Committee.
the information regarding the functioning of Unilevers General Meeting of shareholders, and the authority and rights of The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk Unilevers shareholders, as required by article 3a b of the management and control, and its processes, outcomes and Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under disclosure, including specically: Corporate Governance in this document: the information regarding the composition and functioning of review of level of disclosure in quarterly financial results Unilevers Boards and its Committees, as required by article 3a c announcements: of the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under review of accounting principles and judgements with respect to Corporate Governance in this document: and financial statements, including the annual impairment review of the information concerning the inclusion of the information goodwill and intangibles: required by the decree Article 10 European Takeover Directive, review of the analysis supporting the going concern judgement as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found within the of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts: relevant sections under Corporate Governance and within the review of Unilevers Risk Management framework undertaken by management, agreeing to a streamlined process for section Shareholder information, Analysis of shareholding in assessment of corporate and operational risks: this document.
annual report on the Chief Executive Ofcers Top Corporate Risks and a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards: Requirements the United Kingdom annual Positive Assurance report from the Chief Executive PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK and officer on compliance with corporate policies and operating listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has applied controls: the main principles and how far it has complied with the review the application of the requirements under Section 404 of provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 UK Combined Code on the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal Corporate Governance the Combined Code, a copy of which is controls over financial reporting: and available at www.
uk annual review of anti-fraud arrangements.
It is Unilevers practice to bring acquired companies within the Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and in any event by the end of the first full year of operation.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61 Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance continued Requirements the United States We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards of Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange to have an Audit Committee that must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations Standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
We are enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the compliant with these requirements.
We are also required to New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance issuers.
In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in practices differ from those typically followed by US companies other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
In addition to the information we have given to you in this document about our corporate governance We have complied in all material respects with the requirements arrangements, further details are provided in the document concerning corporate governance that were in force during 2009. entitled The Governance of Unilever, which is on our website at Attention is drawn in particular to the remit of the Audit www.
com investorrelations corp governance Committee on page 53 and the Report of the Audit Committee on page 63.
We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange applicable to foreign private issuers.
Our corporate governance practices do not signicantly differ from those Actions already taken to ensure compliance in all material respects required of US companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
that are not specically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading this document include: We also confirm that our shareholders have the opportunity to vote on certain equity compensation plans.
the issuance of a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers: the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of Risk management and control former employees of the audit rm: and Our principal risks are described on pages 30 to 34.
Our approach the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under to risk management and systems of internal control are described SEC rules relating to standards of professional conduct for on page 35.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive officer In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and or and the Chief Financial officer concluded that the design and documented in such a way as to conform to the new operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, requirements.
including those dened in United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 - Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December 2009 were effective, The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, financial and and that subsequently until the date of the approval of the Annual accounting ofcers and comprises the standards prescribed by the Report by the Board, there have been no significant changes in the SEC, and a copy has been posted on our website at Groups internal controls, or in other factors that could www.
com investorrelations corp governance The Code of signicantly affect those controls.
Ethics comprises an extract of the relevant provisions of Unilevers Code of Business Principles and the more detailed rules of conduct Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act that implement it.
The only amendment to these pre-existing of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control over provisions and rules that was made in preparing the Code financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported on separately of Ethics was made at the request of the Audit Committee and and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on Form 20-F. consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to keep proper accounting records.
No waiver from any provision of the Code of Ethics was granted to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC requirements in 2009.
62 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
