Report of the Audit Committee The role and terms of reference of the Audit Committee is to assist External auditors the Unilever Boards in fullling their oversight responsibilities The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the regarding the integrity of Unilevers financial statements, risk effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee has management and internal control, compliance with legal and considered the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors and regulatory requirements, the external auditors performance, determined that a tender for the audit work is not necessary.
qualications and independence, and the performance of the As a result, the Committee has approved the extension of the internal audit function.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, current external audit contract by one year, and recommended principal activities were as follows: to the Boards the reappointment of external auditors.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be proposing the re-appointment of  at the Financial statements AGMs in May 2010 see pages 137 and 143.
The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements, including other financial statements and disclosures prior to their publication and Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee.
They also reviewed and independence could be compromised.
The Committee the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on Form 20-F reviewed the report from  on the actions prior to publication.
they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their Audit of the Annual Accounts independence from Unilever.
, Unilevers external auditors, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit, audit, including their audit of internal control over financial tax and other services provided by , reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and compliance with Unilevers documented approach, which of 2002.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance prescribes in detail the types of engagements for which the and control, and accounting developments.
external auditors can and cannot be used: The Committee held independent meetings with the external statutory audit services including audit of subsidiaries: auditors during the year.
other audit services work which regulations or agreements with third parties require the auditors to undertake: Risk management and internal control arrangements other services statutory auditors may carry out work that they The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk are best placed to undertake, including internal control reviews: management and control, and its processes, outcomes and acquisition and disposal services where the auditors are best disclosure, including specically: placed to do this work: tax services all significant tax consulting work is put to tender, review of level of disclosure in quarterly financial results except where the auditors are best placed to do this: and announcements: general consulting external auditors may not tender for review of accounting principles and judgements with respect general consulting work.
to financial statements, including the annual impairment review of goodwill and intangibles: All engagements over 100,000 require specic advance approval review of regular updates on outstanding litigation and of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The overall policy is regularly regulatory investigations from the Chief Legal officer: reviewed and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal review of the analysis supporting the going concern judgement developments, external developments and best practice.
of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts: review of Unilevers Risk Management framework undertaken by Internal audit function management, agreeing to a streamlined process for assessment The Committee reviewed the Corporate Audit departments of corporate and operational risks: audit plan for the year, and agreed its budget and resource annual report on the Chief Executive Ofcers Top Corporate requirements.
The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of Risks and a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards: the performance of the internal audit function and confirmed that annual Positive Assurance report from the Chief Executive they were satisfied with the effectiveness of the function.
The officer on compliance with corporate policies and operating Committee held independent meetings with the Chief Auditor controls: during the year.
Corporate Audits interim and year-end summary reports, and managements response: Audit Committee terms of reference the interim and year-end reports from the Code of Business The Audit Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually Principles Compliance Committee including the resolution of by the Committee taking into account relevant legislation and complaints received through the global Ethics hotline including recommended good practice.
The terms of reference can be procedures for handling complaints and concerns relating to viewed on Unilevers website or supplied on request.
accounting, internal control and auditing matters: review the application of the requirements under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal Board Assessment of the Audit Committee The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the controls over financial reporting: Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance.
review of the application of information and communication technology: review of the annual pension report and the impact of financial Kees Storm Chairman of the Audit Committee volatility on pensions: Wim Dik annual review of anti-fraud arrangements: review of tax planning policy: Charles Golden review of treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: Byron Grote review of the annual financial plan: and review of the revised dividend policy and dividend proposals.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63
