Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to practising good Non-executive Directors NEDs are It was essential for an emerging corporate governance as part of its aim to encouraged to meet without the presence pharmaceutical company like Vectura to deliver shareholder value.
In assessing the of Executive Directors as appropriate.
secure the recruitment and retention of appropriate standards of corporate NEDs with the appropriate experience and governance the Board takes into account international perspective in the context of Division of responsibilities the nature and size of the operation, which the Groups then stage of development.
between Chairman and comprised at 31 March 2009 six Directors There are no performance criteria attaching Chief Executive and nearly 250 staff operating from three to these options, and these options are sites in the UK.
The Board recognises that it now exercisable.
No options have been The Board has shown its commitment to is accountable to shareholders for the granted to NEDs since Vectura Group plc dividing responsibilities for running the Groups standard of governance and is was listed, and there is no intention to Board and for running the Groups reporting here on its compliance with the award any further options to NEDs.
business by appointing Jack Cashman as Combined Code on Corporate Governance Non-Executive Chairman: by naming Dr The Board has determined that all NEDs published in July 2003 and revised in June John Brown as Senior Independent are independent.
The holding of share 2006 the Code.
Director: by establishing an executive options by NEDs could be, amongst other management team Vectura Executive things, relevant in determining whether Statement of compliance Committee, the VEC under the a NED is independent.
After detailed with the Combined Code leadership of Chief Executive Dr Chris consideration, the Board has determined Blackwell: and by establishing a procedure that it does not believe that the holding of The Group has, in the Directors opinion, whereby the VEC reports formally to the share options by its NEDs impacts on their complied with the provisions set out in Board at each Board meeting.
independence in character and judgement.
Section 1 of the Code throughout the year Options granted to NEDs are now Board balance ended 31 March 2009. exercisable and thus are similar to holding The Code requires a balance of Executive the equivalent amount of shares.
The principles set out in the Code cover Directors and NEDs and in particular four areas: the Board, Directors independent NEDs such that no individual Other factors that may reflect on the remuneration, accountability and audit and or small group of individuals can dominate independence of a NED include any material shareholder relations.
With the exception the Boards decision-taking.
A smaller business relationships with the Group.
of Directors remuneration which is dealt company, such as Vectura, must have at with separately in the Report on least two independent NEDs.
Four of the Dr Foden provides specific advice to the remuneration, the following sets out how six current Board members are NEDs.
Group on intellectual property within her the Board has applied such principles.
The NEDs come from diverse business area of expertise.
During the year ended backgrounds and each has specific 31 March 2009, 7,000 was paid to The Board expertise, materially enhancing the Dr Foden 2008: 4,000 in respect of these judgement and overall performance of services.
The Board considers that this The Code requires every company to be the Board.
Dr Brown is the Non-Executive assists the Board in providing further headed by an effective board, which is Director with relevant financial experience.
understanding of certain key scientific collectively responsible for its success.
As aspects of the business and, as the part of its leadership and control of the Independence of NEDs amount involved is not material, does Group, the Board has an agreed list of As explained in previous annual reports, in not in any way affect Dr Fodens items that are specifically reserved for its order to assist in securing the recruitment independent judgement.
These include business and retention of high-calibre NEDs, the strategy, financing arrangements, material Group has historically, in addition to fees, Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009 acquisitions and divestments, approval of remunerated NEDs in the form of options and up to the date of publication of this the annual budget, major capital to acquire shares in Vectura.
report, more than half the Board, excluding expenditure projects, risk management, the Chairman, comprised NEDs determined Whilst the Code discourages the granting treasury policies and establishing and by the Board to be independent.
of share options to NEDs, it nevertheless monitoring internal controls.
At each acknowledges that such grants may be meeting, the Board reviews strategy and appropriate in a particular companys progress of the Group towards its circumstances.
The Board is of the view objectives, particularly in respect of that the historic granting of share options research and development projects, and to NEDs when Vectura Group plc was a monitors financial progress against budget.
private company was appropriate and no share options have been granted to NEDs since 2 July 2004.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 22 The Board has established a Remuneration The Nomination Committee The Code requires that this Annual Report Committee, a Nomination Committee and The Nomination Committee leads the separately describes the work of the Audit an Audit Committee, whose make-up process for Board appointments and Committee and how it discharges its complies with the requirements of the makes recommendations to the Board.
The terms of reference of each The Code recommends that a majority of focuses particularly on compliance with Committee can be downloaded from the members of the Nomination Committee legal requirements, accounting standards Groups website.
In accordance with the are independent NEDs.
Dr Brown chairs and the Code, and on ensuring that an Smith Guidance on Board Committees, no the Nomination Committee and its other effective system of internal financial one other than the Committee Chairman members are Mr Cashman, Dr Foden and controls is maintained.
The ultimate and committee members receive Dr Richards.
The Nomination Committee responsibility for reviewing and approving automatic invitations to the meetings.
meets at least once a year, or more if the financial statements in the Interim and All of the NEDs serve on the three board necessary, and has responsibility for Annual Reports remains with the Board.
The considering the size, structure and Written terms of reference are modelled on Board has considered the composition of composition of the Board, retirements the Code provisions and set out the main the committees and concluded that the and appointments of additional and roles and responsibilities of the Audit independence and objectivity of the replacement Directors and making Committee.
The Audit Committee reports individual NEDs is in no way impaired by appropriate recommendations to the to the Board, identifying any need for sitting on these committees.
The Committee met once during the action or improvement on any of these financial year ended 31 March 2009 and terms of reference and making The Remuneration Committee the Board confirms full attendance by all recommendations as to the steps to be The Code requires that the Remuneration members at that meeting.
The Board reviews the effectiveness Committee consists of at least two of the Audit Committee annually.
Dr Foden chairs the The Audit Committee Remuneration Committee, its other The Code recommends that the Board The Audit Committee meets with the members being Dr Brown, Mr Cashman should establish an Audit Committee of at external Auditors at least twice a year and Dr Richards.
The Committee has least three independent NEDs, one of without management present and its responsibility for making recommendations whom has recent and relevant financial Chairman keeps in touch, as required, with to the Board on the Groups policy on the experience.
The Group complies with these the key people involved in the Groups performance evaluation and remuneration recommendations.
Dr Brown is Chairman governance, including the Board Chairman, of Directors and for determining, within of the Committee, the other members the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial agreed terms of reference, specific being Dr Foden and Dr Richards.
Officer and the external audit lead partner.
remuneration packages for each of the All Audit Committee members understand The Audit Committee met three times Directors and members of the VEC, the role of the Audit Committee, its terms during the year ended 31 March 2009. including pension rights, any compensation of reference and their expected time The Board confirms full attendance by payments and the implementation of commitments, and have the necessary all members during the year.
The Audit executive incentive schemes.
The overview of the Groups business, financial Committee is responsible for making Committee met formally three times during dynamics and risk.
recommendations to the Board on the the financial year ended 31 March 2009 appointment, reappointment and removal The Audit Committee reviews and the Board confirms full attendance by of the external auditors and assesses arrangements by which staff of the Group all members during the year.
annually the qualification, expertise, may, in confidence, raise concerns about resources, remuneration and possible improprieties in matters of independence of the auditors, as well as financial reporting or other matters.
The the effectiveness of the audit process.
Audit Committees objective is to ensure that arrangements are in place for the Any non-audit services that are to be proportionate and independent provided by the external auditors are investigation of such matters and for reviewed in order to safeguard auditor appropriate follow-up action.
The Board confirms that there have been no nonThe Audit Committee reviews the financial audit services that are considered to have integrity of the Groups financial statements, impaired the objectivity and independence including relevant corporate governance of the external auditors.
statements prior to Board submission.
The Group has a formal whistle blowing policy, which is available to all staff via the Groups intranet.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 23 Corporate governance statement continued Timeliness and quality of Board performance Maintenance of a sound Board information evaluation system of internal control The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are subject to election by The Board has overall responsibility for the Directors are properly briefed to help them shareholders at the first opportunity after Groups system of internal control and for make an effective contribution at the their appointment, and to re-election reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups meetings by establishing procedures for thereafter at intervals of no more than internal controls are regularly reviewed as distributing Board agendas and papers in a three years.
The Board has a process for part of the risk management process.
Such timely manner in advance of meetings.
The evaluation of its own performance and a system is designed to manage rather than Board has at least six scheduled formal that of its committees and individual eliminate the risk of failure to achieve meetings per year, with additional Directors, including the Chairman.
These business objectives and can provide only meetings when circumstances and urgent evaluations are once a year formally and reasonable and not absolute assurance business dictate.
In the financial year are carried out on a regular basis against material misstatement or loss.
The under review, seven regular meetings of informally throughout the year.
The formal concept of reasonable assurance recognises the full Board were held.
The Board evaluation is through an appraisal process.
that the cost of a control procedure should confirms full attendance by all Directors The Company Secretary reports the results not exceed the expected benefits.
of the reviews back to the Board with The Groups organisational structure has identified areas for future action.
The In addition, the Executive Directors ensure clearly established responsibilities and lines performance of Dr Blackwell and Dr regular informal contact is maintained of accountability.
Employees are required to Richards, who are being proposed for rewith Non-Executive Directors.
The Board follow clearly defined internal procedures election at the Annual General Meeting makes full use of appropriate technology and policies appropriate to the business and AGM, have been so evaluated and it has as a means of updating and informing all their position within the business.
been determined that they continue to its members.
perform effectively and show full The Group endeavours to appoint commitment to their roles on the Board.
employees with appropriate skills, Transparency of Board All Directors have service agreements with knowledge and experience for the roles indefinite terms, with 12 months notice appointments they undertake.
for Executive Directors and three months There are formal, rigorous and transparent notice for Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has shown its commitment procedures for the appointment of new to formal and transparent arrangements Directors to the Board.
Shortlisted for internal control by, amongst other Accountability and audit candidates are interviewed by the things, reviewing the Groups Chairman of the Board and at least one The Board is required by the Code to present arrangements for its employees to raise other member of the Nomination a balanced and understandable assessment concerns, in confidence, about possible Committee, and evaluations of all of the Groups position and prospects.
In wrongdoing formalised in grievance appropriate candidates are circulated to all relation to this requirement reference is procedure and whistle blowing policies members of the Nomination Committee for made to the Statement of Directors circulated to all employees.
consideration and approval prior to responsibilities for preparing financial candidate recommendation to the Board.
The independent auditors report includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 24 Documented quality procedures are in Shareholder relations Constructive use of the AGM place to ensure the maintenance of The Group reports formally to shareholders The Board seeks to use the AGM together regulatory compliance.
These are subject twice a year by way of the Interim and with other forums to communicate with to periodic review to ensure current Annual Reports, and also issues two investors and encourage their participation standards of quality compliance are interim management statements, by arranging business presentations and maintained.
A quality group monitors providing a quarterly communication inviting shareholder questions.
The Chairs compliance with Good Laboratory Practice, with shareholders.
All periodic reports of the Remuneration, Nomination and Good Clinical Practice and Good and accounts are made available to Audit Committees are present at the AGM Manufacturing Practice through the shareholders on the Groups website, to answer questions through the Chairman implementation of a compliance or are mailed to shareholders who have of the Board.
programme for in-house and contractedelected to receive hard copies.
The Group has set up a shareholders who are Vectura registered formal Health and Safety Committee, website users receive all these press comprising appropriate members of releases by e-mail.
Separate management and other employees, to be announcements of all material events are responsible for these issues.
The Group Anne Hyland made as necessary by press releases that has formal procedures to ensure Company Secretary are posted on the Groups website and appropriate security of documents and 18 May 2009 automatically sent to all shareholders who proprietary information.
are Vectura registered website users.
The Group regularly reviews its portfolio of These are the main mechanisms by which insurance policies with its insurance broker the Board seeks to present a balanced and to ensure that the policies are appropriate understandable assessment of the Groups to the Groups activities, size and exposures.
The Vectura website provides additional information A comprehensive budgeting system allows about the Group and allows access to managers to submit detailed budgets, reports and accounts, press releases and which are reviewed and amended by other materials issued by the Group.
Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
At the end of each Regular communications are maintained quarter a forecast is prepared in the same with major institutional shareholders and, in level of detail as the budget.
Actual results particular, presentations are made when against budget and forecast, highlighting half-year and full-year financial results are variances, are prepared for managers and announced.
Dr Brown, as Senior the Board.
Independent Director, is contactable by shareholders through a link on the Groups Risk assessment review website.
In addition, all NEDs have developed an understanding of the views of An ongoing process for identifying, shareholders through corporate broker evaluating and managing the significant briefings and review of issued analyst notes.
risks which are detailed in the risk factors section of this report is in place.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system has been reviewed by the Board during the year.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include the review of the Groups internal financial control systems and it recommends to the Board any improvements required.
The Audit Committee considers the need for an internal audit function annually and has concluded that, given the size of the Groups operations at this time, it is not necessary.
The Board also carries out reviews of the non-financial control systems.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 25
