Corporate Governance 38 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board The Directors of Vedanta Resources plc continue to be Role and Responsibilities of the Board committed to the highest standards of corporate governance The role of the Board is to provide leadership to the Group in a practices in its management of the affairs of the Group and manner which maximises opportunities to develop its accountability to shareholders.
The Board believes that sound portfolio of businesses pro tably whilst assessing and corporate governance is essential to achieving the Companys managing the associated risks.
The Board assesses the strategy to create a world class metals and mining Group and strategic objectives of each business, monitors performance, generate strong financial returns.
The Directors are especially ensures the availability of financial, management and other aware of the need for a strong corporate governance resources required to meet the objectives, sets Group framework in the current climate and the need not only to standards of conduct and ensures that effective controls are in re ect the changing nature of the Groups businesses but the place to manage risk and that the interests of investors, environment in which it operates.
minority shareholders and other stakeholders are protected.
The objective of this report is to provide details of the Groups The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its governance policies, processes and structures and its consideration to ensure that the Board is in a position to deliver compliance with the principles of the Combined Code on its strategic objectives, monitor performance and maintain Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting effective controls whilst delegating operational management Council in June 2006 the Code.
The Code covers 17 main to the Executive Committee and the businesses.
Such matters principles in four subject areas: Directors, Directors reserved to the Board include, but are not limited to, approving Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, and Relations with Group strategy and annual budgets, major capital Shareholders.
This report explains how these principles were expenditure, major acquisitions and disposals.
applied, with the exception of those relating to Directors remuneration which are contained in the Remuneration There are five Board committees: Executive, Remuneration, Report on pages 46 to 52.
Audit, Nominations, and Health, Safety and Environment.
Each has its own clearly fide ned terms of reference and reports Statement of Compliance with Code Provisions directly to the Board.
Additional information on the With the exception of the following matters, the Company has committees is given later in this report.
throughout the year to 31 March 2009, fully complied with the principles set out in Section 1 of the UK Financial Reporting Board Balance and Independence Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted The Board comprises the following members: in June 2006: Mr AK Agarwal Executive Chairman Mr N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman Code Provisions A.
3.1 Mr MS Mehta Chief Executive As the founder of Vedanta, Mr Anil Agarwal was instrumental Mr N Chandra Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director in overseeing the phenomenal growth of the Group since its Mr A Mehta Non-executive Director inception in 1976 including the otation of Vedanta Resources Mr ER Macdonald Non-executive Director plc on the London Stock Exchange and its development into a FTSE 100 company.
Mr Agarwal was appointed as Executive The Board, chaired by Mr Anil Agarwal, currently has six Chairman in March 2005.
This meant that Mr Agarwal did not Directors comprising the Executive Chairman, two Executive meet the strict independence criteria on appointment because Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors.
he was previously the Chief Executive of the Company and, The Non-executive Directors possess a range of experience through Volcan Investments Ltd Volcan, he and his family and are of suf ciently high calibre to bring to bear independent have a controlling interest in the Company.
judgement on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are vital to the success of the Group.
His record since his appointment in seeking out new opportunities into value-creating projects whilst heading up a As announced during the year, Kuldip Kaura resigned as Chief dynamic Board has shown his continuing commitment to Executive Of cer on 30 September 2008 and was succeeded developing the Group for the bene t of its shareholders.
Mr Mehtas appointment was approved by this reason the Board is unanimously of the opinion that his the Board in March 2008 following the recommendation of the continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally Nominations Committee.
Prior to his appointment Mr Mehta important to the success of the Group.
was the Chief Executive of Hindustan Zinc Limited where he made a signi cant contribution to the companys growth.
4.1 Mehta will stand for election at the 2009 Annual General Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement and as disclosed at Meeting.
the time of Listing, Volcan will be consulted on all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee Dr Tamotia, a Non-executive Director was convicted by a lower therefore works collaboratively with Volcan over making court in India for having disproportionate assets during his appointments to the Board and, to this extent, differs from tenure as Chairman of the National Aluminium Company the process set out in Code Provision A.
This judgement is not final and he is appealing this in that the Nominations Committee should lead the process for the High Court, in the meantime he has tendered his Board appointments.
resignation and the Board on 6 March 2009 accepted the same.
Brief biographies of all of the current Directors are set out on page 36.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 39 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 The Board considers that all of the Non-executive Directors are Con icts of Interest independent of the Group as fide ned by Code Provision A.
The Board has established a process for disclosure of interests In making its assessment, the Board has considered the fact and other related matters in line with published guidance and that Mr Aman Mehta and Mr Euan Macdonald have held the Companies Act 2006.
Each Director has disclosed any previous senior management positions within subsidiary actual or potential con icts to the Board.
Any changes are companies of HSBC Holdings plc which acted as the joint disclosed and noted at each Board meeting.
The Board global co-ordinator and book runner when the Company listed authorises potential or actual con icts and has authorised the in 2003.
At the time of their appointments, the Board Audit Committee to deal with the Relationship Agreement considered that neither Mr Mehtas nor Mr Macdonalds issues and related party transactions on behalf of the Board.
previous employments included the provision of corporate finance services in London by the HSBC Group and thus they Chairman and Chief Executive had no involvement with the Group prior to their There is a clear division of the responsibilities between the appointment and that the value of the business transacted running of the Board and executive responsibility for running between the Company and the HSBC Group was less than 1% the business, so that no one person has unfettered powers of of the turnover of either organisation.
The Board has an established policy which remains of the view that these circumstances will not affect sets out the key responsibilities of the Executive Chairman and the judgement exercised by either Mr Mehta or Mr MacDonald Chief Executive.
A clear separation is maintained between the and therefore considers them to be independent.
responsibility of the Chairman and the Chief Executive, as detailed below: Mr Naresh Chandra is the Senior Independent Director SID.
His primary responsibilities are to lead discussions at meetings Chairman of the Non-executive Directors, provide an effective channel of Setting a vision for Vedanta, formulating its strategy, communication between the Chairman and Non-executive creating pro table business opportunities and reviewing Directors, ensure that the views of the Non-executive merger and acquisition opportunities.
Directors are given due consideration and provide a point of Providing leadership to the Board and ensuring its contact for any shareholder who wishes to raise concerns effectiveness.
which the normal channels of communication through the Ensuring that there is effective communication with Chairman and Chief Executive have failed to resolve, or for shareholders.
Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors.
During the year, the Chairman held regular meetings with Overseeing corporate governance arrangements in Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors compliance with the Code.
Chief Executive Relationship Agreement Developing and managing the executive team in the At the time of Listing, the Company and Volcan, the majority operations.
shareholder, entered into a relationship agreement the Delivery of operating budgets.
Relationship Agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship Supporting the Executive Chairman in the delivery and between them.
The principal purpose of the Relationship implementation of strategy.
Agreement is to ensure that the Group is able to carry on Optimising the Groups assets and management and business independently of Volcan, the Agarwal family and their allocation of resources.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Supporting the Executive Chairman in effective the Board and Nominations Committee will at all times consist communication with various stakeholders.
of a majority of Directors who are independent of Volcan and Creating and maintaining a sound control environment.
the Agarwal family, whilst the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times comprise only Non-executive The Chairmans other current responsibilities are set out in the Directors.
Volcan is entitled to nominate for appointment as biographies on page 36.
There have been no changes to those Director such number of persons as is one less than the commitments during the year.
number of Directors who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal family and their associates.
The Board considers these Directors Dealings in Shares to be adequate safeguards in that Directors who are The Company has a policy based on the Model Code published independent of Volcan make up a majority of the Board and in the Listing Rules, which covers dealings in securities and Vedantas ability to operate independently of Volcan is applies to Directors and senior management.
A protected by the Relationship Agreement.
In addition, in comprehensive insider list is maintained and all participants accordance with Provisions A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, at are noti ed of close periods.
least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprise Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to Induction and Continuing Professional Development be independent.
Appropriate induction is provided to all Directors on appointment to the Board and programmes of continuing professional development are arranged as required, taking into consideration the individual quali cations and experience of the Directors.
Corporate Governance 40 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued During the year the Directors received brie ngs on new legislation in respect of con icts of interest and directors duties.
The Directors also attend other update brie ngs in order to familiarise themselves with new regulatory requirements as appropriate.
Directors undertake visits to operations and have discussions with local management on an ongoing basis.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
All Directors have access to the Companys professional advisers whom they can consult where they nd it necessary in order to better discharge their responsibilities.
No Director took such professional advice during the year Performance Evaluation During the year, the performance of the Board, its main committees and the individual Directors were formally and rigorously evaluated under the leadership and direction of the Chairman.
A questionnaire was circulated to Directors concerning their individual performance and that of the Board as a whole and its main committees.
Responses were collated and summarised, open and frank Board discussions held concerning the results and issues raised were addressed.
The evaluation process concluded that the Board as a whole provided strong leadership within a sound framework of controls.
The main committees had functioned effectively during the year and individuals had also performed well, with each member making a signi cant contribution to the Company.
The mix of skills and experience on the Board was felt to be appropriate.
The main area of weakness identi ed was the need to give greater time to discussing strategic and environmental issues.
This has been noted and actions put in place as a result.
As in previous years, the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, considered as part of the evaluation process the performance of the Chairman and provided him with feedback.
Re-election In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Non-executive Directors are only put forward for re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Board Meetings and Attendance The Board met nine times during the year and maintained close dialogue between meetings.
Board committees are appointed to deal with the execution of speci c matters requiring Board approval.
The Board is updated regularly by these committees on the development of these speci c matters.
The terms of reference of Board committees are reviewed from time to time in order to enhance the decision-making process.
Each member of the Board receives information comparing the performance of each business and of the Group with the annual budget each quarter and is given suf cient brie ng materials with the agenda in advance of each Board meeting to enable informed decisions to be made.
A procedure has been put in place to ensure that the Board considers all of the relevant factors when reaching its decisions.
The Executive Committee reviews papers before submission to the Board to ensure they take into account, as appropriate, the factors set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors duty to promote the success of the Company for the bene t of members.
In addition to these formal processes, Directors are in regular communication with the senior executives.
The Chief Financial Of cer, Mr D D Jalan, attends all Board meetings to represent the finance function and act as a conduit between the Board and the Executive Committee.
Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings during the year.
Health, Safety and Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Environment Committee | | | | Director A 1 B 2 A B A B A B A B AK Agarwal 9 9 2 2 N Agarwal 9 9 1 KK Kaura 4 4 1 1 2 MS Mehta 5 5 3 3 N Chandra 9 9 4 4 3 3 2 2 A Mehta 9 9 4 4 3 3 3 SK Tamotia 8 8 1 1 2 2 ER Macdonald 9 9 4 4 3 3 2 2 Notes: 1 Resigned from the Board on 30 September 2008.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008.
3 Resigned from the Board on 6 March 2009.
Key: 1 A Maximum number of meetings the directors could have attended.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 41 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Only members of a Board committee are entitled to attend the The Nominations Committee is responsible for succession relevant committee meetings, although other Directors may planning for the Board and making recommendations attend Board committees at the invitation of the relevant concerning candidates for appointment as Executive or committee chairman.
Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The selection process will generally involve benchmarking and interviews Board Committees with a selection of candidates.
In addition, the Committee All of the Board committees have access to suf cient resources makes recommendations concerning the structure, size and and external advice as appropriate.
Copies of the terms of composition of the Board.
The Nominations Committee also reference of the committees are available from the Company assesses the Directors to retire and stand for re-election at the Secretary on request.
AGM in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code that all directors be re-elected at intervals of no more Audit Committee than three years.
The members of the Audit Committee, all of whom are independent Non-executive Directors, are: During the year the Nominations Committee considered Mr N Chandra Mr Chandras re-appointment to the Board under his contract Mr ER Macdonald which is renewable every 12 months.
The Committee agreed Mr A Mehta chairman that a recommendation be made to the Board that Mr Chandra be re-appointed as a Non-executive Director and the Senior The Audit Committees main responsibilities are to monitor Independent Director as his performance continued to be the integrity of the financial statements, review the activities effective and he demonstrated commitment to the role.
In of the external and internal audit functions, and review internal addition, the Committee also considered the Directors to controls and risk management systems.
retire by rotation under the Companys Articles of Association and reviewed the composition, balance and skills of the Board.
The Board considers that the required relevant financial experience on the Committee is provided by Mr Mehta by Health, Safety and Environment Committee virtue of his previous full-time role at HSBC Bank and through HSE Committee his experience on the audit committees of other international The HSE Committee consists of two Board Directors and senior companies.
Mr Chandra, who chaired the Government of management as follows: Indias Committee on Corporate Governance, has a deep Mr Chandra chairman understanding of corporate governance issues in general and Mr MS Mehta of the Indian environment in particular.
During his career, Mr Mr R Nair Macdonald has held senior positions in banking and financial Mr CSR Mehta services companies.
Mr G Gupta Mr J Janakaraj Further details about the Audit Committee and its activities Mr A Joshi are outlined below.
Mr P Khanna Mr M Patil Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee, all of whom As a result of the departure of Dr Tamotia the Board considered are independent Non-executive Directors, are: the appointment of a new chairman for the HSE Committee Mr N Chandra chairman and Mr Chandra was appointed as Chairman in March 2009 Mr A Mehta with the unanimous support of the Board.
Changes were Mr ER Macdonald also made during the year to the composition of the HSE Committee to include members from operational The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the management to further enhance focus on health, safety remuneration policy and remuneration packages for the and environmental matters.
Further details about the role Executive Directors and for maintaining an awareness of the of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee can be overall remuneration of senior management within the Group.
found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 32 to 35 of this Annual Report and in the separate Sustainable The Remuneration Report, which is presented on pages 45, Development Report.
sets out the remuneration policy and other disclosures concerning the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors Nominations Committee and its Report and the senior management within the Group who head the The members of the Nominations Committee are: Groups principal businesses and corporate functions, meets Mr A Agarwal chairman on a monthly basis to consider the operating performance of Mr N Chandra each of the principal subsidiaries.
Mr Navin Agarwal chairs the Mr ER Macdonald Executive Committee.
Corporate Governance 42 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued The Boards role is to set the Companys values and standards, During the year, the Audit Committees activities included the: determine its strategic objectives, implement best practice review of the Companys draft preliminary announcement, across the Group and monitor operational performance.
The the annual report and interim statement: Executive Committee supports the Board in ful lling this role review of the Companys risk matrix and internal controls and is essentially responsible for the operational performance processes: of the Group including: review of the internal audit reports of the Company: Implementing and delivering the strategic plans approval of the internal audit plan for 200910, including formulated by the Board.
review of the Management Assurance Service function: Monitoring operational and financial performance.
evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Prioritising and allocating resources.
This was done using a detailed Developing and reviewing objectives and budgets with questionnaire, the results of which had been considered by subsidiary company boards to ensure that these fall within the Committee and which formed the basis of the agreed targets and parameters set by the Board.
Committees recommendation to the Board to Approval of capital expenditure.
recommend the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Review of the Human Resources Policy and Treasury Policy.
Companys auditors for the year ending 31 March 2010: review of the external auditors independence: During the year the Executive Committee also oversaw the review of the external auditors signi cant findings: division of the business into various operating sectors and consideration of key tax and legal issues: aligned management to these sectors to provide a more review of the Groups whistleblowing policy: effective focus of management and greater operational review of updates on the Groups SarbanesOxley ef ciencies.
compliance following Sterlites ADR listing: performance of the internal audit function.
Accountability and Audit Audit Committee Report Auditor Independence Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on to meet at least three times a year and organises its meetings the objectivity of the Groups auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, at the most appropriate times in the reporting and audit in their reporting to shareholders.
The audit partner and senior process.
The Audit Committees main responsibilities are to: manager are present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure make recommendations to the Board concerning the full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall appointment of the external auditor: performance of the auditor is reviewed annually by the Audit review the independence of the auditors: Committee, taking into account the views of management, develop policy in relation to the provision of non-audit and feedback is provided to senior members of Deloitte services by the auditor: unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of Deloittes discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee also has the audit: discussions with the auditor, without management being approve the remuneration of the auditor: present, on the adequacy of controls and on any judgemental monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory to date.
The its annual and interim results: scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance review the Groups internal controls and risk management by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit systems: Committee after discussions between the businesses and monitor the activities of the internal audit function and Deloitte and are then referred to the Board for approval.
consider their reports: review the Groups arrangement for its employees to raise Rotation of the audit partners responsibilities within Deloitte concerns through its whistleblowing policy: and is required by their professions ethical standards.
There is also review reports from the subsidiary audit committees.
rotation of key members within the audit team.
The Groups main subsidiaries, a number of which are listed on The Committee has a policy for the provision of non-audit stock exchanges in India, have their own audit committees in services by the auditors.
Under this policy, the Audit accordance with local corporate governance requirements.
By Committee has agreed a scope of services which the external monitoring their discussions and findings, the Audit auditors are permitted to deliver to the Group.
The policy also Committee gains further insights into the quality of financial speci es which services are prohibited in order to safeguard reporting and internal control.
Furthermore the internal audit the ongoing independence of the external auditors.
An function presents issues arising from the subsidiaries to the analysis of the non-audit fees can be found in note 9 to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 43 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Other than audit, the Chief Financial Of cer is required to give Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place prior approval of work carried out by Deloitte and its associates procedures to ensure that suf cient internal controls are in excess of a predetermined threshold.
Part of this review is to maintained.
These procedures include a monthly meeting of determine that other potential providers of the services have the relevant management committee and a quarterly meeting been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Audit of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
These committees Committee with con dence in the independence of Deloitte in are appointed by the Board of Directors of each relevant their reporting on the audit of the Group.
subsidiary and the minutes of their proceedings are reviewed by the Company Secretary.
Any adverse findings are reported Financial Reporting Systems to the Audit Committee.
The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, which is reviewed and modi ed as circumstances require.
The responsibilities of MAS include recommending Procedures include: improvements in the control environment and ensuring Preparing operational budgets for the forthcoming year for compliance with the Groups philosophy, policies and review and approval by the Board.
Ensuring budgets and forecasts are prepared using conservative and consistent assumptions.
The planning of internal audit is approached from a risk Monitoring performance against key performance perspective.
For internal audit purposes, the Group is divided indicators throughout the financial year and updating into three auditable groupings, namely: manufacturing forecasts with reference to information on key risk areas.
operating entities, projects and other entities.
In preparing an Preparation of monthly management reports both on a internal audit plan, reference is made to the Groups risk divisional and consolidated basis which are presented to matrix, inputs are sought from senior management and the Executive Committee for review.
project managers and Audit Committee members and Implementing and review of IT controls.
reference is made to past audit experience and financial analysis.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the Group maintains a robust system of internal control to provide risk of failing to achieve the Groups business objectives.
As them with reasonable assurance that all information used such, the process can only provide reasonable rather than within the business and for external publication is adequate.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an established process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group in Relations with Shareholders accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
This includes financial, Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders operational and compliance control and risk management, to The Board recognises that meetings with analysts and ensure that shareholders interests and the Companys shareholders constitute an important element of the resources are safeguarded.
In line with best practice, the Board Companys investor relations programme.
A number of has reviewed the internal control system in place during the meetings were held with the Companys principal institutional year and up to the date of the approval of this report.
This shareholders during the year as well as with financial analysts review ensures that the internal control system remains and brokers.
These meetings are initiated either by the effective.
Where weaknesses are identi ed as a result of the Company or analysts and investors and are managed at Group review, new procedures are put in place to strengthen controls level through Mr Sumanth Cidambi, Director Investor and these are in turn reviewed at regular intervals.
During the Relations, who also briefs the Board on the Companys course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board relationships with its shareholders.
The main channels of has not identi ed nor been advised of any failings or communication with the investment community are through weaknesses which it has determined to be signi cant.
the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer and Director of Investor Relations.
The Senior The Groups internal audit activity is managed through the Independent Director and Non-executive Directors are also Management Assurance Services MAS function and is an available as appropriate.
important element of the overall process by which the Board obtains the assurance it requires to ensure that risks are Senior management attend investor seminars which provide properly identi ed, evaluated and managed.
This process has opportunities for two-way communication with investors and been in place for the year under review and up to the date of analysts and feedback is provided to the Board.
It also provides assurance on the effectiveness of relevant internal controls.
The scope of work, The Company announces its annual and half-year results to authority and resources of MAS are regularly reviewed by the the London Stock Exchange and the press in advance of the Audit Committee and its work is supported by the services of publication of the annual and interim reports.
Summary leading international accountancy rms but speci cally not reports are also published for the first and third quarters.
including the Groups external auditors.
The Audit Committee Other price-sensitive information is announced as and when has, during the year, reviewed the level of internal audit appropriate and the Board has adopted a communications resources within the Group and believes that it is appropriate policy to ensure that this is done in a timely and considered to the Groups size.
Presentations are made to analysts and the press by the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer following the release of the interim and preliminary announcements.
Corporate Governance 44 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued The Annual Report is the primary means of communicating with shareholders.
All financial reports, including the half year report, press releases and other information about Vedanta are available on the website www.
Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with shareholders and welcomes their participation.
This years Annual General Meeting will be held on 27 July 2009 at 3pm, at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
The Notice of Meeting will be circulated at least 20 working days before the meeting.
An update will be provided on trading performance and shareholders will be given the opportunity to ask questions.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting on all resolutions is by poll on a one share, one vote basis and the results of votes cast for, against and abstentions are available on the Groups website following the meeting.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
