32 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Details are set out in the narrative below of the Companys corporate Hill and Wanecq will therefore be offering themselves for election governance procedures and application of the principles of the at this years AGM as set out in the Notice of AGM and on page 43.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Responsibilities and meetings Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and 31 December 2009. delegates certain matters to committees as outlined below.
The Board met on nine formal scheduled occasions during 2009 as well THE BOARD as holding a number of ad hoc committee meetings to consider nonUltimate responsibility for the management of Cookson rests with routine business.
In addition, the Chairman and the Non-executive the Board of Directors.
The Board focuses primarily upon strategic Directors meet routinely on their own without the executive Directors and policy issues.
It approves the Groups strategy, oversees the present and at least once each year the Non-executive Directors allocation of resources and monitors the performance of the Group meet without the Chairman present to discuss matters such as the in pursuit of this.
MEMBERSHIP Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing Group and The Board currently has nine Directors, comprising the Nondivisional performance: approving significant transactions including executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and changes to the the Chief Executive Officer of the Ceramics Division and five NonGroups capital structure: setting and approving the Groups strategy executive Directors.
The Board considers each of the Non-executive and annual budget: approving the Groups financing and treasury Directors, namely Jeff Hewitt, Peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry Perry policies: succession planning and approving Board appointments and John Sussens, to be independent of management and free from and the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
In addition, any business or other relationship which could affect the exercise of the Board considers health, safety and environmental matters and their independent judgement.
reviews the Groups risk management processes.
The Company has reviewed the availability of the Non-executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Directors and considers that each of them is able to, and in practice Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing.
does, devote the necessary amount of time to the Companys business.
The Chairman leads the Board and meets routinely with the Chief The Board nominates one of the Non-executive Directors to act as Executive and Group Secretary to discuss matters relating to its Senior Independent Director and provide an alternative contact at efficient functioning.
The Chairman also serves as Chairman of Board level, other than the Chairman, to whom shareholder matters Elementis plc and as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee can be addressed.
Mr Sussens continues to hold this position.
The Board considers that the Chairman is able to biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 30. and does devote sufficient time to his duties at Cookson.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that Directors The attendance of Directors who served during the year at Board should submit themselves for election at the Annual General and principal committee meetings during the year, together with the Meeting AGM next following their appointment and then should maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Messrs a Board member as shown in brackets, was as follows: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chairman Robert Beeston 9 9 n a n a 6 6 Executive Directors Mike Butterworth 9 9 n a n a n a Nick Salmon 9 9 n a n a 6 6 Non-executive Directors Jeff Hewitt 9 9 5 5 5 5 6 6 Jan Oosterveld 9 9 5 5 4 5 5 6 Barry Perry 9 9 5 5 5 5 6 6 John Sussens 9 9 5 5 5 5 6 6 cooksongroup.
co. uk Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant Board The Board agreed the action items to be addressed as a result of or committee meeting to enable them to make further enquiries the review.
These included a re-examination of Group strategy in the about any matters prior to the meeting should they so wish.
The light of emerging end-market trends as the global economy recovers.
Group Secretary oversees the distribution of these papers and The Chairmen of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration ensures that there is an appropriate level of communication between Committees also reviewed the results of the evaluation of each the Board and its committees and between senior management and committee with committee members.
All Board committees were the Non-executive Directors.
He also keeps the Board apprised of considered to be effective.
relevant developments in corporate governance.
Induction and training Performance evaluation The Group Secretary ensures that a comprehensive induction The Board evaluates its own performance and effectiveness and programme is provided to all new Directors, including visits to assesses the performance of its committees and individual Board manufacturing facilities, meetings with key Group executives and members on an annual basis.
The precise scope of the evaluation introductions to the Companys principal external advisers, as varies from year to year and is agreed in advance with the full Board.
New Directors are also advised of their legal and other The Chairman leads the evaluation process with the assistance of duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
This is the Group Secretary.
supplemented by reference materials, which are updated as required, The performance of the Chairman is included in the review and takes including information about the Board, the committees, Directors into account the views of both the executive and Non-executive duties, procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and other Directors.
The Chairmans evaluation is conducted by the Senior regulatory and governance matters.
Directors are provided with Independent Director who provides feedback to the Chairman.
As details of seminars and training courses relevant to their role.
They part of the Chairmans evaluation the Non-executive Directors meet are encouraged to attend these as they consider appropriate and separately with the Senior Independent Director.
are supported by the Company in so doing.
Where a general training need is identified, in-house training is provided to the entire Board.
The 2009 Board evaluation process focused upon key aspects of In 2009 updates were given to the Board on developments in various Board performance, including the effectiveness of the Companys areas of governance and regulatory issues, including the debate reaction to the economic downturn, risk assessment and the regarding changes to corporate governance in light of the banking strategy review process.
The review was carried out using a specially crisis, the draft Bribery Bill and The Companies Shareholders designed questionnaire prepared by an independent, specialist Rights Regulations 2009.
During the year Directors also attended organisation in conjunction with the Chairman and the Group external seminars and other functions relevant to specific areas of Secretary.
The questionnaire was completed by the Directors and their responsibility.
the Group Secretary with the results being collated and summarised by the organisation.
Each Director received a copy of the high level Relations with shareholders report, which summarised and analysed all responses on a nonThe Company has an established investor relations programme attributable basis.
managed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The The process also involved a series of discussions between the Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice a year, Chairman and members of the Board and the Group Secretary.
The with the publication of its Annual and Half-Yearly Financial Reports.
full Board then considered the report with the Chairman and Senior In conjunction with these announcements presentations are made Independent Director adding their own comments based on the to institutional investors and analysts, copies of which are posted on outcome of their discussions.
In addition, in 2009 the Company issued Interim Management Statements in May and The Chairman was judged to have performed satisfactorily against November.
Based on the results of the 2009 review the Board considered that overall it was operating effectively and that all Directors continue to contribute and are committed to their respective roles at Cookson.
34 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Company maintains a regular dialogue with major institutional The committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention investors and regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions and treatment of complaints received by the Company including are provided to the Board.
Board members also receive copies of accounting, internal controls, auditing matters and confidential significant analysts notes issued on the Company.
All Directors communications from employees.
normally attend the Companys AGM, providing shareholders with The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the committee the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Group, Chairman and the committee reviews and approves the internal either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
audit work programme for each year.
During the year under review, BOARD COMMITTEES the committee met five times and reviewed, amongst other matters, the Companys published financial results: internal audit reports and The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration management control issues: the scope of the external audit and its and Nominations Committees.
Each committee has written terms of cost-effectiveness: the performance of the Auditor: and the extent to reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the which the Auditors remuneration for non-audit services might affect Companys website www.
its independence and objectivity in carrying out the audit.
AUDIT COMMITTEE More specifically, the responsibilities of the committee were The Audit Committee members are the Non-executive Directors, discharged as follows: namely Jeff Hewitt, Peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry Perry and John Sussens.
Mr Hill joined the committee following his appointment at its meetings in July 2009 and February 2010, the committee to the Board on 1 February 2010.
During 2009 the committee was reviewed the Companys Half-Yearly Report and Annual Results chaired by Mr Hewitt.
The Board believes Mr Hewitt possesses the Announcement Annual Report and Accounts, respectively.
On relevant financial experience, as described by the Code.
both occasions, the committee received reports from the Auditor identifying any accounting or judgemental issues thereon The Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the requiring its attention: Companys Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, are normally invited to attend meetings and other executives are invited to attend as and when at each of the five meetings, the committee received a report appropriate.
The committee meets regularly with the Companys from the Group Head of Internal Audit covering, amongst other Auditor without any executives being present.
things, the work undertaken by the Internal Audit function and AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT management responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year.
In addition, at the The principal roles of the Audit Committee are: December 2009 meeting, the committee reviewed the internal assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities in audit plan, submitted by the Group Head of Internal Audit respect of statutory and other financial reporting and in respect for 2010: of its review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls at each of the five meetings, the committee reviewed the and risk management systems: Auditors control findings: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys at the July 2009 meeting, the committee reviewed the results of internal audit function: an assessment which had been undertaken of the performance making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and of the Auditor and reviewed and agreed the audit plan presented dismissal of the Auditor: by the Auditor, which detailed the approach and scope of the work to be undertaken and the level of fee to be charged: approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Auditor: monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory requirements: and helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor by providing a direct channel of communication between it and the Non-executive Directors.
co. uk The committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the at its meetings in December 2008 and January 2009, the independence of the external audit is not compromised.
These committee reviewed the approach and scope of the work to be safeguards include: undertaken by the Auditor, in its role as Reporting Accountant, in connection with its review of the profit forecast and working seeking confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the capital reports produced by management in relation to the rights Company in its own professional judgement: and issue announced in January 2009.
Also at these meetings, the committee reviewed the rights issue prospectus and reports considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the from management which supported the profit estimate and Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit working capital statements made therein: services and whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the Auditors judgement or independence.
at its meetings in December 2009 and February 2010 the committee reviewed both the risk management process operated The Company has a policy governing the Group-wide conduct of nonby management designed to identify the key risks facing each audit work by the Auditor.
Under that policy the Auditor is prohibited business and how those risks were being managed: from performing services where it: at its meeting in February 2010 the committee reviewed a report may be required to audit its own work: from management which addressed the appropriateness of the would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken production of the Group and Company financial statements on a by management: going concern basis: is remunerated through a success fee structure: or from time to time, executives were required to make presentations to the committee or to the full Board on the acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
identification, management and control of specific areas of risk Other than the above, the Company does not impose an automatic which impact the Company and the Group: and prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Auditor as a matter of routine, the committee was presented with is permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, or are not information on any significant litigation involving the Group.
perceived to be, in conflict with Auditor independence, provided it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in As noted above, one of the duties of the committee is to make the best interests of the Group.
Details of the amounts paid to the recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment Auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in of the Auditor.
In undertaking this duty, the committee takes into note 8 on page 80. consideration a number of factors concerning the Auditor and the Groups current activity, including: the quality both of reports The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the provided by the Auditor to the committee and the Board, and committee meetings to the Board and all members of the Board of advice given: the level of understanding demonstrated of the receive the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee Groups businesses: the objectivity of the Auditors views on the meetings.
controls throughout the Group: its ability to coordinate a global REMUNERATION COMMITTEE audit, working to tight deadlines: the cost-competitiveness of the The Remuneration Committee members are the Non-executive Auditor in relation to the audit costs of comparable UK companies: Directors, namely Jeff Hewitt, Peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry and the periodic rotation of the senior audit management assigned Perry and John Sussens who chairs the committee.
Mr Hill joined to the audit of the Company.
Having considered the aforementioned the committee following his appointment to the Board on 1 February factors in 2009, the committee decided to recommend the Auditor 2010.
The committees principal roles are to set the appropriate for reappointment.
remuneration for the Group Chairman, the executive Directors and the Group Secretary, and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the two layers of management below Chief Executive level.
Further details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the outcome of the committee meetings to the Board.
36 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND CENTRAL EXECUTIVE The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments In addition to the committees of the Board described above, the Group to, and retirements and resignations from, the Board.
The members has an Executive Committee which supports the Chief Executive of the committee are the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and in addressing Group-wide issues and initiatives.
This committee is any three Non-executive Directors.
The committee meets as and chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Group Finance when required and is chaired by the Group Chairman or a NonDirector, the Group Secretary and the Chief Executives of each of executive Director.
The Group Chairman would not act as Chairman the Groups three divisions.
Specific authority has been delegated to of the committee where it was dealing with the appointment of his the Central Executive comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance successor.
Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of Director and Group Secretary.
The Central Executive is responsible business: there is also a significant level of ad hoc discussion between for reviewing and approving capital expenditure, acquisitions and members of the committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise disposals at certain levels as determined by the Board.
for day-to-day operational management rests with the divisional Chief Executives.
On 1 February 2010, a new executive Director and a new Nonexecutive Director were appointed to the Board.
When considering INTERNAL CONTROL the appointment of these new Directors, the committee drew up The Directors are responsible for the establishment and maintenance specifications, taking into consideration the existing balance of of the Groups system of internal control.
skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and the ongoing The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code relating requirements of the Group.
It utilised the services of an external to internal control which require that the Directors review the recruitment consultant to identify appropriate candidates for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including role of Non-executive Director.
The Chairman and Chief Executive financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management met with the short-listed candidates and the remaining Directors systems.
Whilst no system of internal control can provide absolute then met with the preferred candidate.
The committee subsequently assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups system made recommendations for each appointment to the full Board.
is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees have sufficient that problems are identified on a timely basis and are dealt with time available to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of appropriately.
Since the date of the review, there have been no interest.
significant changes in internal controls or other matters which could The Nominations Committee reviews the Companys succession significantly affect them.
The Board as a whole also considers this subject.
Each of There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and Cooksons divisions submits detailed succession plans in respect managing any significant risks faced by Cookson.
Group management of senior divisional executives to the Board for review each year.
operates a risk management process designed to identify the key The Board also considers succession planning for senior Corporate risks facing each business and reports to the Board on how those executives, with the Nominations Committee focusing in turn, risks are being managed.
As a basis for this report, each of the specifically on succession planning for members of the Board.
Groups major business units produces a risk map which identifies The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports the outcome their key risks and assesses the likelihood of those risks occurring, of the committee meetings to the Board.
their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to a desired level.
FINANCE AND SHARE SCHEMES COMMITTEES The Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to the Finance and Share Schemes committees.
The Finance Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, its other members being the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
The committee meets as and when required to consider the approval of treasury-related matters.
The Share Schemes Committees membership consists of any two Directors.
It meets as and when required to undertake administrative matters in relation to the Companys share schemes.
co. uk The internal control system is monitored and supported by the Groups Internal Audit function, which operates on a global basis.
This function assists management and the Board in the effective discharge of their responsibility for internal control by conducting reviews of Cookson businesses and reporting objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control in place and as to whether those businesses are in compliance with applicable Group policies and procedures.
The Group Head of Internal Audit is responsible for developing the function, within the framework of common Group policies and standards, and for carrying out assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, it delegates the following matters to the Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: review of external and internal audit work plans: consideration of reports from management, internal audit and external audit on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses: and discussions with management on the actions taken on problem areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or in external audit management letters.
In addition to the above, the Board considers significant financing and investment decisions concerning the Group, including the giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
The Board also reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
At the year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and of the processes covering other controls, the Board evaluates the results of the internal control and risk management procedures conducted by senior management.
This includes a self-certification exercise by which they certify the effectiveness of the system of internal controls within the businesses for which they are responsible, together with their compliance throughout the year with the Groups policies and procedures.
By Ord er of the Board Richard M H Malthouse Group Secretary 2 March 2010
