Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 3 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 Corporate Governance A formal review of Board and Board The Directors have reviewed the Groups The Board receives sufficient management Committee performance is carried out compliance with the Combined Code on information and reports on all strategic and annually.
The Chairmans performance is Corporate Governance issued by the significant operational matters on a timely reviewed by the Remuneration Committee Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 basis.
Senior executives also attend Board excluding the Chairman in conjunction the Code and confirm that the Group meetings as appropriate.
Site visits and with the Chief Executive.
The other noncomplied in all aspects with the Code briefings by operational management to executive Directors performance is throughout the year, as follows: enhance the Boards understanding of the evaluated by the Chairman in consultation business take place regularly.
The Board with the executive Directors.
Executive Training including social, environmental and The Board is responsible for the Groups Directors performance is reviewed by the ethical matters is provided for new strategic development, monitoring Remuneration Committee in conjunction Directors as required, by means of a tailored achievement of its business objectives and with the Chief Executive, except in the case induction, and subsequently as required.
maintaining a system of effective corporate of his own performance review.
Directors can take independent professional governance, which includes the advice where necessary at the Companys Nominations Committee responsibility for health, safety, Chairman Anita Frew expense and have access to the services of environmental, social and ethical matters.
The Nominations Committee, comprising the Company Secretary whose appointment The Board comprises a non-executive all of the non-executive Directors and the is a Board matter and who is responsible for Chairman, three other non-executive Chief Executive, is responsible for regularly ensuring that Board procedures and all Directors and three executive Directors.
All reviewing the structure, size and applicable rules and regulations are of the Directors served throughout the year composition of the Board, including followed.
Appropriate levels of insurance with the exception of Blair Souder who succession planning and identifying and cover are obtained for all Directors and stepped down as an executive Director on recommending appropriate candidates for Officers of the Company.
31 March 2009 and Jonathan Azis who membership of the Board when vacancies retired as a non-executive Director on 30 The Board met formally eight times during arise.
In considering an appointment the September 2009.
The offices of Chairman the year.
There was full attendance at all Nominations Committee evaluates the and Chief Executive are separate and clearly meetings, with the exception of Blair Souder balance of skills, knowledge and experience distinct.
The division of their responsibilities and Giles Kerr, who were unable to attend of the Board and prepares a description of is set out in writing and has been agreed by one meeting and Jonathan Azis who was the role and capabilities required for a the Board.
There is no Deputy Chairman.
unable to attend two meetings.
External search year, the Chairman met with the other nonThe non-executive Directors including the consultants are then used to identify executive Directors without the executive Chairman, are all considered by the Board appropriate candidates.
This procedure was Directors present on one occasion, and the to be independent of the management most recently applied for the appointment Senior Independent Director met with the and free from any business or other of Patrick fide Smedt and Lawrence Pentz in other non-executive Directors, without the relationship that could materially interfere 2008.
The external search consultant used Chairman present, on one occasion.
with the exercise of their independent was Hanson Green.
Giles Kerr is the Senior The Board has delegated certain The Nominations Committee is also Independent Director.
responsibilities to standing Committees, responsible for annually reviewing the time which report back to the Board on the basis The Board has a clearly documented required from each non-executive Director.
of clearly defined terms of reference.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision, The Nominations Committee met three including approval of the Groups strategy, The terms of reference of the Committees times during the year and there was full the annual budget, material capital are available on the Companys website attendance at all meetings.
expenditure, material contracts, customer www.
com and, in paper form on Based on recommendations from the credit limits above certain levels, major request, from the Registered Office of the Nominations Committee, Directors submit investments and disposals and entering into Company.
themselves for re-election at the AGM material strategic alliances, joint ventures following their appointment and thereafter and partnerships.
The Board delegates dayby rotation, at least once every three years.
to-day and business management control to the executive Directors led by the Chief Executive.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 4 20 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governancecontinued Remuneration Committee Such non-audit services require approval by At its meeting on 24 November 2008, the Chairman Patrick fide Smedt the Committee.
In considering whether the Committee reviewed the Companys The Remuneration Committee was chaired provision of such services could impair the preliminary announcement of its results for by Jonathan Azis until his retirement with external auditors independence or the financial year ended 30 September 2008 effect from 30 September 2009, at which objectivity, the Committee is governed by and the draft Annual Report and Accounts point Patrick fide Smedt was appointed.
the following guidelines, which are for that year.
The external auditor reported incorporated in its terms of reference: to the Committee on the conduct of its The Remuneration Committee, comprising audit, its review of the accounts, including all of the non-executive Directors whether the skills and experience of the accounting policies and areas of judgement, external auditor make it a suitable excluding the Chairman, is responsible for and commented on risk management and supplier of the non-audit service under reviewing and recommending the consideration: control matters.
The results of regular framework and policy for remuneration of internal control reviews were also whether there are safeguards in place the Chairman, executive Directors and considered.
The Committee carried out the to ensure that there is no threat to senior executives, which the Board as a objectivity and independence in the annual appraisal of the external auditor whole is responsible for approving.
including reviewing non-audit fees and the conduct of the audit resulting from the Once approved, the Remuneration provision of such services by the external effectiveness of the audit process.
Committee is responsible for evaluating auditor: At its meeting on 8 May 2009, the the performance and determining specific the nature of the non-audit services, the Committee reviewed the Companys interim remuneration packages for the Chairman related fee levels individually and in results announcement and draft Half-yearly and each executive Director.
The Chairman aggregate relative to the audit fee and, Financial Report.
The external auditor and executive Directors are responsible the criteria which govern the reported to the Committee on its review.
for the agreement of non-executive compensation of the individuals The Committee also considered the results Directors remuneration.
of regular internal control reviews.
The Remuneration Committee met four In principle the external auditor should not On 22 September 2009, the external times during the year and there was full provide any service which: auditor presented its proposed fees and attendance at all meetings.
results in the external auditor auditing scope for the audit for the year ended 30 Audit Committee its own firms work: September 2009.
The Committee also Chairman Giles Kerr leads to the external auditor making a carried out its annual performance appraisal The Audit Committee, comprising all of the management decision for the Company: and terms of reference review.
non-executive Directors except the creates a mutuality of interest or, At its meeting on 23 November 2009, the Chairman, is responsible for assisting the leads to the external auditor being put in Committee reviewed the Companys Board with its responsibilities in respect of the role of advocate for the Company.
preliminary announcement of its results for external financial reporting.
This includes The Audit Committee met three times the financial year ended 30 September reviewing the Groups financial statements, during the year and there was full 2009 and the draft Annual Report and preliminary announcements and any formal attendance at all meetings.
Only Accounts for that year.
The external auditor announcements relating to financial Committee members are entitled to attend reported to the Committee on the conduct performance, or other statements a meeting.
However, the Chairman, the of its audit, its review of the accounts, containing financial information, before Finance Director, the Deputy Group Finance including policies and areas of judgement, submission to the Board for endorsement.
Director and the External Audit and commented on risk management and The Committee also reviews the Groups Engagement Director are normally invited control matters.
The results of internal whistleblowing policy.
Others are also invited control matters were also considered.
The It is also responsible for overseeing all to attend as appropriate.
A section of at Committee carried out the annual appraisal matters associated with the appointment, least one meeting each year takes place of the external auditor including reviewing terms, remuneration and performance of without management present.
non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the the external auditor and for reviewing the audit process.
scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Committee reviews annually the independence and objectivity of the external auditor taking into account the non-audit services provided by the firm.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 5 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 Control environment Disclosure Committee Relations with shareholders Chairman Anita Frew, David Hummel The Group maintains a clearly defined and The Company is always ready, where or Michael Peacock well established control environment.
The practicable, to enter into dialogue with The Disclosure Committees responsibilities Groups strategy is established and institutional shareholders to promote a are to ensure that the Companys periodically reviewed by the Board and key mutual understanding of objectives.
obligations to make timely and accurate projects are considered in this context.
The Institutional investor relations activity is disclosure of information in accordance with management of the Group is delegated to normally concentrated in the periods any applicable law or regulation are met in the Chief Executive and his fellow executive following the announcement of the interim circumstances where it is impractical for the Directors.
Authority is delegated to senior and final results.
More broadly based Board, or any other Board Committee with executives as appropriate and the presentations and site visits are arranged delegated responsibility, to fulfil those organisational requirements of a rapidly when there is a sufficient demand to make obligations.
In accordance with these developing business are regularly reviewed.
The AGM provides the responsibilities the Committee may make Board with an opportunity to meet The Groups financial controls enable the disclosures on behalf of the Board.
informally and communicate directly with Board to meet its responsibilities for the private investors.
Proxy votes lodged on The Committee comprises all Directors of integrity and accuracy of the Groups each AGM resolution are announced.
the Company and senior finance executives.
The Chairman of each Committee meeting To ensure that the Board, particularly the In its reporting to shareholders, the Board will be appointed on an ad hoc basis.
non-executive Directors, understands the aims to present a balanced and A quorum for a Committee meeting will be views of major shareholders, the understandable assessment of the Groups any two Committee members, provided that Companys broker provides a summary of financial position and prospects.
The this includes at least one of the Companys feedback from the meetings following Groups two divisions are separately Chairman, the Chief Executive or the the announcement of the interim and managed by divisional boards, which each Finance Director.
Meetings of the final results.
submit monthly executive commentaries of Committee may be called by any member The Board is also regularly provided with financial and non-financial results through of the Committee on any period of notice summaries of analysts views on the a standardised reporting process to the provided that notice is given to all members.
In addition the Chairman is Board.
In addition, Head Office Group The Committee will consider the available to meet institutional shareholders.
functions are consolidated with these circumstances that give rise to the potential The Senior Independent Director and other divisions and the resulting Group position need for a disclosure, whether it is practical non-executive Directors will attend meetings is reported monthly in a Group executive for the Board or any other Board with major shareholders if requested.
Committee to consider the potential Internal control The Group has a comprehensive process disclosure and, if it is impractical, the form The Group has complied with the Code of annual budgeting, detailed monthly and content of a disclosure to be made on provisions on internal control by operating management reporting and regular behalf of the Board.
throughout the year ended 30 September forecasting linked to the Groups The Committee will take advice, including 2009 and up to the date of approval of this business objectives.
advice from the Companys broker, external Annual Report those procedures necessary The Directors have also reviewed the auditor and legal advisors, on the form and to implement the recommendations of the need for an internal audit function and content of any disclosure under Turnbull Committee and by reporting in have concluded that there is no consideration.
The Group has a The Board is ultimately responsible for the clear and ongoing process for identifying, Groups system of internal control which evaluating and managing significant risks, covers all controls including financial, which is managed by the Risk operational, compliance and risk Management Committee.
management as further described below and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 6 22 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governancecontinued Risk Management Committee Currency Committee Chairman Tim Walker Chairman David Hummel The Risk Management Committee is chaired The Currency Committee is chaired by the by the Production and Technical Director, Chief Executive, and comprises one other and comprises one other executive Director executive Director and senior finance and senior executives from the operational, executives.
It meets monthly to review and commercial and finance functions.
It is manage the Groups currency hedging responsible for ensuring that all risks facing activities.
The Board is responsible for the Group are reduced to an acceptable setting the hedging policy.
Currently the Group exports 96% of sales from the UK.
These sales are primarily This is achieved by an ongoing review denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
which includes identifying all risks faced by Group hedging policy is to defer the impact the Group and assessing those risks, whilst on profits of currency movements by recognising existing control measures, so hedging: that unacceptable risks are identified.
Plans are developed and implemented to a minimum of 90% and a maximum of eliminate, reduce or transfer these risks 100% of projected transaction exposures where practicable.
The Committee is also arising from trading in the forthcoming responsible for reviewing the risk six month period and, management and control process within a minimum of 75% and a maximum of the Group.
100% of projected transaction exposures arising in the following six month period.
The Committee meets quarterly and regularly reports to the Board.
In addition, Profitability can nevertheless vary due to the Board undertakes annually a formal the impact of fluctuating exchange rates review of the risk management process on the uncovered portion of the transaction and the performance of the Risk exposures and from revised forecasts of Management Committee.
future trading, which can lead to an adjustment of currency cover in place.
The impact of this hedging policy is disclosed in notes 15 and 25 to the financial statements.
