50 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance Compliance with the Combined Code The Board is committed to the principles of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
This report sets out the Companys compliance with the Code.
The Code requires listed companies to report how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied, giving sufficient detail to enable shareholders to evaluate the report and to state whether there has been compliance with the provisions of the Code, providing an explanation for any points of non-compliance.
Throughout the period of this report, the Board has been in compliance with the Code.
The Board The Board comprises the non-executive Chairman Michael Jeffries, Chief Executive Paul Lester, three further executive directors and five non-executive Directors.
Andrew Given is the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and main commitments are set on out pages 38 to 39.
David Thorpe resigned from the Board on 12 May 2008 and Ian Tyler was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on the same day.
The Code requires the Company to have an effective Board whose role is to provide leadership and vision for the Group within a framework of controls which allow risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets strategic aims and the Companys values and ensures that obligations to shareholders are met.
The role of non-executive Directors includes the development of strategy, the scrutiny of management and ensuring the integrity of financial information and risk management systems.
The Board believes it has met these requirements.
The Board holds full meetings at least seven times a year, spread across the full calendar year.
In addition, there is a separate meeting each year to discuss the strategic plan.
The Directors believe that these meetings enable the Board to exercise control over the Group and remain fully conversant with its activities.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which only the Board itself can change.
These matters include the acquisition and disposal of businesses, major projects, risk management strategies and processes, significant contractual commitments, health and safety and succession planning.
The Chairman meets with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present at least once a year.
Directors and officers of the Group have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Company has agreed to indemnify each Director through a deed of indemnity in respect of certain liabilities to third parties which may be incurred as a result of discharging his or her duties as a Director.
A copy is available for inspection.
The number of scheduled Board and committee meetings attended by each Director was as follows: Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination M M E Jeffries 7 7 n a 3 3 1 1 D M Barclay 7 7 5 5 3 3 1 1 Baroness Blackstone 6 7 n a 3 3 1 1 Lord Boyce 7 7 n a 3 3 1 1 C J Cundy 7 7 n a n a n a P J Harrison 7 7 n a n a n a A F Given 7 7 5 5 3 3 1 1 P J Lester 7 7 n a n a n a P J McIntosh 7 7 n a n a n a D A Thorpe resigned 12 May 2008 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 I M Tyler appointed 12 May 2008 7 7 5 5 n a n a VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 51 Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Code requires that there should be a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and executive responsibility for the running of the business so that no one person has unrestricted power.
The Board has met this requirement by establishing clearly defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This division of responsibilities is set down in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Once the strategic and financial objectives have been agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives responsibility to ensure their delivery.
He chairs the Group Executive Committee and leads and motivates the senior management team.
The Chief Executive is obliged to comply with a practical schedule of matters requiring Board approval before implementation: this schedule is reviewed regularly.
The current commitments of Michael Jeffries outside VT Group are as chairman of NCP Services Limited and Wyless plc.
Board balance and independence The Company complies with the requirements of the Code that there should be a balance of executive and non-executive directors so that no individual or small group can dominate decision making.
The Board has met the Code requirement that at least 50 per cent of the Board should be independent throughout the year.
In deciding the chairmanship and membership of Board committees, both the need to refresh membership and the skills of the individuals are taken into account.
All non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
In reaching this determination the Board has had regard to the relevant criteria under the Code including length of service, in particular with regard to Andrew Given and David Barclay who have served on the Board since September 2002 and May 2003 respectively.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys share, bonus or pension schemes.
At the time of his appointment as Chairman, and in compliance with the Code, Michael Jeffries was considered to be independent.
In accordance with the new regime for dealing with directors conflicts of interest under the Companies Act 2006, processes are in place to ensure that, in the event of a potential conflict of interest, this is reported to and, if appropriate, authorised in advance by the Board.
The Director involved takes no part in the relevant discussion.
Appointments to the Board There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
Odgers, Ray & Berndtson were retained as consultants for the appointment of Ian Tyler.
The Company has a talent management and succession planning process.
Information and professional development A main principle of the Code is that information of sufficient quality is supplied to the Board in a timely manner.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman, ensures that the Board is supplied with detailed information several days prior to the Board meeting.
The agenda for each Board meeting includes substantial reports on all aspects of the Groups business and ad-hoc reports are circulated if decisions are required between formally arranged meetings.
Non-executive Directors have ready access to executive Directors.
Board meetings are held at different company locations during the year as well as at the head office, enabling Directors to make site visits.
Executive Directors carry out regular business reviews at different locations throughout the year.
All newly-appointed Directors are provided with a structured induction programme which includes meetings both internally and externally with those principally involved with the business.
Ongoing training is provided for all Directors to ensure that they are aware of their responsibilities.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board processes and procedures are followed.
Performance evaluation The Code requires the Board to undertake annually a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and the Directors.
This year, the Board considered the merit of using an external body or facilitator to manage the performance evaluation process.
The Board concluded that it remained appropriate to evaluate its own performance this year, but will keep under review whether to use external resources in future years.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 52 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance continued This years evaluation was conducted by means of detailed questionnaires which were completed by each Director.
Comments were invited on a wide range of issues including: The Boards role and culture Risk management Board and committee processes Strategy Knowledge and skills Compliance Performance Board structure Matters raised in last years review Dialogue with investors Succession planning The Chairman has discussed the results and sought further feedback during one-to-one meetings with each member of the Board.
In addition, the performance of the Chairman has been subject to appraisal by the Board, led by the Senior Independent Director.
Overall, the Board has concluded that it is operating effectively.
However, a number of areas for further improvement were identified as a result of the evaluation exercise and an action plan is being developed.
Next years review will monitor progress in these areas.
Re-election Under the Code, Directors should offer themselves for re-election at regular intervals and all the Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Directors stand for reappointment by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequently at least every three years.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years and may be reappointed for a further term of three years by agreement of the Board.
Where no clear replacement has been identified, a Director may remain for a third three-year term.
On appointment, each non-executive Director receives a letter setting out the terms of his or her appointment.
The terms and conditions are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily business of the Group.
Remuneration Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out opposite and the Remuneration report is on pages 58 to 65.
Board committees The Board has the following standing committees, each of which has its own terms of reference which are available on request and on the companys website.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each committee.
Audit Committee Members during the year were: Andrew Given chairman, David Barclay and Ian Tyler.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director and a representative of the external auditor attend by invitation.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
At least once a year the external auditor is able to meet the committee without the executive Directors being present.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities regarding the Group financial statements, the adequacy of internal controls and the work of the external auditor.
The terms of reference of the committee were reviewed during the year.
During the year the Committee considered, among other items: The effectiveness of the Groups risk management processes The effectiveness of the internal audit function Significant financial reporting issues and judgements The annual audit strategy with the external auditor The scope of internal audit work Matters raised by the internal and external auditors The Board has determined that the Committee members have sufficient skills and experience to contribute meaningfully to the Committees discussions.
The chairman of the Committee has the required experience in accounting and financial management.
The Committee takes account of the guidance in the Code on audit committees.
The Committee has set parameters so that the independence of the external auditor is not prejudiced when undertaking non-audit work.
Such work is either prohibited or requires prior approval from the Finance Director or Committee, as appropriate.
Non-audit work may include tax advice, due diligence and other transaction-related services.
The Company has appointed a different firm of accountants from its auditor as its principal tax advisor.
The cost effectiveness and impact on any corporate relationship with the auditor are considered when awarding non-audit work.
In turn, the external auditor has in place processes to ensure that its independence is maintained.
Fees paid to the auditor in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 totalled 1.7m of which 0.95m related to the statutory audit of the Group for the year.
See note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 53 Remuneration Committee Members during the year were: David Barclay chairman, Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, Andrew Given and Michael Jeffries.
The Committee comprises exclusively non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive and Group HR Director attend the Committee by invitation when appropriate.
No executive is present when the committee considers matters relating to himself or herself.
Michael Jeffries is absent when his remuneration is under consideration.
The Committee meets periodically when required but not less than twice a year.
The Committees responsibilities are described in the Remuneration report on page 58.
The Committee has access to information and advice from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive remuneration.
During the year the Committee considered, among other matters: Senior and executive staff remuneration and incentivisation Employee share plan participation Nomination Committee Members during the year were: Michael Jeffries chairman, Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, David Barclay and Andrew Given.
All Directors appointments are considered before formal approval by the Board and the Committee aims to maintain a proper balance between executive and non-executive Directors in accordance with the Code.
The Committee leads the process for identifying, and recommending, candidates for appointment as Directors, giving full consideration to succession planning and the needs of the Group, including qualifications and expertise to guide the strategy of the Group.
Before concluding arrangements with preferred candidates for appointment to the Board, the Committee satisfies itself that their other commitments are not such that they would adversely affect the candidates ability to devote adequate time to the position.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board Committees.
The Committee meets when required.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend.
The Committee has access to such information and advice as it may require both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company.
This may include the appointment of external search consultants.
Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee GEC is the Chief Executives committee and is responsible for managing the business.
It comprises the executive Directors together with the Managing Directors of the business units, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary.
It meets fortnightly throughout the year.
Executives who are not committee members are invited to make presentations to the Committee during the year.
The GEC focuses on the implementation of strategy, decision making, monitoring of operational performance and leading and facilitating change in the Group.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting The Board is required to present a balanced and comprehensible assessment of the Groups position and prospects and is satisfied it has met this obligation.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 66.
Organisation The Group has a defined structure in which operational management has detailed responsibilities and levels of authorisation.
The Group has a Code of Business Ethics setting out principles to be followed by all employees in the course of business.
A confidential telephone line is available for staff to report concerns with regard to conduct.
Ethical trading Further information on the Groups ethical trading policies is given in the Corporate responsibility report on page 42.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 54 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance continued Internal controls In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the revised Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
The Group has established a system of internal control policies and a process for identifying, assessing and reporting the key risks faced by the Group.
These have been embedded across our business and have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the system of internal controls within the Group.
Responsibility for the implementation of such Board policies and procedures lies with the management team of each operating business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
In order to support the Board in monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control the Group appoints a head of internal audit.
The head of internal audit reports directly to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition the Group continues to engage external advisors to support the internal audit programme of work.
The Group has developed a process of internal control self assessment which has been applied consistently across the Group.
This includes a bi-annual certification from each business division of compliance with key financial and fundamental operating controls in addition to risk management processes.
The results of this exercise are utilised in planning the programme of internal audits for the forthcoming year.
Internal audit reports to the Audit Committee on its key findings and recommendations for control improvements at least quarterly.
Conclusions from the internal audit process feed back into the risk management process.
These procedures allow for the escalation of key issues through the management team, and finally to the Board if appropriate.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within associates and joint ventures rests with the senior management of these operations.
We monitor our investments and exert our influence through Board representation.
The Boards key internal control and monitoring procedures include the following: Annual budgets which are prepared and approved by the Board for each operating business.
Monthly management reporting focuses on actual performance against these budgets and, when appropriate, revised forecasts The review of internal and external audit reports on the system of internal controls across the Group Embedded policies and procedures across the Group including capital expenditure, delegation of authority, treasury management and a framework of financial controls The development of Group-wide policies to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk including fraud Agreement of the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external and internal auditors Reviewing the adequacy of the level of experienced and professional staff throughout the business and the expertise of individual staff members so that they are capable of carrying out their respective responsibilities The review of major tenders and contract performance compared to the estimates prepared at the time of the original tender The Groups risk management process is described on pages 48 to 49.
Going concern The Directors are required to make appropriate enquires to ensure that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In making these enquiries the Board has considered: The availability of the Groups existing banking facilities of the 305m of available facilities, 80m is available until March 2011 and the remaining 225m is available until November 2011 Forecast cash flows for the two years ended 31 March 2011 and consequent available headroom against the Groups existing facilities A review of the Groups compliance with covenants under its facilities during this period and in the longer term A sensitivity analysis of key inputs into the cash flow forecasts including crystallisation of contingent liabilities and covenant calculation After making these enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
