33 Corporate governance report Introduction The following table identifies the attendance record of individual The Board remains committed to the principles of good directors at the eight board meetings held during 2009. governance.
Good corporate governance, using the Combined Code as a guide to the components of good practice, is Name Attendance an integral part of the Boards stewardship obligations.
The interpretation of good governance changes over time but the Lord Smith 8 of 8 Group constantly aims for best practice in all matters and, by Keith Cochrane 8 of 8 Michael Dearden 8 of 8 doing so, promotes the success of the business to the benefit Stephen King 8 of 8 of the shareholders.
1 Richard Menell 5 of 6 As part of the Boards review into its effectiveness conducted Alan Mitchelson 8 of 8 during the year, the Board considered its composition and skills John Mogford 7 of 8 and concluded that it has the right experience to address and Professor Ian Percy 8 of 8 respond to the challenges it faces.
Lord Robertson 7 of 8 2 Mark Selway 8 of 8 The Combined Code This report explains how the Company applies the principles of the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code on Corporate 1 Richard Menell was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2009.
2 Governance the Combined Code published in June 2008 and Mark Selway resigned as a director on 8 December 2009. appended to the Listing Rules.
The Combined Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council website.
During the 53 weeks Re-election of directors ended 1 January 2010, the Company complied with all provisions The Companys articles of association require that all directors set out in the Combined Code.
appointed to the Board other than at an annual general meeting of the Company are required to retire at the following annual Board of directors general meeting when they may offer themselves for election.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for its In addition, one third of the remaining members of the Board decision.
This schedule is reviewed regularly and includes or, where that number is not a whole number, the nearest lower approval of: whole number are required to retire by rotation, subject to all environmental, health and safety policies: directors submitting themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any non-executive director who has served on the annual and half-year financial results, interim management Board for more than six years is subject to a particularly rigorous statements and trading updates: review and any director who has held office for more than nine years is required to submit himself for re-election annually.
dividend policy: Board appointments: Board information and development On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation Group strategy and the annual operating budget: on the Group and its activities.
New directors are provided with an appropriate induction programme and, where appropriate, changes to the Groups management and control structure: site visits are arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: is provided as necessary.
treasury policies: and All directors are provided with updates on corporate governance developments, legislative and regulatory changes and relevant risk management strategy and the system of internal controls.
Board meetings In the 53 weeks to 1 January 2010, the Board met eight times, with one meeting at Weir SPM in Texas, USA.
The majority of meetings were held at the Companys head office in Glasgow with two meetings held in London at the time of the Companys annual and interim announcements.
There is regular contact outside formal meetings between the chairman, chief executive and the other directors.
34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance report continued The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate All directors bring their own independent judgement to major information to enable it to discharge its duties, and any further matters affecting the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors back-up papers and information are readily available to all is considered by the Company to be independent, with the directors on request to the company secretary.
The chairman exception of Professor Percy, who, as set out in the Chairmans ensures that non-executive directors are properly briefed on statement, will be retiring from the Board prior to the forthcoming any issues arising at board meetings and non-executive directors annual general meeting after over thirteen years with the Group.
have access to the chairman at any time.
The non-executive directors are independent of management.
Board evaluation None of the non-executive directors has any material business A formal process for evaluating the performance of the Board or other relationship with the Company.
Each member of the is undertaken annually.
This process is conducted internally, Board has considerable experience at senior level in other based on a detailed questionnaire completed by each director companies, which allows for well informed and broadly based as well as individual and collective discussions.
The board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
The evaluation examines the balance of skills of the directors, the operation of the Board in practice including its corporate There is a division of responsibilities between the chairman, governance and the operation and content of board meetings.
who is responsible for leading and running the Board and related The findings are used to assist the Board in its consideration matters and the chief executive, who has executive responsibility of the opportunities for improvement in the performance of the for running the Groups business and developing the appropriate Board and its directors.
organisational structure for a global organisation.
The chief executive chairs the Group Executive Committee.
The Board also conducts an internal review of the effectiveness of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees The executive directors have contracts of service with one incorporating a questionnaire covering such matters as the role years notice, whilst non-executive directors are appointed on and organisation of each committee, meeting arrangements, a rotational basis for periods of up to three years.
The letters of information provision and effectiveness.
Following completion appointment of the chairman and the non-executive directors, of these questionnaires by the members of each committee, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered the chairman meets with each of them to discuss the feedback.
office, set out the required commitment to the Company.
The results of the evaluation for 2009 were reported to the Directors conflicts of interests Board and, where areas for improvement had been identified, The statutory duties for directors relating to conflicts of interest, actions were agreed.
set out in the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, came into Additionally, a one-to-one appraisal of all board members force on 1 October 2008.
Under the 2006 Act, a director must is undertaken annually by the chairman.
An appraisal of the avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect chairman is carried out by the senior independent director, interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys with input from other board members.
The Company has adopted a formal procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of directors Board balance and independence conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest in accordance The Board currently comprises the chairman, chief executive, with these provisions.
The procedure requires directors formally legal and commercial director and six non-executive directors, to notify the Board, via the company secretary, as soon as they all of whom are independent.
Michael Dearden was appointed become aware of any actual or potential conflict of interest with senior independent director in November 2009.
Jon Stanton their duties to the Company or of any material change in existing is expected to join the Group as finance director in April 2010. or potential conflicts that may have been authorised by the Board.
The Board continues to monitor and review potential conflicts of There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent interest on a regular basis.
A register is maintained of all such professional advice, where appropriate, on any matter at the disclosures and the terms of any such authorisation.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
The company secretary is also responsible for facilitating the induction and professional development of the board members and information flows within the Board, its committees and between the non-executive directors and senior management.
35 Shareholders Board committees The Company is committed to a process of continual dialogue Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, with its shareholders, including making appropriate contact all of which have written terms of reference which are available with institutional investors and their representative bodies when on the Companys website.
The company secretary acts as there are specific matters to discuss.
This dialogue with its secretary to all these committees.
institutional shareholders is in the form of the Groups investor Group Executive Committee relations programme.
This includes regular update meetings and The Group Executive Committee comprises the chief executive, presentations with major shareholders and industry analysts.
finance director, legal and commercial director whose Feedback from these presentations, which is reported to the biographies are on pages 28 and 29 and the three divisional Board, gives investors an opportunity to comment on the quality managing directors whose details are set out below: of the communications they receive in their contact with the chief executive and finance director.
Attendees at the results Phil Clifton 50 is the Weir Power & Industrial Divisional Managing presentations include the chairman, the executive directors, the Director based in East Kilbride, UK.
Phil joined the Group from senior independent director and a number of the non-executive AWG PLC, the parent company of Anglian Water, where he directors.
The Company also encourages communication was responsible for government services and group business with private shareholders throughout the year and welcomes development.
Prior to AWG, he was managing director of Reyrolle their participation at shareholder meetings.
In addition to the Ltd, an international business in the industrial power group of chairmans statement at the annual general meeting, a trading Rolls-Royce PLC.
update to shareholders is given and details of the Companys Steve Noon 45 is the Weir Oil & Gas Divisional Managing trading activities are on display.
The directors attend the annual Director based in Fort Worth, USA.
Steve has worked with several general meeting and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration multi-nationals including Schefenacker Vision Systems, James and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
Hardie Industries and The Toro Company.
Before joining the The date of the key publications in 2010 can be found on the Group in 2007, he held the position of president of Schefenacker Companys website.
Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders Scot Smith 46 is the Weir Minerals Divisional Managing Director at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company based in Madison, USA.
Prior to joining the Group, Scot spent conducts the vote at the annual general meeting by electronic 18 years in the automotive industry with companies such as Van poll and the result of the votes including proxies is published Dresser Corporation, General Motors and Britax.
Within Britax, on the Companys website after the annual general meeting.
Scot held a number of positions including marketing director, Electronic proxy voting, details of which are included in the managing director of Britax Geco and latterly regional managing notice of the 2010 annual general meeting, is available.
Voting director for the Americas.
participation at the annual general meetings in 2007, 2008 and 2009 was 61%, 56% and 64% respectively.
In the 53 weeks to 1 January 2010, the Group Executive Committee met 12 times.
Communications The Board considers that the annual report and financial The Group Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring that statements and interim statements present a balanced and each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that understandable assessment of the Groups performance and the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the prospects.
In addition to information which any company is under Board, are achieved.
a legal or regulatory requirement to publish, the Group frequently The Committees role includes the preparation of the Group publicises other business developments through the specialised budget for approval by the Board, management of business trade press and its own internal bulletins, which have wide performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and circulation and through the news section on both the divisional maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent and Company websites.
information on all aspects of business performance, managing The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary company information, is regularly updated and includes the mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of the coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career full year and interim results.
The website also contains an online development planning.
It also approves major items of capital version of the notice of the annual general meeting, the annual expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
report and financial statements and the interim report.
36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance report continued General Administration Committee Nomination Committee The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are The members of the Committee during the year were Lord Smith to allot shares under the Group Long Term Incentive Plan and chairman, Keith Cochrane, Michael Dearden, Professor Ian other matters of a routine nature.
This Committee comprises the Percy, Mark Selway and Lord Robertson.
Alan Mitchelson acts executive members of the Board and meets as required.
as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and at other times when necessary, and in 2009 met Remuneration Committee four times.
The following table identifies the attendance record of The chairman of the Committee is Michael Dearden.
The other individual directors at the Committee meetings held during 2009. members of the Committee are Lord Robertson and Professor Ian Percy.
John Mogford joined the Committee in 2010.
Name Attendance The secretary to the Committee is Alan Mitchelson.
The Committee consists exclusively of non-executive directors Lord Smith chairman 4 of 4 who are independent of management and free from any business 1 1 of 1 Keith Cochrane or other relationship which could materially interfere with the 4 of 4 Michael Dearden exercise of their independent judgement.
No member of the 4 of 4 Professor Ian Percy Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as 4 of 4 Lord Robertson a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
2 Mark Selway 2 of 2 The minutes of each meeting are circulated to the Board.
1 Keith Cochrane was appointed to the Committee on 2 November 2009.
The responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: 2 Mark Selway ceased to be a member of the Committee on 16 September 2009. to determine the policy on the remuneration and performance of executive directors of the Company: The Committee uses external search consultants to assist it in its work.
to determine the conditions of employment, including levels of salary, pension arrangements, bonuses and share awards of The Committee primarily monitors the composition and balance the members of the Group Executive Committee: of the Board and its committees and identifies and recommends to the Board the appointment of new directors.
The Committees to determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes: terms of reference establish a framework through which it can and operate to ensure the selection process of Board candidates is to recommend to the Board the remuneration of the chairman conducted in a formal, disciplined and objective manner.
considering candidates, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares The Committee is constituted and operated throughout the year a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Combined appointment.
The Committee also reviews the succession Code.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on planning and leadership needs of the organisation and ensures the Companys website.
that, on appointment, all directors receive a formal contract or The Committee met four times in 2009.
The following table letter of appointment as appropriate.
The Committees terms identifies the attendance record of individual directors at the of reference are available on the Companys website.
During the year, the Committee undertook the search for a new chief executive to succeed Mark Selway.
Having considered the Name Attendance Groups succession plans and reviewed the external candidates identified by search consultants, the Committee recommended Michael Dearden chairman 4 of 4 to the Board the appointment of Keith Cochrane as chief Professor Ian Percy 4 of 4 executive.
The Committee then undertook the search for a Lord Robertson 4 of 4 new finance director, with both internal and external candidates being considered, and identified Jon Stanton as Keith Cochranes replacement.
Both recommendations were approved by the Board.
37 Audit Committee There were three meetings in 2009, in January, March and July.
The chairman of the Committee is Stephen King.
During the year, The following table identifies the attendance record of individual the other members of the Committee were Professor Ian Percy, directors at the Committee meetings held during 2009.
Richard Menell who was appointed to the Committee on 1 April 2009 and John Mogford.
The secretary to the Committee is Name Attendance Alan Mitchelson.
In addition, the chief executive, finance director, the head of internal audit and the external auditors attend each Stephen King chairman 3 of 3 meeting.
The head of internal audit and the external auditors also 1 Richard Menell 1 of 1 have access to the chairman of the Committee outside formal John Mogford 3 of 3 Committee meetings.
Professor Ian Percy 3 of 3 The Board is satisfied that Stephen King has recent and relevant financial experience.
1 Richard Menell was appointed to the Committee on 1 April 2009.
The Committee has the ability to call on Groups employees to assist in its work and also has access to independent advice.
The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items for consideration at its meetings and within the annual audit cycle The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of the overseeing the financial reporting and internal risk management Combined Code.
During the March meeting, the Committee control functions and for making recommendations to the Board undertook a full review of the audit with the Groups auditors.
in relation to the appointment of the Groups external auditors.
In the course of 2009, the Committee discussed the following The Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board for matters: satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, the annual report and financial statements, the half year report integrity and accountability and in accordance with such existing and interim management statements, any significant audit statutory and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable issues, accounting policies and financial reporting issues and to the Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
judgements identified by the finance director and the auditors: the annual report disclosures relevant to the Committee, Its duties are to: including the going concern statement and the reports on consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the risk management and internal control: auditors and the level of audit fee: the terms of reference for the Committee: discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit: the internal audit scope and approach for 2009: review the draft interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval: the results of the Group compliance scorecard: discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual the Group accounting policies: audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise: the findings of internal audit reviews undertaken by discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial  LLP and the head of internal audit: controls and any recommendations for improvement: the fees for Ernst & Young LLP for 2009: consider the findings of internal investigations and managements the audit strategy for year end 2009 audit: response: the fraud and error guidelines contained in ISA240: and oversee the implementation of systems for financial control and risk management: the Group whistleblowing policy.
pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor: review the internal audit programme and its implementation: receive and review internal audit reports: and review treasury policy.
The Committee also reviews the guidance issued by bodies such as the Financial Reporting Council into the work of audit committees and incorporates any recommendations into its working practices.
38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance report continued The minutes of each meeting are circulated to the Board.
Internal control The Committees terms of reference can be found on the In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, Companys website.
the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of companies.
This process has been in place throughout 2009 and the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment which up until the date of this report, except that it did not apply to the is subject to review at least every five years and on their ongoing Groups joint ventures.
The directors have overall responsibility work to ensure that the independence of the Groups auditors is for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its not threatened, particularly by the provision of non-audit services.
The Board delegates to executive management the During the year, the Committee reviewed the auditors process for responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring both the ensuring their independence and effectiveness and commented system and the maintenance of effective internal control in each on their internal quality control procedures.
The Committee are of the businesses which comprise the Group.
In addition, each satisfied as to their continued independence.
operating company is responsible for the operation of key internal Prior approval of the Committee is required where the expected controls and to formally assess the effectiveness of the internal cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed external control environment through the submission, twice yearly, of the auditors is in excess of 75,000.
An internal audit function is in place to review and challenge the The day-to-day implementation of the Committees policies are effectiveness of key internal controls and to suggest relevant delegated to the finance director who in turn monitors each of the actions to address potential weaknesses.
The internal audit Groups subsidiaries to ensure that all engagements fall within the review programme is based on a risk based approach that helps Committees guidelines.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in to prioritise resource upon the areas of perceived greatest risk to respect of audit and assurance services of 1.2m 2008: 1.3m the Group.
This process is supplemented by a number of peer and transaction support services of nil 2008: 0.2m in respect reviews that seek to further monitor and evaluate the process of of 2009 were approved by the Committee.
internal control and share best practice around the Group.
The Group maintains a whistleblowing policy in line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, on a Internal audit and peer review reports are reviewed by the Audit confidential basis, to raise concerns internally in cases where Committee which considers and determines relevant action in they believe they have discovered malpractice or impropriety.
respect of any control issues raised.
This is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Complaints can be made As part of the control framework, each Group operating company either to line managers or directly to the company secretary who and business prepares a Risk and Control Framework for their will appoint an investigating officer.
Action will be taken in cases respective business.
As part of this process, the operating where the complaint is shown to be justified and at all times the companies prepare a report identifying the relative probability complainant is informed of progress and outcomes.
In addition, and severity of the risks identified, the process for managing the auditors can be brought in to review procedures if appropriate.
and mitigating these risks and the means by which management The whistleblowing policy is available to all staff within the Group might be assured that the processes are effective.
These frameworks are considered and approved by the Group Principles of business conduct Executive Committee.
As an international company, the Groups approach to maintaining high ethical standards is critical to its business In addition, a Group Risk and Control Framework is prepared, success.
The Groups operating policies, which provide guidance taking account of the significant risks identified by the individual in this area, have been communicated throughout the Group units together with other Group-wide risks.
The Group Risk and through its intranet.
A copy is available from the company Control Framework is considered and adopted by the Board secretary.
These policies are reviewed on a regular basis.
which is responsible for the risk management strategy.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
39 The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Group Risk and Control Framework and how they are managed or mitigated are summarised on pages 30 to 32.
The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the year.
This is refined as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
Regular performance reports are provided to the executive directors, the Audit Committee and the Board, as appropriate.
Where weaknesses are identified, plans and timetables for addressing them are also reported.
In addition to the Group Risk and Control Framework, other procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of internal control are as follows: A clearly defined organisational structure within which individual responsibilities are identified and monitored.
A Group compliance scorecard which records compliance with the policies and procedures.
Policies and procedures manuals are in place and communicated to all Group operating companies through the Group intranet.
The managing directors are responsible for ensuring that each company observes and implements these policies and procedures which are continuously reviewed and updated.
A comprehensive annual planning and financial reporting system incorporating consolidated management accounts, which compares results with forecast and the previous year on a monthly and cumulative basis.
Management information systems provide directors with relevant and timely reports that identify significant variations from approved forecasts and revised forecasts for the year are produced four times a year.
The Groups internal control procedures described in this section have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures.
The Group has board representation on each of its joint venture companies where separate systems of internal control have been adopted.
Alan Mitchelson Secretary Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 9 March 2010
