CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose how they have applied, and complied with, the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
For the 12 months to 31 December 2009, the Company has complied fully with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code, except provision A.
3.2 which states that at least half the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Gordon Chapman, our CEO fell ill in August and has not yet returned to work.
Alasdair MacDonald was appointed to the Board as an executive director and as Acting CEO in September.
With the appointment of Alasdair MacDonald as an executive director, there are five executive directors excluding the Chairman on the Board and four non-executive directors.
THE BOARD Board composition and independence At the date of this report, the Board of Wellstream Holdings PLC consists of the Chairman, five executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and each has clearly defined responsibilities.
The Chairmans appointment was renewed on a rolling 12 month basis from May 2010 and is expected to continue for a further three years.
Further details are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Chairmans main role is to lead the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: a process that is reviewed annually.
Regular presentations are made to the Board on all aspects of the business including Strategy, Health and Safety, R&D, Technology and Risk.
The Chairman also ensures that the Company maintains clear communication with shareholders, facilitates the effective contribution of non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
The Chairman regularly meets the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The Chairman normally devotes two days a week to the business of the Company paying particular attention to assisting in framing and developing strategy and ensuring its implementation.
This time commitment has increased since the absence of the CEO Gordon Chapman.
Following its annual review, the Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Chairman is able to dedicate significant time to the business and that there has been no significant change in the level of his commitments since the last review.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing Company strategy and managing the Company.
This function is currently carried out by the Acting CEO Alasdair MacDonald who has assumed all the functions of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board aims to embody an appropriate balance of skills and experience to support the Companys strategy and performance and has consequently appointed experienced non-executive directors who bring to the Company a wealth of skills and knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
Two new directors were appointed in the year.
Luis Araujo, head of our Brazil business was appointed to the Board in March 2009.
The second appointment was Alasdair MacDonald in September 2009 who assumed the role of Acting CEO.
Francisco Gros, a non-executive director, was on sick leave between June and September and was unable to attend some meetings of the Board.
His role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was assumed by Sir Graham Hearne during his period of recuperation however he was able to attend all 6 Committee meetings.
It is the role of the Nomination Committee to consider the appropriate balance and composition of the Board in terms of its skill set, industry experience and diversity.
It is the combination of these skills that provide the Board with the knowhow and judgement effectively to manage risk and execution of business strategy on behalf of our shareholders.
This is kept under regular review.
Wellstreams executive directors are drawn predominantly from across the subsea and oilfield services sector.
Over a career spanning thirty years, Chairman John Kennedy is well known in the industry, and has global experience in operations, and merger & acquisitions together with strong city connections.
Alasdair MacDonald, our Acting CEO has a 20 year background in subsea operations management and business development and has an in-depth knowledge of the competitor landscape having held a number of senior roles within the subsea oil and gas sector.
Luis Araujo combines substantial knowledge of operational matters together with a deep understanding of our customer base and opportunities in Brazil.
Chris Braithwaite has previously worked in a number of senior operations and project management roles within both engineering & construction and oilfield technology companies.
Finally, Chris Gill, Finance Director has 20 years multi-industry finance experience at a senior level including companies outside of the oil and gas sector.
Our non-executive directors are also drawn largely from the oil and gas industry and oilfield services industries.
Sir Graham Hearne is the former Chairman and Chief Executive of Enterprise Oil.
Pat Murray is former CEO of Dresser, Inc, the energy infrastructure and oilfield services company.
Neil Gaskell was former treasurer of Royal Dutch Shell and Francisco Gros was Governor of Brazils Central Bank and CEO of Petrobras and is Vice Chairman of OGX, the largest Brazilian private sector oil and natural gas company.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The letters of engagement for Neil Gaskell, Sir Graham Hearne, Pat Murray and Francisco Gros will be reviewed prior to their expiry of the initial fixed three year term in May 2010.
All of the non-executive directors, Neil Gaskell, Francisco Gros, Sir Graham Hearne and Pat Murray are considered to be independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of these directors.
Sir Graham Hearne is recognised as the Senior Independent non-executive Director and is available to shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved through normal channels with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director.
The independent non-executive directors meet annually without the Chairman present and review the performance of the Chairman.
The non-executive directors are appointed for three year terms under letters of appointment and are entitled to a fee for their services.
They are not entitled to participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
Other than their fees, no non-executive director received remuneration from the Company during the year except for Pat Murray who received payment of US$30,000 for consultancy work regarding Brazil.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or by any person during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board has approved a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards attention.
The types of decisions taken by the Board include the approval of the Groups strategy and annual budget and financial statements, acquisitions or disposals, documents sent to the Companys shareholders, changes in capital structure, dividends and matters relating to its committees and evaluation of risk.
Operational decisions are delegated to the Companys management.
The Board holds ultimate responsibility for the management and success of the Group, developing strategy, scrutinising performance and maintaining internal controls and corporate governance.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer currently the Acting CEO.
The Acting Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for all environmental and risk matters together with all employee HR matters and external stakeholder issues.
The Chief Operating Officer is responsible for managing the operating functions of the Company.
All directors are to be appointed via the recommendation of the Nomination Committee chaired by the Senior Independent non-executive Director, Sir Graham Hearne.
Directors must retire and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years in accordance with the Articles of the Company.
All directors joining the Group benefit from a tailored induction process familiarising them with the Company and updating their existing skills based on reports to the Board, factory visits and briefings from advisers.
This training includes environmental and social issues.
Regular Board meetings are held in Brazil in addition to the UK.
Site visits are also arranged for the directors as well as receiving presentations from business unit heads.
A formal evaluation of the effectiveness during the year of the Board, board committees and of individual directors was carried out.
The results of the evaluation were reported to the Board.
The non-executive directors are available to meet shareholders through the year to discuss any concerns.
No such meetings were requested or took place during the year.
The Board holds meetings on a regular basis, at least five per year and additionally for specific purposes as and when required.
There were five formal meetings during the year together with a number of ad hoc meetings to consider specific items of a more routine nature between Board meetings.
Twenty Board meetings were held in the year to 31 December 2009.
Six meetings are scheduled in 2010.
The number of meetings of the Board and of its committees held during the year is shown opposite, together with the attendance details of each director or committee member: 48 49 Two directors, Gordon Chapman and Francisco Gros were on sick leave for part of the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings during the Board Committee Committee Committee year ended 31 December 2009 20 36 5 John Kennedy 15 N A N A 4 Gordon Chapman 13 N A N A N A Chris Braithwaite 18 N A N A N A Chris Gill 20 N A N A N A Luis Araujo appointed March 2009 12 N A N A N A Alasdair MacDonald appointed September 2009 2 N A N A N A Sir Graham Hearne 15 36 5 Francisco Gros 8 N A 6 5 Neil Gaskell 15 3 N A N A Pat Murray 15 3 6 N A COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board formally delegates certain of its responsibilities to committees by way of written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for the Boards committees are on the Companys website under Investor Relations.
Details of each committee, its membership and its terms of reference are summarised below.
Audit Committee The current members of the Committee are Neil Gaskell Chairman of the Committee, Sir Graham Hearne and Pat Murray who are all independent non-executive directors.
All members of the Committee are financially literate non-executive directors and Neil Gaskell is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Further details about the Committee are included in the Audit Committee Report on page 52.
Remuneration Committee The Committee throughout 2009 comprised Francisco Gros Chairman of the Committee, Sir Graham Hearne and Pat Murray, all independent non-executive directors.
Sir Graham Hearne assumed the temporary chairmanship of the Committee during the period of recuperation during the sick leave of Francisco Gros.
Pat Murray assumed the Chairmanship of the Committee on 15 January 2010.
The Committee met six times during the year and attendance was 100% for all members of the Committee.
Its principal activity is to review and make recommendations on the remuneration of the executive directors.
During the year the Committee approved the awards under the Groups share plans and the salary and bonus arrangements based on performance targets agreed by the Committee.
Further details about the Committee and details of the remuneration of directors are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 62.
Nomination Committee Remit The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the balance of the Boards membership, evaluating its composition, size, structure, existing skills, and experience against current and future developments of the Group.
It also identifies, reviews and proposes suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies and is responsible for succession planning.
The Committee is also responsible for the re-appointment of non-executive directors at the conclusion of their term of office and the re-election by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Membership and Governance The Committee comprises Sir Graham Hearne, Senior Independent non-executive Director and Chairman of the Committee, John Kennedy and Francisco Gros and the majority are independent non-executive directors.
The other non-executive directors and Chief Executive Officer attend periodically, by invitation only.
The Committees Terms of Reference setting out the remit delegated to it by the Board can be found on the Companys website.
Activities The Committee met five times during the course of 2009, to:- recommend the appointment of Luis Araujo and Alasdair MacDonald as directors of the Company.
Luis Araujos appointment to the Board underlines the growth and significance of Brazil to the Group.
Alasdair MacDonald, who originally joined Wellstream to oversee the Groups Corporate Development function was also recommended for appointment to the Board as Acting CEO in September, to cover the CEO Gordon Chapmans period of extended absence due to illness.
consider and propose the renewal of the Chairmans contract which is a rolling 12 month contract, expected to extend a further three years from May 2010. progress its search for non-executive directors, in order to broaden the global business experience available to the Board.
In conducting its searches, the Committee has engaged the services of external executive search providers.
progress succession planning within the business to assist in ensuring that the Group has adequate future resources.
It also conducted an evaluation of its own performance which was found to be effective.
Conflicts of Interest Under the Companies Act 2006, each director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Articles of Association approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting gave the directors authority to approve such situations in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The processes employed in 2009 were reviewed and found to be effective.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, each director declared any conflicts or potential conflicts for the consideration of the Board as a whole.
None was considered material and all other directorships held were continued to be authorised by non-conflicted directors.
Other than as disclosed in Note 31 of the financial statements, there are no related-party transactions involving the directors to report.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Group system of internal control during the year and reviewed reports received from the Audit Committee addressing the result of its review of the risk assessment process as a whole.
In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board can confirm that throughout 2009 it maintained an appropriate and effective system of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are as follows:- Indication of Business Risks Significant business risks are recorded and reported against by a senior executive who is responsible to the Board for these matters.
In identifying significant risks to which the Group is exposed the results of any relevant internal audit work and agreed mitigating action are taken into account.
Regular reviews and periodic updates with senior executives and management are carried out and the results reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
50 51 Quality and Integrity of Personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel and HR management processes are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Management Structure The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors.
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined organisation structure exists within which individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The conduct of individual businesses is delegated to the local executive management teams.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
Subject to delegated authorities, they have full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group policies and guidelines.
Internal Audit The Group has an established internal audit process.
It has an agreed programme of activities to review compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts as a service to the business by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are monitored by the Audit Committee to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Budgetary Process A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for all operating subsidiaries.
The combined budget is subject to consideration and approval by the Board.
Management information systems provide the directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor financial performance.
Investment Appraisal Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process, the Board considers proposals for research and development programmes.
Whistle Blowing Policy The Group has in place a whistle blowing policy by which concerns may be reported and investigated confidentially.
The Audit Committee reviewed the process by which the policy is brought to the attention of employees and recommended further actions to enhance its awareness together with further training to enhance anti-corruption measures.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent nonexecutive Director and other directors are available for discussion with shareholders.
All directors receive regular shareholder feedback so as to understand their issues and concerns.
CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM The Annual General Meeting is to be held on 12 May 2010 at which all directors will attend, and shareholders are encouraged to attend and to raise areas of interest or concern to directors.
Investor roadshows have been carried out to brief analysts and shareholders on the Companys activities and information is regularly posted to the website.
E communications Accompanying this report is a letter to shareholders asking how shareholders wish to receive Company communications, either electronically, via the website or in paper form.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
