AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT OVERVIEW The members of the Committee are Neil Gaskell Chairman, Pat Murray and Sir Graham Hearne.
Their biographies are given on pages 38 and 39.
All members are financially literate, independent non-executive directors, and the Board has determined that Neil Gaskell has relevant financial and audit committee experience.
The Committee met three times during the year and attendance was 100% for all members of the Committee.
The Audit Committee invites the Groups Finance Director, the Internal Auditor, and the lead partner, and other senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings.
Other senior management are invited to attend as required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee held two private meetings during the year with the external auditor without the presence of executive management.
Summary of the role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Boards oversight of: the integrity of the Groups financial statements the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements the external auditors qualifications and independence the performance of the Groups internal audit process, and of the external auditors the adequacy of the Groups financial disclosure, and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
During the year the Audit Committee has evaluated and reported to the Board about the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices, areas of accounting judgement, the effectiveness of internal controls, the risk management process and the results of the external audit and internal audit work.
It has reviewed the Annual Financial Statements for 2008 and the unaudited interim report for the first half of 2009 and recommended formal adoption of the financial statements and reports by the Board.
The Committee oversees Internal Audit.
The Committee has approved the Audit programme for the year and reviewed all reports on the audits and other investigations undertaken by Internal Audit.
In September the Committee temporarily appointed PwC to provide an Internal Audit service during the absence of the Internal Auditor on maternity leave.
The Audit Committee manages the relationship with external auditors on behalf of the Board.
It has reviewed the external auditors independence and performance, approved the terms of their appointment, the audit plan and remuneration for 2009.
The external audit partner was replaced by rotation in 2009 after completion of the 2008 audit.
The Committee has an established policy for limiting non-audit and non-audit related services supplied by the external auditors.
It has set a target that fees for non-audit services should not normally exceed audit and audit related fees unless specifically approved by the Committee.
The audit and audit related fees for 2009 amounted to 217,000.
Non-audit fees totalled 214,000 and were related to tax compliance 148,000 and remuneration advice 66,000.
Non-audit fees have reduced by 25% over 2008 and are below the level of audit and audit related fees.
This is in line with the policy of the Committee that non-audit fees should not exceed audit and audit related fees without prior approval of the Committee.
The Committee concluded that the independence of the external auditors continues to be maintained.
The Committee has also decided that it will be reviewing the appointment of auditors to the Company.
This is good practice and recognises that Deloitte have fulfilled this role for seven years.
The Committee carried out an evaluation of its effectiveness in March which was found to be effective.
The Terms of Reference are posted to the Companys website and are kept under review.
There were no changes during the year.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Neil Gaskell Chairman of the Audit Committee 15 March 2010 52 53
