6 Directors Report and Accounts Corporate governance report and membership of the Board, making The Company is committed to high would be reported to the Audit recommendations to the Board, which standards of corporate governance.
Committee and brought to the attention are subsequently considered and In this report Simon Barratt, General of the Chief Executive and General ultimately voted on by shareholders.
Counsel, explains how the main and Counsel.
supporting principles of the Combined The Board is of the opinion that it is of Code on Corporate Governance are Where can I fi nd details of the an appropriate size for the requirements being applied.
Companys compliance with the of the business, it has the appropriate Combined Code in relation to balance of skills, knowledge and Has the Company formally reviewed remuneration?
experience and that it has a good its corporate governance performance Details of how Whitbread has applied balance between executive and during the year?
the main and supporting principles independent non-executive directors.
The General Counsel produced a review of the Combined Code with regard of the Companys corporate governance to remuneration can be found in the Is there clarity between the roles of procedures, which was considered by remuneration report on pages 10 to 18. the Chairman and Chief Executive?
The aim of In addition, the table on page 9 contains There is a clear written division of the review was to consider whether the details of the membership and activities responsibility between the Chairman Company was in compliance with the of the Remuneration Committee.
2006 Combined Code at the date of the review.
The Board agreed that the Who is on the Companys Board of The Chairman is responsible for: Company was in compliance with the directors?
running the Board and setting its Code at the date of the review, with one The Board currently consists of the agenda: exception as outlined below.
Chairman, three executive directors and ensuring, through the General Counsel, fi five independent non-executive directors, that the members of the Board receive Has the Company complied one of whom has been appointed Senior accurate, timely and clear information throughout the year with the Independent Director.
Biographies of and that there is a good fl ow of provisions of the Combined Code?
each director can be found on page 21 information: The Company has complied throughout of the Annual Review.
managing the Board to ensure that the year with the provisions set out in suffi cient time is allowed for the Section 1 of the Combined Code with How did the Company arrive at the discussion of complex or contentious the following exception: conclusion that fi five of its directors are issues: independent?
ensuring that the directors update their Whitbread did not have a Senior The Combined Code lists a number knowledge and capabilities: Independent Director for the period of circumstances that might call the ensuring that the members of the Board between Rod Kents resignation and independence of a director into question.
develop an understanding of the views Stephen Williams appointment to that The Board is satisfi ed that no such of the major investors: and role A3.3.
circumstances exist for any of the the annual evaluation of the Companys non-executive directors.
performance of the Board and its This gap between 1 April 2008 and committees and implementing 30 September 2008 was whilst the What are the terms of appointment for the action required following such Nomination Committee process for independent non-executive directors?
Independent non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year term The Chief Executive is responsible for: How does the Company seek to and may, under normal circumstances, setting the strategic direction for the ensure that its employees behave with serve up to three such three-year terms.
Before appointment, all non-executive overseeing the day-to-day The Company takes the view that directors disclose to the Board other management of the Company: corporate governance is not a matter for signifi cant commitments.
Their letters of appointment are available for inspection the line management of senior the Board or its committees alone and at the Companys registered offi ce.
executives, including the other has developed a Code of Conduct for executive directors of the Company and employees.
This covers dealings with How is the structure and membership the Executive Committee members: customers, suppliers and government of the Board determined?
the activities of the Whitbread offi cials: safeguarding the Companys Ultimately the Companys shareholders Directors Forum a group of over assets: keeping accurate and reliable determine Board membership at the 30 of the Companys most senior records: and avoiding confl icts of interest.
All new directors are required to executives: and Its principal message is that all employees stand for election at the AGM following ensuring effective communication with must observe a code of conduct based on their appointment and existing directors shareholders and employees.
honesty, integrity and fair dealing.
must stand for re-election by rotation in accordance with the Articles of How does the Board operate and what In addition the Company has a formal Association.
Under the policy The Board holds meetings regularly and, employees are able to speak to an The Nomination Committee is additionally, for specifi c purposes, as independent organisation and any responsible for reviewing the structure and when required.
During the year there signifi cant fi financial or control issues www.
co. uk annualreport0809 7 were 10 Board meetings.
Before each Audit Nomination Remuneration Board meeting directors are given timely Board Committee Committee Committee and appropriate information, including Number of meetings in the year 10 3 3 4 monthly financial and trading reports.
The attendance records of individual directors Anthony Habgood 10 3 4 can be found in the table on the right.
Alan Parker 10 3 1 Patrick Dempsey 2 All members of the Board take collective Christopher Rogers 10 responsibility for the performance of Wendy Becker 9 3 4 the Company and all decisions are Philip Clarke 8 3 taken objectively in the interests of the Charles Gurassa 10 3 3 4 Company and its shareholders.
Simon Melliss 10 3 2 Stephen Williams 7 1 2 The Board has responsibility for ensuring 3 Rod Kent that the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met and oversees Anthony Habgood, Alan Parker and Christopher Rogers all attended Audit Committee meetings although they and approves the Companys strategy, are not members of that committee.
Alan Parker attended Remuneration Committee meetings except when ensuring that the necessary resources his own remuneration was being discussed, but is not a member of the Remuneration Committee.
are in place in order to meet objectives.
1 Patrick Dempsey was appointed as a director on 1 January 2009.
Two Board meetings were held after that date.
2 Stephen Williams was appointed as a director on 27 April 2008.
Eight Board meetings, two Remuneration The specific responsibilities of the Board Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting were held after that date.
are set out in a schedule of matters 3 Rod Kent resigned as a director on 31 March 2008.
One Board meeting, one Audit Committee meeting and reserved to the Board, which can be seen one Remuneration Committee meeting were held up to that date.
in full on the Companys website www.
co. uk, and includes: Do the members of the Audit How does the Company ensure that Committee have recent and relevant new directors are given the tools to oversight of key aspects of strategy financial experience?
and management: The Board is satisfied that at least one The Chairman, through the General financial reporting and controls: member of the Audit Committee has Counsel is responsible for ensuring management of shareholder recent and relevant financial experience.
that, on appointment, new directors are communication: and given a formal and individually tailored approval of policies and major How is the Boards performance induction.
In the case of newly appointed transactions.
non-executive directors this would During the year the performance of typically include a number of visits to the In addition, the Executive Committee the Board, and individual directors Companys outlets to enable a thorough meets prior to each Board meeting and contributions to the Board, are appraised understanding of the businesses.
New the WHR and Costa Management Boards by the Chairman.
This year: directors are available to meet major meet on a monthly basis.
Details of the shareholders if requested.
membership of these groups can be each director completed a formal found on page 9. questionnaire on the Boards Do the directors have access to performance: independent advice?
What committees does the Board the Chairman met or spoke to each All directors have access to independent have?
director on a one-to-one basis: professional advice at the Companys The table on page 9 contains information the results of the review were expense.
All directors also have access relating to the Audit Committee, discussed by the Board and an to the advice and services of the General the Nomination Committee and appropriate action plan was agreed.
Counsel, who is responsible for ensuring the Remuneration Committee.
The Board procedures are complied with, and committees operate within defined The performance of the Boards compliance with applicable rules and terms of reference, copies of which committees was reviewed during the regulations.
can be found on the Companys website: year in line with their terms of reference.
Do the directors update their The performance of the Chairman is knowledge and skills on a In addition to these three committees evaluated during the year by the Senior regular basis?
the Board has delegated authority to the Independent Director who discusses the During the year directors attended General Purposes Committee to deal Chairmans performance with each of training courses and seminars, or with business of a routine nature and the directors.
received tailored training, on a number other specific matters delegated to it by of relevant issues, including: the Board.
This committee is made up of company law: at least two directors designated by the fraud: Board and meets as required.
board leadership: board structures: and advanced management.
co. uk annualreport0809 8 Directors Report and Accounts Corporate governance report continued the production by each business of The Board receives a regular investor private shareholders, with the Directors a risks and controls matrix, covering relations report which includes share price Report and Accounts, Annual Review and major risks and plans to mitigate those performance, movements in institutional Summary Report, trading statements, risks.
These matrices are considered by holdings and the response by institutions interim management statements and the Audit Committee: to the communications programme.
public announcements all being available a regular review by the Board of at www.
changes in the major risks facing the What is the Companys fi financial Group and development of appropriate reporting policy?
Private shareholders have the opportunity action plans: The Board always strives to present to put questions to the Board at the Annual the consideration of risks and the a balanced and understandable General Meeting and at all other times appropriate action plans, when assessment of the Companys position by emailing or writing to the Company.
appraising and approving all major and prospects.
This involves formal Wherever possible, all directors attend the capital and revenue projects and change reports such as this, other price sensitive AGM.
The Company, through its registrars, programmes.
A post completion review public reports, reports to regulators and counts all proxy votes and displays the of major capital expenditure any other information required by statute.
results on the screen at the AGM following is undertaken: a show of hands.
In addition the results fi financial policies, controls and How does the Board interact with the are disclosed on the Companys website procedures manuals, which are Companys shareholders?
following the meeting, and announced by regularly reviewed and updated: The Company recognises the importance regulatory news service.
the limits of authority, which are of dialogue with both institutional and prescribed for employees.
In addition any shareholder may contact appropriate segregation of tasks: the Chairman or, if appropriate, the Senior the Code of Conduct, which is Institutional shareholders, fund managers Independent Director to raise any issue, communicated to employees: and analysts are briefed at regular meetings including those relating to strategy and the PWC operational audit team activity, and presentations.
Following the full year governance.
Alternatively, shareholders may which reports on the effectiveness of and interim results in April and October raise any such issue with one or all of the operational and fi financial controls across respectively, the Chief Executive and non-executive directors of the Company.
the Group: the Finance Director have meetings with The General Counsel can facilitate any such the Audit Committee regularly reviews institutional investors.
A large number communication if requested.
the major fi findings from both operational of investors attended an investor day and external audit.
Further details can presentation that was held during the year.
Does the Company maintain adequate be found in the table on page 9.
This meeting was also attended by the systems of internal control?
Presentations were made by The Board is responsible for the Groups The Board, acting through the Audit the Chief Executive, Finance Director and systems of internal control and risk Committee, has directed the work of Managing Directors of the businesses.
At management, and for reviewing their PWCs operational audit team towards the annual Board Strategy meeting, reports effectiveness.
These systems are those areas of the business that are were presented which described the views designed to manage rather than eliminate considered to be of the highest risk.
of major shareholders of the Company and the risk of failure to achieve business The Committee approves a rolling audit its current strategy.
It is therefore believed objectives.
They can only provide programme, ensuring that all signifi cant that the Senior Independent Director, and reasonable, and not absolute, assurance areas of the business are independently the other members of the Board, have an against material misstatement or loss.
reviewed within at least a three-year adequate understanding of the issues and period.
The programme and fi findings of concerns of major shareholders.
During The Board has established an ongoing the reviews are continually assessed to the year no meetings were requested by process for identifying, evaluating and ensure they take account of the latest shareholders with the Chairman or Senior managing the Groups signifi cant risks.
information and, in particular, the results of Independent Director.
This process was in place throughout the the annual review of internal controls.
The 2008 09 fi financial year and up to the date of this report.
The process is regularly effectiveness of the operational audit team Recently the main topic of interest to reviewed by the Board and accords with is reviewed annually by the Committee.
investors has been the response of the internal control guidance for directors The Committee considers the principal the Companys businesses to current in the Combined Code.
A report of the risks identifi ed by the risk management economic conditions.
key risks can be found on pages 4 and 5. process which are also considered by the main and management boards throughout Annual and interim results presentations Key elements of the Groups risk the year.
are webcast live so that all shareholders management and internal control can receive the same information at system include: the same time.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions the formulation, evaluation and annual in the Companies Act 2006, which approval by the Board of business plans allows communication to be made and budgets.
Actual results are reported to shareholders electronically unless monthly against budget and the previous Simon Barratt they have requested hard copy years fi gures.
Key risks are identifi ed General Counsel documentation.
The Companys website and action plans prepared accordingly: 27 April 2009 provides comprehensive information for www.
co. uk annualreport0809 9 Board committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Simon Melliss Chairman Anthony Habgood Chairman Charles Gurassa Chairman Members of Wendy Becker Charles Gurassa Wendy Becker Committee Charles Gurassa Alan Parker Philip Clarke Stephen Williams Anthony Habgood Stephen Williams approval of financial the appropriate composition remuneration of the Summary of key statements for the full of the Board: executive directors issues addressed and half year: the appointment of Stephen and the Chairman: during the year Group and brand internal Williams to the Board: major review and approval controls and risk the appointment of of executive incentive management: Stephen Williams as Senior schemes: and review of the effectiveness Independent Director: and monitoring of remuneration of the internal and external the appointment of Patrick of other senior executives.
audit functions: Dempsey to the Board.
auditors independence: and operational audit plans and outcome of reviews.
The terms of reference of all three committees were reviewed during the year and can be found on the Companys website.
They are also available by requesting a copy in writing from the General Counsel.
Membership of the Executive Committee and management boards Executive Committee WHR Management Board Costa Management Board Executive Alan Parker Mark Anderson Clive Bentley Committee and Simon Barratt Colin Elliot Russell Fairhurst management Patrick Dempsey Paul Flaum Helen Hardy board members John Derkach Maria Horn Adrian Johnson Christopher Rogers Andrew Pellington Andrew Marshall Louise Smalley Gerard Tempest Matthew Price Ben Wishart Jim Slater The members of the Executive Committee are also members of both management boards, although John Derkach is not a member of the WHR Management Board and Patrick Dempsey is not a member of the Costa Management Board.
Number of 10 11 11 meetings per year www.
