Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 95 Investor relations and financial calendar Annual General Meeting b Carbon offset The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 4 June 2009 at The Annual report and financial statements, the Annual review and Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Head Office, Gain Lane, Bradford, summary financial statement and the Corporate social responsibility BD3 7DL.
A separate notice convening the meeting is sent to report have been assessed with the assistance of the Carbon Trust shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of special for the amount of carbon emissions that will be generated in their business to be considered at the meeting.
To offset these carbon emissions a donation has been made to PURE, The Clean Planet Trust, the first Dividend Reinvestment Plan UK registered charity dedicated to combating climate change by The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows offsetting.
More information about PURE can be found on their shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys website, www.
uk shares bought in the market through a specifically arranged share dealing service.
Full details of the plan and its charges, together with mandate forms, are available from the Registrars.
Morrisons website Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, www.
co. uk to obtain information on company history, c Recycled paper stores and services, latest offers, press information and a local This document has been printed by MPG on recycled paper that is store finder.
manufactured in mills with ISO 14001 accreditation from 100% recycled fibre.
It is totally chlorine free and is a NAPM certified Share price information recycled product.
The Investor Information section of our website provides our current and historical share price data and other share price tools.
d Photography Share price information can also be found in the financial press All people featured were either customers, colleagues or suppliers.
and the Cityline service operated by the Financial Times Permission to publish these photographs was received from each telephone 0906 843 3545. individual.
Where minors appear, parental approval was granted.
Online reports and accounts e Design Our Annual and Interim Group financial statements are available The Annual report and financial statements, the Annual review and to download from the website along with Corporate Social summary financial statement in both paper and HTML format, and Responsibility reports and other financial announcements.
The the Corporate social responsibility report were designed and 2009 Annual report is also available to view in html format at produced by Likemind 0207 855 5888. www.
The information in the Further information about other ways in which the Group is Annual report and financial statements, Annual review and summary helping with environmental change can be found in the Corporate financial statement and the Interim reports are exactly the same as social responsibility report 2008 09 which can be viewed on the in the printed version.
Environmental matters The effect of our business on the environment is something that Morrisons takes very seriously.
In the production of the 2009 Financial calendar 2009 10 Annual report and financial statements, we have contributed to Financial events and dividends the reduction in environmental damage in the following ways: Final dividend record date 08 05 09 Annual General Meeting 04 06 09 a Website Quarterly management statement 04 06 09 Shareholders receive notification of the availability of the results Final dividend payment date 10 06 09 to view on the Groups website, www.
co. uk, unless Half year end 02 08 09 they have elected to receive a printed version of the results.
Interim results announcement 10 09 09 The full Annual report is available for viewing or downloading Interim dividend record date 02 10 09 from the corporate website www.
co. uk Interim dividend payment date 09 11 09 Shareholders are encouraged to view the report on the website Quarterly management statement 19 11 09 which is exactly the same as the printed version, but using the Financial year end 31 01 10 internet has clear advantages such as lowering costs and reducing Preliminary results announcement 11 03 10 the environmental impact.
96 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Investor relations and financial calendar continued Company Secretary Solicitors Greg McMahon appointed 16 March 2009 Gordons LLP Riverside West, Whitehall Road Registered office Leeds, LS1 4AW Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House Ashurst Gain Lane Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street Bradford London, EC2A 2HA BD3 7DL Wragge & Co LLP Telephone: 0845 611 5000 55 Colmore Row www.
co. uk Birmingham, B3 2AS Investor Relations Auditors Telephone: 0845 611 5710 KPMG Audit Plc Email: accinvr@morrisonsplc.
co. uk 1 The Embankment, Neville Street Corporate Social Responsibility enquiries Leeds, LS1 4DW Telephone: 0845 611 5000 Stockbrokers Registrars and Shareholding enquiries RBS Hoare Govett Limited Administrative enquiries about the holding of Morrisons shares, 250 Bishopsgate such as change of address, change of ownership, dividend payments London, EC2M 4AA and the Dividend Reinvestment Plan should be directed to: Merrill Lynch Capita Registrars Merrill Lynch Financial Centre Northern House 2 King Edward Street Woodsome Park London, EC1A 1HQ Fenay Bridge Investment Bankers Huddersfield NM Rothschild & Sons Limited HD8 0GA New Court, 1 St. Swithins Lane Telephone: 0871 664 0300 Overseas: 44 208 639 3399 London, EC4P 4DU Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
com Information at your fingertips www.
co. uk Consumer Corporate This area of our website allows you to learn more about Work with Morrisons Morrisons and our offering.
Career opportunities and information about working for Morrisons.
For our dedicated recruitment website go to Offers www.
com Latest promotions Specific product offerings Press Office Competitions Latest releases about the growing estate of Morrisons, along Press releases marketing with promotions and product news.
Market Street Investors More about our unique in-store offering, along with video User-friendly presentations of where our food comes from and how to buy, Presentations, announcements and financial reports can be cook and present it.
quickly and easily downloaded or viewed on-screen as pdfs.
You can easily navigate around the Annual report and financial Food statements 2009 on-screen, viewing only the parts you want to.
Information about our ranges, healthy eating and more mouthwww.
Webcasts Drink Webcasts of the Directors delivering the preliminary results Information on how and what to buy, where our wines come 2009 on 12 March are available.
from and, yes, more recipes.
Shareholder information Family life Other relevant shareholder information is available, like share From entertainments to bringing up baby and looking after your price history, financial calendar and AGM minutes.
Including gardening tips and even how to track where your eggs come from.
Electronic communications Electronic communications eComms is the fastest and Fresh food most environmentally friendly way to communicate with Giving details of seasonal food and how and what to buy.
Lets Grow Instead of receiving paper copies of the annual and interim Information about our Lets Grow scheme, including how financial results, notices of shareholder meetings and other to register, facts, how it works and teaching resources.
shareholder documents, you will receive an email to let you Seasonal know this information is available on our website.
Guide on what to buy for, say, Easter, Christmas and those other Visiting our website to obtain our results reduces our special times of year.
environmental impact by saving on paper and also reduces our print and distribution costs.
Today Sign up to eComms on our website at Here you can find out about our Corporate and Social www.
co. uk corporate investors Responsibility ethos, including how we take good care of and follow the investor eComms link.
our environment, society and how we go about business.
co. uk today About Morrisons You will find information about the Group, its operations, its strategy and structure, and past financial information.
This report is 100% recyclable Recycled paper This document has been printed on recycled paper that is manufactured in mills with ISO 14001 accreditation from 100% recycled fibre.
It is totally chlorine free and is NAPM Designed and produced by Likemind certified recycled product.
com Annual review 2009 Food specialist for everyone Welcome to Morrisons We are the UKs fourth largest food retailer by sales with an annual turnover in excess of 14bn.
We have 382 stores, visited by 10 million customers each week and served by 124,000 employees.
What makes us different from other supermarkets is Market Street our own supply chain, our own manufacturing sites and Market Street is a unique shopping Market Street.
experience and is central to the Morrisons fresh food offer.
It contains We make and pack our produce a number of different areas, where all Fresh produce is washed, graded and packed in our own packing facilities.
our fresh food is stocked, prepared and We have three bakeries producing six million loaves, rolls and muffins each served by our staff, giving the feel and week.
We own abattoirs and supply meat to the stores, where it is cut service of a traditional market.
Our in-store by trained butchers.
We make fresh meat products like pies, staff know their trade, and we have burgers and sausage rolls in our meat processing plant.
more craft skilled staff than any other supermarket.
We supply direct to stores See page 16 for more on Market Street We have 12 distribution centres and our own transport fleet working around the clock to deliver the freshest food to our stores.
See page 14 for more on our business model Our Vision to become the Food Specialist for Everyone Our fresh food production, delivery and in-store preparation gives us control over cost, quality and freshness.
Bring this together with our great prices and great shopkeeping skills and our vision is clear.
Food specialist, because our expertise helps us deliver fresher food than anyone else: For everyone, because our great food is also great value.
Our vision is realised through three brand values: Fresh, Value and Service.
See pages 8 to 13 for more on our brand values Fresh Value Service www.
co. uk annualreview09 1 Financial highlights Contents 14.5bn 7.9% 2 Chairmans message Sir Ian Gibson makes his first Group turnover Like-for-like sales annual statement as Chairman.
ex-fuel 2008: 13bn 12% 3 Chief Executives review 2008: 4.6% Marc Bolland explains the success of the last financial year.
7 Meet the Board Read our Executive and Non- 636m 678m Executive Directors biographies.
Underlying profit Capital expenditure Our strategy explained 2008: 563m 13% 2008: 402m 276m 8 Fresh Our commitment to quality fresh food is one of our strengths.
10 Value 642m 5.8p What we are doing to provide great Net debt Total dividend value for our customers.
2008: 543m 99m 2008: 4.8p 21% 12 Service Read about the awards we have won this year and other examples of great service.
Our business model 14 Our business model This section shows how our business model makes us unique from other supermarkets.
16 Market Street Meet the food experts who work in Market Street.
Summary financial Go online at statement www.
co. uk 18 Summary Directors report What youll find online 18 Summary corporate As a shareholder who has asked for printed shareholder and governanace report financial information, we know that you take your investment 19 Summary Directors seriously.
You can also get lots of consumer and shareholder remuneration report information from our website.
Our website contains a corporate section with lots of 22 Auditors statement information that, as a shareholder, you may find useful.
23 Summary financial Presentations, announcements and financial reports can be statement quickly and easily downloaded or viewed on-screen as pdfs.
You will find the full Annual report and financial statements 25 Investor information 2009 at www.
co. uk annualreport09 which is easy to navigate and you can view only the parts you want.
2 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Chairmans message Sir Ian Gibson In my first annual statement as Chairman, I am pleased that we are reporting another year of good progress for Morrisons.
These are challenging times for the UK economy, but whilst we are not complacent, we are confident that Morrisons offer meets and is in tune with the demands of our customers and the economic background.
Results Profit before tax was 655m compared with 612m last year.
This included 2m of property gains, compared with 32m last year.
Underlying basic earnings per share EPS increased by 16% to 16.7p, whilst statutory basic EPS decreased by 16% due to an abnormally low tax charge last year.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.0p per share, to bring the total for the year to 5.8p an increase of 21%.
At this level, the dividend is covered 2.9 times, and we will continue our progressive policy of increasing the dividend by underlying earnings and additionally moving dividend cover toward the average for our sector, which is around 2.5 times, by January 2010.
Cash generation was strong with cash from operations of 964m, a year-on-year This was another year of good increase of 208m, or 28%.
The Groups pace of investment picked up, with capital progress for Morrisons as we expenditure in the year increasing to 678m following the opening of nine new continued to grow sales, stores and the acquisition of the freehold of our new distribution centre at Sittingbourne, in Kent.
Additionally, we completed the planned second instalment profits and dividends, whilst payment into our defined benefit pension schemes of 100m and bought back also investing to generate 58 million shares in the market for 146m, an average share price of 251p.
these investments, net debt increased from 543m to 642m.
As previously reported, new five year term debt facilities of 1.1bn were agreed in September 2007, and only 250m of this facility was drawn at the year end, leaving gearing at 14%.
Industry recognition Morrisons success in the past year has been recognised with numerous industry awards, including Retailer of the Year from Retail Week, The Grocer of the Year from The Grocer and Supermarket of the Year at the Retail Industry Awards.
This is welcome recognition of the terrific efforts of all our 124,000 employees, and on behalf of the Board I want to express our thanks for their dedication, hard work and professionalism.
I am pleased that our growth in the year will provide a profit share pool for them of 34m, a 13% increase on the previous year.
Charitable donations Our colleagues across the business are always enthusiastic supporters of our charitable activities.
Our own nominated charity of the year was Protecting Generations for Generations, a partnership between Help the Aged and Childline, and we were delighted to support them with funding of over 930,000 during the year.
Outlook Your Board views both the short and the long term outlook for Morrisons positively.
The business is well on track to achieve its goal of being the food specialist for everyone, and the Executive team continues to see opportunities to invest in the business for further growth.
We expect to open c. 350,000 square feet of new retail space in the coming year, on top of c. 500,000 square feet that we have agreed to acquire from the Co-operative Group, reflecting our confidence in the attractions of Morrisons core grocery business.
In the current economic environment we expect the competitive landscape to be extremely challenging.
However, the Groups balance sheet is strong, and our financing arrangements are prudent.
We will remain focused on delivering freshness and value to our customers.
co. uk annualreview09 3 Chief Executives review Marc Bolland Strategy update Our three year strategy is to position the business as the UKs food specialist for everyone.
This builds on our historic strengths of value and fresh food quality, now applied to a national, bigger business following the Safeway acquisition in 2004.
As a food specialist, we are clearly differentiated from our larger competitors, all of whom are seeking to expand their non-food credentials.
We also emphasise our deep understanding of food: through being closer to source than other retailers, through our unique manufacturing and packing facilities, through the amount of food preparation undertaken in our stores and through the employment of more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers than our competitors.
We stress that our offer is for everyone, because our great food is also always great value.
Our strategy builds on our strengths, and is in tune with our customers need for excellent value and their increasing focus on the health, provenance, quality and freshness of the food they buy.
In order to deliver our strategy, we have previously outlined the building blocks that need to be put in place, and our plans to do this by 2010.
These are described in the Optimisation Plan progress section below.
Our focus on fresh food and Store estate development From our position as the fourth largest grocery retailer in the UK, we see significant value appeals to shoppers opportunities to expand our store estate.
Our offer works well in a wide range of everywhere and provides store sizes, giving us flexibility in site selection and there are many parts of the a strong platform to take country where we remain under-represented.
A key part of our strategy, therefore, Morrisons from national has been to grow the number of Morrisons stores.
Our acquisition of Co-operative to nationwide.
Somerfield stores, completing in the coming year, will contribute to this, and we are confident that we will open a further 0.5m square feet of retail space in the year to January 2011.
Solid shareholder investment and returns The Group is securely financed and has a strong balance sheet.
We are confident that our planned investment requirements can be met from existing facilities.
We will continue to pursue a prudent approach to financial management which is based on a number of principles: we wish to maintain a strong investment grade balance sheet: operational control of our retail stores is fundamental to us: we are a prudent organisation and we structure our finances accordingly: and our defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities are effectively part of our balance sheet, and should be managed as such.
The Board concluded in March 2008 that surplus capital of 1bn should be returned to shareholders during 2008 and 2009, with 500m of that to be delivered in the first 12 months of the programme.
Whilst 146m was returned in 2008 through share buybacks, the Board also identified new investment opportunities for the Group, over and above our original plans.
The Board believes these growth opportunities represent a more attractive deployment of capital than the planned share buyback.
The Board also believes that further investment opportunities may arise in the medium term and has therefore decided that the capital originally earmarked for share buybacks in the 2009 10 financial year should be retained within the business to give Morrisons maximum financial flexibility.
We have targeted progressive dividend growth in 2008 and 2009, over and above earnings growth, in order to bring dividend cover to a level in line with the average for our sector, which is around 2.5 times, by January 2010.
Funding for this enhanced return to shareholders will come from operating cash flow and committed facilities which are available to the Group.
4 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Chief Executives review continued Operating review of the year Key Performance Indicators 2008 09 was another good year for Morrisons we made sure that we offered our customers great value every day, in a rapidly deteriorating economy, whilst still Like-for-like sales investing for the long term future of the business.
ex-fuel New retail space We opened nine new stores in the year, of which two were former Co-operative % Somerfield stores that we acquired and converted to Morrisons.
We saw very 7.9 significant uplifts in sales compared to those achieved under their former ownerships, and as a result we were pleased, later in the year, to agree the acquisition of a further % tranche of stores from the Co-operative Somerfield that we will open in 2009 10.
7.9 We continued our programme of store extensions, with 90,000 square feet added in the year, and ended the year with 382 stores and a total of 11.1m square feet of retail space, growth of 2.7% on the start of the year.
5.2 4.6 Sales and market share growth We were pleased with our stores sales growth, which was industry leading and broad based.
Like-for-like sales, the measure of growth in existing stores, increased by 7.9% with customer numbers up 4.2% and average basket spend up 3.6%.
Based on TNS market research data, we believe our grocery market share grew from 12.1% to 12.3% in the year.
Geographically, we grew in all regions, with the South particularly strong as the Morrisons brand continued to become better known.
2007 2008 2009 Across our store estate, we grew in all sizes of stores, with smaller stores below Like-for-like sales is the measure 25,000 square feet leading the way.
Our market research shows that we won of growth in existing stores.
customers from all major competitors in the year.
Source: internal In-store, our Market Street ranges did well, responding to our strong emphasis on fresh food preparation.
We continued to profile our unique food production capabilities, in our factories and in Market Street, and our understanding of food provenance.
Our broad appeal and community involvement was well illustrated by our new schools initiative, Lets Grow, which is designed to help schools teach children how to grow food.
Industry leading offer The Value range saw 50% growth, more of our promotions into half price reflecting the very difficult economic rather than buy one, get one free in environment experienced by consumers response to customers need to spend throughout the year.
We helped customers maintained our focus on the quality, to treat themselves too, with great healthiness and provenance of our food, value deals such as 2 for 1 offers on party we also delivered a year of innovative foods, the Mamma Mia DVD for 7 and a value offers to our customers.
We range of games for Nintendo Wii at 10. launched over 21,000 price cuts In the run-up to Christmas, we rewarded throughout the year, and designed our our most loyal customers with a 20 promotions to help customers save money shopping voucher through the Collector while eating well.
Our 4 meal deals Card scheme.
proved very popular, and we switched www.
co. uk annualreview09 5 Operating results Key Performance Indicators Turnover grew by 1.5bn to 14.5bn, a 12% increase.
Part of this increase c. 3% was due to the very high prices of fuel seen in our forecourts business in the year UK grocery market share caused by the worldwide spike in oil prices, and this will unwind again in the coming year as pump prices have come back down.
Our forecourts business grew strongly in the year.
As fuel prices moved above 1 per litre, consumers became highly price conscious and shopped around for value.
We made sure that our pricing was always % highly competitive, and indeed led the market back down below the key 1 price 12.3 point when oil prices again began to fall.
% Gross profit grew in line with the level of turnover growth.
The gross profit margin 12.3 12.1 11.9 of 6.3% was level with the previous year, although lower than it would have been due to the dilutive effect of high fuel sales, which have a very low margin.
Offsetting this was the release of a provision first taken in 2005 06 relating to the rationalisation of our distribution infrastructure.
Adjusting for these two effects, our gross profit increased by 0.1% despite the headwind effect of high energy costs in our stores and supply chain.
We successfully mitigated these costs through continued delivery of our Optimisation Plan.
The Groups two biggest costs, after cost of goods sold, are store wages and distribution costs.
After a number of years of strong improvement in store labour productivity, the year under review saw us investing in customer service to support 2007 2008 2009 our sales growth.
Despite this, labour costs as a proportion of sales improved by 0.5%.
The cost to deliver each case through our distribution network continued to fall, We have increased our 52 week UK grocery despite higher fuel costs, with a further reduction of 2.5% year-on-year.
We gained market share with good performance across good benefits from new systems that improved the efficiency of our delivery schedules.
the whole country and particularly strong Our administrative expenses were up by 5%, below the rate of the turnover increase, growth in the South.
reflecting tight control of our overheads.
Marketing costs, which account for over Source: TNS one-third of administrative expenses, increased in line with turnover, as we continued to seek, with success, to articulate the Morrisons story to a wider audience.
Our advertising campaigns built on the previous years success, with a continuation of the Fresh Choice for You message placing emphasis on freshness, in-store production, in-season food and our food provenance knowledge.
To balance the Fresh message, we launched a high impact Price Crunch campaign in April, which ran through the rest of the year and was used to highlight our great value offers and everyday prices.
Optimisation Plan progress Our Optimisation Plan, originally communicated in 2007, set out a number of programmes designed to deliver by our financial year ending January 2010, and we remain well on track.
Progress in each of these areas is outlined below.
Refreshed and rebranded stores Customers visiting Morrisons today experience a modern and unique food specialist, following the successful completion of the programme to freshen-up our stores and brand.
The programme covered the exterior and interior signage of the stores, our Market Street counters, our trucks and our filling stations.
Alongside the physical work, all staff were fitted with uniforms carrying the new brand and over 3,000 own-brand Morrison products received new packaging.
Range extension and product innovation Our product ranges, too, have been extensively reinvigorated.
Range development has been particularly strong in Value lines but value and freshness are not incompatible, as seen in the launch of our innovative Fresh Ideas ready-to-cook fresh meals, which offer a great value alternative to dining out.
6 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Chief Executives review continued Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives Much of our investment, whilst improving technology, is well advanced.
As a result of these the business, has also improved our carbon and other initiatives, our target to reduce our emissions.
In the past two years we have carbon footprint by 36% from 2005 levels has invested 66m in new, efficient refrigeration been achieved one year early.
We are delighted capacity in our stores and 18m in new trucks to be the only grocery retailer to have been and trailers.
A similar programme to replace awarded the new Carbon Trust Standard for all our petrol pumps with new, low emission carbon reduction.
Manufacturing facilities Our control of the fresh food supply chain, through our bakeries, fruit and vegetable Our aim is to become the packing facilities, meat and cheese processing plant and abattoirs gives us great Food Specialist for Everyone, flexibility to respond to changing customer needs and priorities.
The value conscious and that means: behaviour that came to the fore in 2008 provided us with the opportunity to use this flexibility to great effect.
By being close to the source of supply, our fresh meat and Food specialist fish quality cannot be matched even by much more expensive competitors.
We really understand food: Distribution network investment we know where it comes from We continued to invest in our infrastructure as part of our Optimisation Plan.
we pack it and make it in our factories The new distribution centre at Sittingbourne, in Kent, is well underway.
We took the we make it in our stores we employ craft skills in every store opportunity to acquire the freehold of the site during the year, at a cost of 80m, in order to ensure maximum flexibility for the future.
We were pleased to open our new For everyone abattoir at Spalding during the summer of 2008, and it is already producing at high volumes and very good levels of efficiency.
Great food which is also: great value In-store efficiency initiatives and replacement of our systems for every day, not just special days.
We continue to invest in ways to improve customer service whilst also becoming more efficient in our stores.
Following a successful trial, self-scan checkouts are now rolling-out to over half our stores.
The Groups major programme of systems renewal continued to make good progress during the year.
The implementation programme began in late 2008 with the pilot We believe that delivery of phase of our new human resources and payroll system, which will go fully live during our strategy of expansion and 2009.
The coming year will see the implementation of financial systems, depot further optimisation of the systems and the start of the roll-out of the new point of sale systems into stores.
operation of the business has In 2010 we will begin to replace systems in our manufacturing facilities, throughout resulted in strongly improved the supply chain and the product masterfile.
profit margins for our Long term growth shareholders, whilst also The overall investment requirements for the Optimisation Plan, outlined last year, positioning the Group for are 450m over and above the normal run-rate of capital investment, and the long term growth.
programme will run to January 2010.
In 2008, 182m of this was invested, bringing the cumulative total to 250m.
Alongside the Optimisation Plan, our new space programme laid out a target of opening an additional 1m square feet of retail space in the three years to January 2010.
We are well on course to achieve that through our normal pipeline of new stores and store extensions but, over and above this target, the acquisition of smaller Co-operative and Somerfield stores, which will complete in 2009, will add around a further 0.5m square feet to our estate to bring the total at 31 January 2010 to approximately 12m square feet.
co. uk annualreview09 7 The full Directors biographies can be found within the Annual report and financial statements or on our Meet the Board website www.
co. uk corporate about-morrisons board-members Sir Ian Gibson Paul Manduca Chairman appointed 13 March 2008 Senior Independent Director Sir Ian Gibson aged 62 joined the Group Paul Manduca aged 57 was appointed as a as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in Non-Executive Director in September 2005.
He is also Non-Executive He became the Chair of the Audit Committee Chairman of Trinity Mirror plc.
He is also Chairman of appointments include Chairman of BPB PLC, Aon UK Limited and Henderson Diversified Deputy Chairman of Asda Group PLC, and a Income plc, and holds several Non-Executive Director of Chelys Limited, GKN PLC, Greggs Director positions for other companies.
He Plc and Northern Rock Plc.
He is also a former was the Chairman of Bridgewell Group plc member of the Court of the Bank of England.
until August 2007, when it was sold to Sir Ian enjoyed a distinguished 30-year career Landsbanki Securities UK Ltd.
He has been in the motor industry, most recently as Global CEO of Rothschild Asset Management President of Nissan Europe.
Limited and CEO of Deutsche Asset Management Europe.
Marc Bolland Chief Executive Brian Flanagan Marc Bolland aged 49 joined the Group Brian Flanagan aged 56 was appointed to in September 2006 as Chief Executive.
the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July Previously, he was Chief Operating Officer 2005.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of and Executive Board member at Heineken NV, The Financial Services Authority and is an based in the Netherlands.
He held a number advisor to Jet Environmental Systems.
of senior roles at Heineken over the last 20 Previously he worked for the Mars Corporation years, including having responsibility for the for 26 years and possesses broad international brand and marketing strategies.
He is also business experience.
He has held various currently a Non-Executive Director of senior management positions and was, most Manpower Inc in the USA.
recently, the global Vice President of Business Transformation for Mars Inc. Mark Gunter Group Retail Director Susan Murray Mark Gunter aged 50 joined the Group in 1986 as a Store General Manager.
He was Susan Murray aged 52 was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
She appointed to the Board of the Group in 2000 as Group Store Operations Director with became the Chair of the Remuneration Committee from October 2005.
Currently, additional responsibility for retail operations, retail fuel, retail projects and Company-wide she is a Non-Executive Director of Compass Group plc, Enterprise Inns plc and Imperial security.
Prior to joining Morrisons, he gained wide experience in UK food retailing, which Tobacco Group Plc.
She is a council member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
included working at Iceland, Fine Fare, Tesco, Argyll Foods and Asda.
Martyn Jones Nigel Robertson Group Trading Director Nigel Robertson aged 49 joined the Group Martyn Jones aged 50 joined the Group in as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
1990 as Trading Manager for frozen foods Working in the private equity sector, he is before being promoted to Trading Operations the Group Chief Executive of Covenant Director in 1993.
He was appointed Grocery Healthcare Ltd.
He was previously the Director in 1997 and then Senior Trading Chief Executive Officer of Chelsea Stores Director in 2002.
He was appointed to the Holdings Ltd and the Managing Director of Board as Group Trading Director in Ocado.
Prior to this he held senior positions March 2007. in Marks and Spencer Group PLC both in the UK and USA.
Richard Pennycook Group Finance Director Richard Pennycook aged 45 joined the Board as Group Finance Director in October 2005.
Prior to that, he was the Group Finance Director of RAC Plc, the quoted specialist Executive Director motoring and vehicle management company.
Non-Executive Director Previous senior roles include Group Finance Independent Director Director of H P Bulmer Holdings PLC, Laura Audit Committee Ashley Plc and J D Wetherspoon plc and Chief Nomination Committee Executive of Welcome Break Holdings plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Remuneration Committee Persimmon Plc.
8 Morrisons Annual review 2009 We have the best relationship with our suppliers The farmers who supply us tell us they appreciate the way we buy the whole crop from their fields, rather than some companies who will only buy part.
Fresh We understand our customers want the freshest food available.
We get the food we sell from the field to our stores faster and fresher than our competitors.
co. uk annualreview09 9 Morrisons fresh food offer is unique among the major supermarkets.
We care deeply about food: its provenance, its freshness, its quality and its cost.
We are closer to the source of the food we sell than any other retailer, nurturing direct relationships with farmers, and running our own factories, production facilities and distribution network.
Our unique Market Street offering features trained professionals making and preparing food throughout the day, every day.
We offer more freshly prepared food than any other retailer because we have more people preparing food in-store than any other supermarket.
Lets Grow Key Performance Indicators In September we launched our Lets Grow scheme to get children excited about growing and eating Final dividend fresh food.
The scheme helped schools capture the imagination 5.0p of children and show them that food doesnt just come from supermarkets.
It gave the children an opportunity to grow their own fruit and vegetables in the school grounds whilst providing the kids with inspiration to follow a healthier lifestyle.
Lets Grow Total dividend vouchers were collected in-store by our customers and redeemed by the schools for brand new for the year gardening equipment including seeds, spades and greenhouses.
In November, celebrity gardener Diarmuid Gavin visited schools with the help of a number of community gardeners to talk to the children about growing produce.
With over 18,000 schools taking 5.8p part in the 2008 scheme, we will continue to help educate the younger generation in our 2009 scheme.
% 21 100% committed to British At Morrisons, were passionate about supporting British farmers.
Were the Carbon footprint only top supermarket in the UK selling beef, lamb and pork that is 100% British sourced.
This year we have extended our commitment to British % farmers by ensuring that all our own-brand fresh milk is sourced locally.
down36 We have also introduced a producer group to develop closer links with dairy 2010 target 36 farmers with the aim of reducing costs for them and to help share and 2009 36 increase knowledge and understanding across our supply chain.
This year, we 2008 25 were awarded the Multiple Retailer of the Year 2008 award at the re:fresh 2007 17 Awards acknowledging our long running relationship with British producers and our efforts to source local and seasonal produce wherever possible.
We have met our target of 36% reduction of CO emissions one 2 year early.
Market Street Greengrocer Charity of the Year We want our customers to be able to buy the freshest fruit and vegetables any time they want, whether its first thing in the morning or just before the store shuts.
We achieve 1m this by keeping a consistently high standard in the produce department of Market Street.
Each year, our customers and employees choose a national charity We present our fresh fruit and vegetables in a slightly and for 2008 09 our Charity of the different way, for example, we hang up all bunches of bananas Year was a joint partnership with Help the Aged and Childline.
By to ensure they dont get bruised, and arrange melons in shies March 2009, we raised 1m through to keep them from being damaged.
The way in which the fruit collections and fund raising events.
and vegetables are presented is taken very seriously with the aim of retaining freshness.
10 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Value at home Our great value plays an essential part in making family meals affordable.
Our industry leading offers are on everyday products and things that people want.
We helped our customers with great value deals such as our 4 family meal deals, which comprised eight fresh food items for 50p each.
Value We are proud to offer the best value for money across all our ranges of food.
We offer our customers great prices on all products, not just promotions.
co. uk annualreview09 11 Value is key to our vision and is especially important in the current market conditions.
We offer quality and freshness at a price people like.
The industry appreciates this too, and we have been awarded Retailer of the Year for the second year running, and commended both for our strength on fresh produce and competitive stance on price.
We can deliver these achievements because our unique business model and in-store food preparation means that we can provide great value for money across all our ranges.
Value product range relaunched Key Performance Indicators All our own label ranges have shown growth in the year, none more so than our Value range, which following a relaunch has grown by 50%.
With over 300 everyday essentials like bread, baked beans, soup Dividend cover and bacon all in simple, yellow and white packaging, the Value range is an easy way to reduce the cost of our customers weekly shop.
2.9times 2009 2.9 2008 3.0 2007 2.1 2006 0.5 We have targeted progressive dividend growth in 2008 and 2009, over and above earnings growth, in order to bring dividend cover in line Closer to source for Carrier bags with the average for our sector, better value and quality usage reduced which is around 2.5 times, by January 2010.
We set a target to reduce plastic carrier bag usage by 25% by the end of 2008.
We achieved a 32% reduction, the equivalent to 505 million bags, exceeding We have 13 our target by 7%.
In May 2008, and again manufacturing sites in December, we urged our customers including: to help reduce single use carrier bags by giving a free reusable carrier bag to 3 abattoirs every shopper.
On each occasion we What makes Morrisons different from other 3 bakeries gave away 10m reusable bags one for supermarkets is that we control our supply chain.
6 fruit and vegetable each of our customers, made from 100% By cutting out the middleman we can keep costs packhouses and recycled material and larger than standard lower and deliver good value to our customers.
We encouraged our customers to use the reusable bags on every shop.
Our control of the fresh food supply chain gives us great In 2008, we also introduced a new flexibility to respond to changing customer needs and reusable wine carrier made of 100% priorities.
This flexibility means we can lead the industry recycled PET bottles.
with great value and fresh food.
Our abattoir and butchery operations are designed to use the whole animal, with minimal food waste.
We have 124,000 a long heritage of selling lower priced cuts of meat such as brisket and neck fillet, which make delicious meals at employees across bargain prices.
These cuts are once again popular, and the business we are best placed to provide such variety and value.
average for the year Equally, by being close to the source of supply, our fresh meat and fish quality cannot be matched even by more expensive competitors.
12 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Our customers tell us about the great service they have received There can be no better trained staff than those at your Derby store.
Nothing is too much trouble for these workers, from shelf-fillers to upper management.
They are informative, considerate, and a pleasure to talk to.
H Coleman, customer, Derby store Service We are famous for great service and our friendly employees are experts in their trade.
We aim to always have the products our customers want, available at all times of the day.
co. uk annualreview09 13 Surveys tell us that our customers appreciate the service they get at our stores and that it is better than the service they receive at other supermarkets.
Our employees are skilled and knowledgeable in their trade and they give our customers what they want fresh food served by helpful, friendly, well-trained people.
With our commitment to great selling and service we aim to get it right for our customers every time.
Great service is also about making the products available so our customers can get the things they want when they visit our stores.
By having our own distribution network, we can ensure the right products are always available when our customers need them.
We were proud to win all three major industry titles Key Performance Indicators in the same year Retail Week Retailer of Customer footfall We are the only retailer to have won this prestigious award the Year 2008 This year we attracted an additional 550,000 customers through our for two consecutive years, being commended for the use and 2009 checkouts each week.
of imaginative and extensive marketing to highlight our traditional strengths in fresh produce and our competitive stance on price.
% 4.2 Retail Industry Awards Supermarket of average weekly increase in like-for-like stores.
The judges commented that we won the award because we came the Year 2008 back stronger following a challenging period: they also noted the efforts we had made in refreshing our product ranges.
Number of people preparing food The Grocer Gold Awards Grocer of The Grocer judges praised Morrisons for the success of its the Year 2008 stores refresh programme and our focus on the fresh food 28,000 offering of Market Street.
We have over 28,000 staff preparing the food we sell across our business.
Each of our stores The Fresh Food Academy Leading the way in has Market Street where there are availability trained professionals delivering Launched in 2009, the quality food and service.
Academy will help increase Our in-house distribution network the quality, value and allows us to cater to our customers service we provide to our needs in quick time, ensuring availability customers.
Over the coming Employee stability is strong.
For instance, on Christmas year, as part of its store Eve our customers could still buy fresh expansion, Morrisons will % bread and Brussels sprouts up to 4pm create 5,000 new jobs.
Our vertical integration jobs will be created across means we have security of supply the business in a variety of into our stores, unlike some of our 2008 09 78.0% departments including butchery, fishmongery and competitors.
It also delivers speed 2007 08 75.7% bakery.
The Academy will play a key role in developing and flexibility by bringing in new lines 2006 07 71.3% people in these areas.
in response to changing customer demands.
We can do this because The Fresh is Best programme is designed to help us In 2008, we conducted an we are in control of our supply chain.
Engaging and training managers employee satisfaction survey to assess our progress against four in consistently delivering market leading availability, KPIs: pride, commitment, loyalty product presentation and quality, preparing the freshest and satisfaction.
We are pleased product, maintaining standards, reducing wastage and with our overall improvement in giving great selling and service.
By demonstrating what performance and we recognise there is even more we can achieve.
good and fresh is, we help managers to maintain and improve standards.
It establishes our core operational Employee stability is measured as the percentage of employees who have been basics as well as putting our values into action in a with us for over one year.
way that impacts the customer.
So far we have run 116 courses training 2,338 managers.
14 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Closer to source Our buyers deal directly with producers, whilst other retailers may deal through wholesalers.
We operate whole crop purchasing which gives the producer a fairer deal and provides good value and good quality to our customers.
Our business model As a food specialist, we are different from our larger competitors.
We emphasise our deep understanding of food, through being closer to source, through our unique manufacturing, packing and distribution facilities, and through the amount of food preparation in our stores.
co. uk annualreview09 15 What makes Morrisons different from other supermarkets is that we control our supply chain we are closer to source by cutting out the middleman.
The advantages of this business model are: our customers get great value for money and fresh food at great prices: and we can react earlier to consumer trends and bring seasonal food in-store quicker than other supermarkets.
Being closer to source means we can better control the provenance and From quality of our food.
Ethical and sustainable sourcing is important selection... to us and we work with the producers to develop a relationship that is reasonable and fair to all parties.
We own all our manufacturing facilities, which means we reduce our to the supply chain lead times allowing us to maximise the freshness in-store and packhouse... reduce waste and costs.
The vast majority of our fresh food is prepared by our production plants providing us with security of supply.
We own and operate a very modern transport fleet, ensuring freshness delivered and cost control.
We believe we have the quickest turnaround time to... between order and delivery compared to any other supermarket.
Because we prepare food in-store, we can react to customer trends all our throughout the day, only producing what the customer wants.
waste, makes us price efficient and keeps our costs low to the customer.
% Top 5 100 UK food producer British Our manufacturing sites We sell only 100% British make us one of the largest pork, beef and lamb.
16 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Meet the experts around Market Street, where our customers will find fresh food prepared by our expertly trained staff.
We pride ourselves on providing our customers with fresh food just the way they like it.
In Market Street we have more people preparing food than any other retailer and we employ more specialist butchers, fishmongers and bakers than our competitors.
At Morrisons fish counters around the country, our 800 fully trained fishmongers can prepare more than 50 kinds of the highest quality fish and they can answer any questions on choosing or cooking fish.
All our fish is from sustainable sources and we only sell fresh fish from our counter which has never been frozen.
Our Fresh To Go staff make a great range of sandwiches, Our Deli staff prepare a wide range of products fresh pizzas and salads throughout each and every day.
We only throughout the day and can cut as much or as little as the sell our in-store produced sandwiches on the day they are customer wants.
They can help our customers select the made to give the freshest possible product.
Our pizzas perfect cheeses for their cheeseboard and then prepare it are freshly prepared in-store using the finest ingredients fresh straightaway.
and carefully topped by hand.
co. uk annualreview09 17 Our crusty bread and soft roll ranges are made from The Oven Baked department offers the largest selection scratch in-store, every day.
We have 2,000 bakers trained of British whole chicken and chicken portions available, in baking craft skills.
We bake 127 different kinds of which are cooked fresh throughout the day.
We also bake bread, all on the premises and our recently introduced in-store the widest range of savoury pies to suit all tastes.
Bakers table ensures our customers have a different artisan offering every month.
Our cake experts hand finish our cakes with freshly Morrisons has over 1,500 trained butchers in-store who whipped cream ensuring our customers purchase cakes cut and prepare over 120 different cuts of British beef, at their very best.
They can produce, at customer request, pork, lamb, and poultry each day.
one of our cakes within minutes.
The layout of our Cake Our butchers can cut steaks, joints, or chops to customer shop enables our skills to be viewed by our customers.
requirements for that special meal.
18 Morrisons Annual review 2009 General information Summary financial statement Auditors The Summary financial statement on pages 23 to 24, the The auditors have reported on the full Annual report and Summary Directors remuneration report on pages 19 to 22 financial statements.
Their report was unqualified and did not and the Summary corporate governance report below, are include a reference to any matters to which the auditors drew summaries of the information contained in the Annual report attention by way of emphasis without qualifying their report, and financial statements 2009. and did not contain a statement under section 235 3, section 237 2 or section 273 3 Companies Act 1985.
The aim of the Annual review is to provide shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and concise manner.
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no Therefore the Annual review and Summary financial statement relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make understanding of the results of the Group, its state of affairs themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to or the policies and arrangements concerning Directors establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
remuneration, as is provided in the Annual report and financial A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and statements.
Copies of the Annual report and financial to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration is to be statements may be obtained free of charge from the Company proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
as noted in the Investor information section at the back of this report.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2009 AGM of the Company to be held at the Principal activity Companys Head Office at Gain lane in Bradford on 4 June The principal activity of the Group is the operation of retail 2009 is sent to shareholders.
Shareholders will also receive supermarket stores and associated activities.
notification of the availability of the results to view on the Result and dividend Groups website, unless they have elected to receive a printed The profit for the period after tax amounted to 460m 2008: version of the results.
The Directors believe each of the 554m.
The Directors propose to pay a final dividend for the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM is in the best interests period of 5.0p on 10 June 2009 to shareholders who are on the of the Group and recommend shareholders to vote in favour register of members on 8 May 2009, making a total dividend of of each of them.
Current Directors of the Group Members of the Board at the year end are shown on page 7, together with their biographies.
Sir Ken Morrison and Roger Owen retired from the Board on 13 March 2008 and 1 February 2009 respectively.
Philip Cox joined the Board on 1 April 2009 as a Non-Executive Director.
Summary corporate governance report Throughout 2008 09, the Group has complied with the The Group implemented revised whistle-blowing procedures provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and during February 2008 following the year end: therefore the applied its principles with the exceptions that at the beginning procedures did not exist throughout the whole period.
of the year, the Board did not comprise at least half NonA report explaining our governance policies and practices is Executive Directors and the Audit Committee did not have a given in the Annual report.
The full terms of reference of the member with recent relevant financial experience.
With the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the schedule retirements of Sir Ken Morrison and Roger Owen in the past year of matters reserved for the Board along with the full Corporate plus the recruitment of Philip Cox as a Non-Executive Director governance report can be found in the Annual report and on the from April 2009, the Board will comprise of a majority of corporate website, independent Non-Executive Directors: Philip Cox will also www.
co. uk corporate investors corporate-governance provide recent and relevant financial experience.
co. uk annualreview09 19 Summary Directors remuneration report This Summary remuneration report is an extract from the Annual bonus Directors remuneration report contained within the Annual The Remuneration Committee operated an annual bonus plan report and financial statements for the 52 weeks ended for Executive Directors and other senior managers during 1 February 2009.
The full remuneration report can be found in 2008 09.
The maximum bonus was 100% of base salary, with the Annual report and financial statements 2009 or viewed on measurement based upon profit before taxation excluding the corporate website, www.
co. uk annualreport09 exceptionals and personal objectives, as set out below: Measures % of bonus potential The members of and advisers to the Remuneration Committee Profit before tax, excluding exceptionals 80% can be found in the Corporate governance report on page 31 Personal objectives 20% of the Annual report 2009 or viewed on the corporate website, www.
co. uk corporate investors corporate-governance No bonus was payable for the achievement of personal Remuneration policy objectives unless the minimum profit targets had been achieved.
The Companys remuneration policies are designed to encourage Details of the actual amounts paid for 2008 09 are set out in a strong performance culture and emphasise long-term the Directors emoluments table on page 21. shareholder value creation, with clear links between executive For the 2009 10 annual bonus plan, maximum bonus potential performance goals and business strategy.
The reward structure will remain at 100% of base salary.
In addition to profit before should enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate tax excluding exceptionals and personal objectives, strategic the best talent who have been and will continue to be key to corporate scorecard measures structured around financial the Companys recent success and future performance by objectives, operational excellence, customers and employees positioning base salaries around the mid-market and operating have been introduced, as set out below: annual and long-term incentives, so that a substantial proportion Measures % of bonus potential of total remuneration is subject to performance and so that Profit before tax, excluding exceptionals 65% executives are aligned with shareholders through share Strategic corporate scorecard measures 20% ownership.
The chart below demonstrates the balance between Personal objectives 15% fixed and performance-related pay for the Chief Executive at target and maximum performance levels.
No bonus will be payable for the achievement of strategic corporate scorecard measures or personal objectives unless the Performance-related versus fixed remuneration minimum profit target has been achieved.
% Target Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved by shareholders in 2007, is designed to reward management for achieving the Maximum Groups strategic objectives and to provide an appropriate level of long-term performance pay.
Each year, participants receive 0102030405060708090 100 conditional awards of shares in the Group which will normally Fixed pay base salary and pension, excluding benefits Bonus LTIP vest three years after they are awarded, subject to the Base salary and benefits satisfaction of performance conditions measured over a threeDuring the year, base salaries were reviewed in the light of year period and continued service.
The plans individual annual benchmark data, internal relativities and personal performance.
limit is 300% of salary face value of shares.
In 2008, awards The factors used for this review are detailed in the full Directors were made at the 300% level to Marc Bolland and at the 200% remuneration report.
level to the other Executive Directors.
The current intention is that Marc Bollands future award levels from April 2009 will Current base salary rates for the financial year, together with the revert back to 250%.
Performance measures are 75% based on previous years salaries, are set out below: earnings per share and 25% based on like-for-like non-fuel sales 2009 10 2008 09 growth.
These performance metrics were selected for the 1 Marc Bolland 850,000 757,050 following reasons: Mark Gunter 540,750 540,750 they are directly linked to the objectives set out in the Groups Richard Pennycook 540,750 519,120 strategy improving EPS and sales performance reflects the Martyn Jones 450,000 425,000 need for basic profit growth and should flow through to 1 850,000 effective from 1 August 2008. increased shareholder value: The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the increases there is a clear line of sight between performance and reward: shown above were necessary to enable the Company to pay competitive base salaries and are reasonable in the context they are relatively easy to understand and communicate.
of the Directors total remuneration packages.
Benefits include health insurance, transport costs and telephone expenses.
20 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Summary Directors remuneration report continued No awards can vest under the sales targets unless the threshold 2008 09.
Following a review of this provision against the EPS target has been met.
market, it was determined that the salary supplement should be increased from 10% to 15% for 2009 10 onwards.
Marc Bolland For the awards intended to be granted in April 2009, details is not in the pension scheme but instead receives a salary of the three-year EPS and sales targets are set out below.
supplement of 30% of salary which will remain unchanged.
25% of the EPS related component of the award will vest if the On 25th February 2009 the Group commenced consultation Groups Underlying EPS grows in line with the growth in the with all active members of the Groups two defined benefit Retail Prices Index plus an average of 4% per annum, rising on schemes.
The proposals change the basis of pensions from final a pro rata basis until 100% vests for outperforming the Index salary to career average revalued earnings.
Underlying EPS will be as defined in the notes to the financial statements.
Executive Directors contracts All Executive Directors have a service agreement without expiry In light of food price unpredictability, the Remuneration dates.
These contracts can be terminated by either the Group Committee reviewed the best way of measuring sales growth or Director giving 12 months notice.
and has made a revision to ensure that performance continues to be measured in a robust way.
Instead of setting absolute The Remuneration Committee has in place a model contract like-for-like sales growth targets, the Remuneration Committee which provides that any compensation provisions for considers that it is preferable to measure the Groups like-fortermination without notice will only extend to 12 months like grocery sales growth against the Institute of Grocery of salary, benefits and pension which may be payable in Distribution IGD Index, which measures market growth in instalments and subject to mitigation.
Going forward, all new like-for-like sales excluding fuel.
This independently audited Director contracts will be on that basis.
The model contract does index, which includes all of the Companys major competitors, not contain change of control provisions.
This policy was applied is considered to be the most reliable method of measuring to Marc Bolland at the time of his recruitment and to Mark market growth.
Gunter and Martyn Jones from 2007.
Richard Pennycooks contract provides that he has an obligation to mitigate his loss 25% of the sales growth related component of the award will in the event of termination in breach of contract.
vest if the Groups like-for-like sales matches the IGD Index, rising on a pro rata basis until 100% vests for outperforming All Executive Directors have rolling contracts with a 12-month the Index by at least 2% over the three years ending with the notice period.
Like-for-like sales is defined as the Roger Owen tendered his resignation on 18 October 2007 and reported sales from existing space excluding VAT, less total left the business on 1 February 2009.
On the basis that full fuel sales.
As has been the previous practice, no part of the notice was served, there was no termination payment made in award relating to sales growth can vest unless the minimum relation to his contract.
Roger Owen participated in the Annual EPS target is achieved.
Bonus Plan for 2008 09 and received an award under the LTIP in Share ownership guidelines April 2008.
Consistent with best practice, the two sets of LTIP The Group operates share ownership guidelines for Executive awards granted to Roger Owen will continue to vest three years Directors.
Under the guidelines, Directors are expected to retain from the relevant grant date, subject to the satisfaction of 50% of vested LTIP awards net of tax until such time as they performance conditions, with amounts pro-rated to reflect the own shares worth 100% of their salary after which point they period of time between the grant date and the leaving date.
will be expected to retain, as a minimum, this level of holding.
Non-Executive Directors contracts Pension arrangements Brian Flanagan, Paul Manduca, Susan Murray and Nigel The Executive Directors, with the exception of Marc Bolland, Robertson were appointed for a three-year period from their participate in the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Scheme.
original dates of appointment in 2005.
Following the expiry Pension entitlements accrue at the rate of 1 30th for each year, of this initial period, each has been reappointed for a further with a maximum pension of 2 3rds pensionable salary at age three-year term, unless otherwise terminated earlier by, and at 62.
For members joining after 31 May 1989, final pensionable the discretion of, either party upon one months written notice.
pay is the lower of the average of the highest three years Following the retirement of Sir Kenneth Morrison as Chairman pensionable pay in the Directors last 10 years of employment on 13 March 2008, Sir Ian Gibson was appointed as Nonand the maximum earnings limit which in 2008 09 is 117,600.
Sir Ian Gibson was appointed to the Board for a three-year period from 1 September 2007 unless otherwise Mark Gunter, Richard Pennycook, and Martyn Jones, who were terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, either party upon all subject to the earnings cap in place before April 2006 which 12 months written notice.
has been retained for benefits accruing thereafter, received a cash supplement of 10% of salary in excess of the cap in www.
co. uk annualreview09 21 Non-Executive Directors receive no benefits from their office other than fees and staff discount entitlement, and are not eligible to participate in the Groups pension arrangements.
The current levels are as follows: Senior Committee Independent Base Chairmanship Director Total Name 000 000 000 000 B Flanagan 60 60 I Gibson 300 300 P Manduca 60 10 20 90 S Murray 60 10 70 N Robertson 60 60 Total 540 20 20 580 Directors emoluments and pension entitlements The emoluments of the Directors were as follows: Directors Benefits Pension Annual Total year to Total year to salaries fees in kind supplement bonus 1 Feb 2009 3 Feb 2008 Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Chairman I Gibson 279 279 52 Chairman 1, 3 K Morrison 78 6 84 736 Executive Directors M Bolland 804 47 241 608 1,700 1,689 M Gunter 541 37 42 434 1,054 1,093 M Jones 425 31 31 332 819 980 R Owen 525 35 389 949 1,009 R Pennycook 519 35 40 417 1,011 1,145 Non-Executive Directors B Flanagan 56 56 45 P Manduca 84 84 65 S Murray 66 66 55 N Robertson 56 56 45 Former Directors 2 D Hutchinson 268 Total 3,433 191 354 2,180 6,158 7,182 Resigned from the Board with effect from: 1 13 March 2008.
3 During the period under review, Sir Kenneth Morrison also exercised share options granted to him over the Companys shares, realising a gain of 955,000.
The following Directors had accrued entitlements under defined benefit schemes as follows: Increase in Transfer accrued value of pension the increase Transfer Transfer Movement excluding in accrued value of value of in transfer Accrued inflation pension Accrued accrued accrued value pension at in year ended during pension at pension at pension at during 3 Feb 2008 1 Feb 2009 the year 1 Feb 2009 3 Feb 2008 1 Feb 2009 the year Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors M Gunter 47 3 31 52 491 514 23 M Jones 30 3 34 35 319 339 20 1 R Owen 321 N A N A 295 5,278 5,257 N A R Pennycook 8 3 24 12 70 84 14 Total 406 9 89 394 6,158 6,194 57 1 Roger Owen retired on 1 February 2009 and the pension shown is the early retirement pension.
It is not therefore directly comparable to the prior year figures.
22 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Summary Directors remuneration report continued Performance graph Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Financial The following graph shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared against the TSR of the FTSE100 and 200 FTSE Food & Drug Retailers indices over the five-year period to 1 February 2009.
These indices have been selected as being 150 appropriate in giving a broad equity view and the Company is a constituent of both indices.
100 50 2 Feb 04 30 Jan 05 29 Jan 06 4 Feb 07 3 Feb 08 1 Feb 09 Wm Morrison FTSE All Share Food & Drug FTSE100 Retailers Index Independent auditors statement to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC We have examined the Summary financial statement which Basis of opinion comprises the Summary consolidated income statement on We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The page 23, Summary consolidated balance sheet on page 23, auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued Summary consolidated cash flow statement on page 23 and by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Groups full Summary Directors remuneration report set out on pages 19 annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit to 22. opinion on those financial statements and the Directors remuneration report.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act Opinion 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to In our opinion the Summary financial statement is consistent the Companys members those matters we are required to state with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the and the Directors remuneration report of Wm Morrison fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Supermarkets PLC for the 52 week period ended 1 February responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 2009 and complies with the applicable requirements of Companys members as a body, for our work, for this statement, section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We have not considered the effects of any events between the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review date on which we signed our report on the full annual financial in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
statements 11 March 2009 and the date of this statement.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary financial statement within the Annual review with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and KPMG Audit Plc its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of Chartered Accountants the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Registered Auditor Leeds We also read the other information contained in the Annual 21 April 2009 review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial statement.
Value of hypothetical 100 holding www.
co. uk annualreview09 23 Summary financial statement 52 weeks ended 1 February 2009 Summary consolidated income statement 2009 2008 Note m m Turnover 14,528 12,969 Gross profit 913 818 Other operating income 37 30 Administrative expenses 281 268 Profits arising on property transactions 2 32 Operating profit 671 612 Net finance costs 16 Profit before taxation 655 612 Taxation 195 58 Profit for the financial period 460 554 Earnings per share pence basic 2 17.39 20.79 diluted 2 17.16 20.67 Ordinary dividend per share pence Interim paid 1 0.800 0.675 Final proposed 1 5.000 paid 1 4.125 Total dividend 5.800 4.800 Summary consolidated balance sheet 2009 2008 m m Property assets 7,079 6,687 Current assets and liabilities excluding debt 1,284 1,135 Deferred tax 472 424 Net pension 49 68 Provisions 112 139 Net debt 642 543 Net assets 4,520 4,378 Called-up share capital 263 269 Share premium 60 57 Capital redemption reserve 6 Merger reserve 2,578 2,578 Retained earnings and other reserves 1,613 1,474 Total equity 4,520 4,378 Summary consolidated cash flow statement 2009 2008 m m Cash flows from operations 964 756 Proceeds from disposals 22 94 Capital expenditure 678 402 Shares repurchased for cancellation 146 Sale and issue of shares 3 17 Tax, interest and servicing of finance 145 128 Dividends 131 108 Cash flow 111 229 Other non-cash movement 12 Opening net debt 543 772 Closing net debt 642 543 24 Morrisons Annual review 2009 Summary financial statement continued 52 weeks ended 1 February 2009 1 Ordinary dividends Pence per share 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Interim dividend 0.800 0.675 0.625 0.625 0.625 Final dividend 5.000 4.125 3.375 3.075 3.075 Total dividend 5.800 4.800 4.000 3.700 3.700 A final dividend of 5.0p has been proposed, taking the total for the year to 5.8p.
This represents total dividend growth of 21% 2008: 20%.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 10 June 2009 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 8 May 2009.
2 Earnings per share 2009 2008 Underlying earnings per share pence basic 16.67 14.38 diluted 16.45 14.29 3 Underlying earnings The adjustments made to reported profit are: a remove potential income statement volatility within net pension interest: b remove profits arising on property transactions since these profits do not form part of the Groups principal activities: and c normalise the tax charge as required.
In the current period, we have used the actual tax charge as the difference between the actual tax charge and a normalised charge is not significant.
In the prior period an effective tax rate of 32% was applied, being an estimated normalised tax rate, since the prior periods effective tax rate was considerably lower than the prevailing rate.
Underlying earnings are: 2009 2008 m m Profit before tax 655 612 Adjustments for Profits arising on property transactions 2 32 Adjustments for Net pension interest income 17 17 Underlying earnings before tax 636 563 Taxation 2008: normalised tax rate of 32% 195 180 Underlying earnings after tax charge 441 383 Further information Further information on our financial performance can be found in the Annual report and financial statements 2009.
Details of how to obtain a copy of the Annual report are explained in the Investor information section at the back of this report.
The Annual review and Summary financial statement 2009 were approved by the Board on 21 April 2009.
M Bolland and R Pennycook signed the Summary financial statement on behalf of the Board.
co. uk annualreview09 Investor information Environmental matters The effect of our business on the environment is something that Financial calendar 2009 10 Morrisons takes very seriously.
In the production of the Annual Financial events and dividends report and financial statements 2009, we have contributed to Final dividend record date 08 05 09 the reduction in environmental damage in the following ways: Annual General Meeting 04 06 09 Quarterly management statement 04 06 09 a Website Final dividend payment date 10 06 09 Morrison shareholders receive a printed copy of the Annual Half year end 02 08 09 review and summary financial statement.
The full Annual report Interim results announcement 10 09 09 is available for viewing or downloading from the corporate Interim dividend record date 02 10 09 website, www.
co. uk Interim dividend payment date 09 11 09 Shareholders are encouraged to view the report on the website Quarterly management statement 19 11 09 which is exactly the same as the printed version, but using the Financial year end 31 01 10 internet has clear advantages such as lowering costs and Preliminary results announcement 11 03 10 reducing the environmental impact.
b Carbon offset Annual General Meeting The Annual report and financial statements, the Annual review The AGM will be held at 11am on Thursday 4 June 2009 at and summary financial statement and the Corporate Social Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Head Office, Gain Lane, Responsibility report have been assessed with the assistance of Bradford, BD3 7DL.
A separate notice convening the meeting the Carbon Trust for the amount of carbon emissions that will is sent to shareholders, which includes an explanation of the be generated in their preparation, printing and delivery.
To items of special business to be considered at the meeting.
offset these carbon emissions a donation has been made to PURE, The Clean Planet Trust, the first UK registered charity Dividend Reinvestment Plan dedicated to combating climate change by offsetting.
More The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows information about PURE can be found on their website, shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys www.
Full details of the plan and its charges, Further information about other ways in which the Group together with mandate forms, are available from the Registrars.
is helping with environmental change can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility report 2008 09 which can be Online reports and accounts viewed on the Morrisons website.
Our Annual and Interim Group accounts are available to download from the website along with Corporate Social Investor Relations Responsibility reports and other financial announcements.
Telephone: 0845 611 5710 The information in the Annual report and financial statements, Email: accinvr@morrisonsplc.
co. uk Annual review and summary financial statement and the Corporate Social Responsibility enquiries Interim reports are exactly the same as in the printed version.
Telephone: 0845 611 5000 Obtaining copies of the Annual report Registrars and Shareholding enquiries The Annual report and financial statements for 2009 and prior Administrative enquiries about the holding of Morrisons shares, years are available to download from our website.
Alternatively, such as change of address, change of ownership, dividend a printed copy of the the Annual report and financial payments and the Dividend Reinvestment Plan should be statements can be obtained free of charge by contacting directed to: the Company Secretary.
Capita Registrars Telephone: 0845 611 5000 Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge Morrisons website Huddersfield, HD8 0GA Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 Overseas: 44 208 639 3399 www.
co. uk, which contains sections for consumer, Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
