30 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Corporate governance report Combined Code The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council as revised in June 2006.
Throughout 2008 09 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and applied its principles, except in the following areas: Combined Code provisions Status Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, At the beginning of the year there With the retirements of Sir Ken Morrison and excluding the Chairman, was one more Executive Director Roger Owen in the past year plus the recruitment comprise independent than Non-Executive Directors.
of Philip Cox as a Non-Executive Director in April Non-Executive Directors.
2009, the Board will comprise of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
C. 3.1 at least one member of During the year the Audit Committee It is intended that Philip Cox will, after a period the Audit Committee has recent did not have a member with recent of induction, chair the Audit Committee.
He has relevant financial experience.
recent and relevant financial experience.
C. 3.4 there are arrangements Comprehensive whistle-blowing Whistle-blowing procedures were enhanced in place for the staff to raise procedures did not exist throughout after the start of the year in February 2008. concerns in confidence.
The Board d Non-Executive Directors a Membership The Non-Executive Directors provide a varied range of skills and On 1 February 2009, the Board comprised of a Non-Executive experience to the Group.
The Board is satisfied that all NonChairman, four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Executive Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman remain Directors.
On 13 March 2008, Sir Ken Morrison retired as Chairman independent according to the definition contained in the Combined and Director of the Company.
Sir Ian Gibson, previously Deputy Code.
No Non-Executive Director: Chairman was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on this date.
has previously been employed by the Group within the last There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Nonfive years: Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive CEO, which has been has had a material business relationship with the Group within set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
the last three years: On 1 February 2009, Roger Owen retired as a Director and on receives remuneration other than Directors fees: 1 April 2009, Philip Cox will join the Group as a Non-Executive Director.
With these changes, the majority of the Board will consist has close family ties with any of the Groups advisors, Directors of Non-Executive independent Directors.
Details of appointments, or senior employees: roles and backgrounds of the Directors are set out on page 28. holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other b Performance evaluation Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: The performance of the Board, its committees and its Directors represents a significant shareholder: or is assessed and appraised throughout the year.
The Chairman is responsible for the monitoring of the performance of the Executive has served on the Board for more than nine years.
In January 2009, the Chairman conducted an evaluation, All Non-Executive Directors are provided with a comprehensive, without external assistance, of the performance of the Board and formal and tailored induction to the business.
The minimum time the results were shared with the other Directors.
The Board was commitment expected of the Non-Executive Directors is one day satisfied with its performance and it agreed to act on those areas per month attendance at meetings, together with attendance at for which it believed improved processes could be implemented.
the Annual General Meeting, Board away days and site visits, plus c Senior Independent Director adequate preparation time.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Paul Manduca, the Senior Independent Director SID is available Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time to the business to shareholders as an alternative to the Chairman, CEO and the of the Group and contributes to the governance and operations Group Finance Director.
The SID ensures that he is available to meet of the Group.
shareholders during the year and reports any relevant findings to the Board or Chairman.
Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 31 e Board responsibilities The Directors attended the following numbers of Board and The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and Committee meetings: key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress towards Board Nomination Audit Remuneration achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial performance, Number of meetings 12 1 6 8 critical operational issues and risks.
The Board also approves all Marc Bolland 12 12 1 1 circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and correspondence to the Brian Flanagan 12 12 1 1 6 6 8 8 shareholders including the Annual report, half yearly financial report Sir Ian Gibson 12 12 1 1 8 8 and interim management statements.
The formal schedule of Mark Gunter 11 12 matters reserved for the Board remains unaltered and further details Martyn Jones 12 12 are available in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website Paul Manduca 12 12 1 1 6 6 7 8 www.
co. uk Sir Ken Morrison 3 3 Susan Murray 12 12 1 1 6 6 8 8 Operating boards Roger Owen 11 12 The Board delegates the operational responsibility to the following Richard Pennycook 12 12 three main bodies, with the CEO and the Group Finance Director Nigel Robertson 11 12 1 1 5 6 8 8 being members of each: The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of insurance a Executive Board cover for Directors to defend themselves against legal claims and The Executive Board comprises four Executive Directors who civil actions.
The level of cover is currently 60m aggregate.
oversee the day-to-day direction of the retail business.
The Executive Board meets frequently through the year.
Examples of the Full terms of reference of the Committees are available on request matters brought to the Executive Board include store and product and on the Groups website www.
co. uk performance, brand management, food safety, marketing initiatives a Nomination Committee and the Groups corporate social responsibilities.
During the year, the activities of the Committee were focused on b Property Board recruiting a Non-Executive Director with recent and relevant The Property Board consists of three Executive Directors and meets financial experience.
This Board has oversight of the strategic development and The project culminated in the appointment of Philip Cox, who will operational management of the Groups property.
Matters brought take up his position as a Non-Executive Director with effect from to this Board include development of new stores and facilities, 1 April 2009. refurbishments and extensions.
The Committee employed executive search agency, MWM c Manufacturing & Distribution Board Consulting to identify candidates who were then interviewed by The Manufacturing & Distribution Board comprises two Executive members of the Committee.
Meetings also took place with other Directors, the Manufacturing Director and the Distribution Director Executive Directors as appropriate.
Following this process, the plus one other senior executive.
This body meets monthly and Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of Philip considers the strategic development of the Groups manufacturing Cox to the Board on 19 February 2009. and distribution functions.
b Remuneration Committee Committees of the Board The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is to encourage a The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration strong performance culture and emphasise long term shareholder and Nomination Committees.
The intention is to position remuneration Committee membership arrangements competitively against the market, with a clear reward Name Nomination Audit Remuneration structure to enable the Group to attract, retain and motivate the Marc Bolland X best talent, who are key to the Groups recent and future success.
Brian Flanagan X X X Sir Ian Gibson X X The Human Resources Director has advised the Group on all Paul Manduca X X X remuneration related matters, including pensions and Executive Susan Murray X X X Directors contracts.
Where necessary, this advice was Nigel Robertson X X X supplemented by external advisors.
The Committee also receives advice from its appointed advisors Hewitt New Bridge Street on remuneration matters, Jardine Lloyd Thompson in respect of pensions, and Ashursts in respect of Executive Directors contracts.
32 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Corporate governance report continued c Audit Committee the external auditors work plan for the Group and its subsidiaries: The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility the detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion of any for reviewing on its behalf: major issues that arose during the audit: the integrity of financial reports: the letter from KPMG Audit Plc confirming its independence and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk objectivity: and management system: and the audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided by the the independence of the external auditors.
The Audit Committees responsibilities have not changed during In this period the external auditors have provided a significant level the year.
of non-audit work, primarily to provide the Board with independent assurance in respect of the IT systems replacement.
The Board The Audit Committee regularly considers the professional believes that this activity is a reasonable extension of their statutory development needs of its members, and whether adequate technical audit work and that there are safeguards in place to avoid a threat information is being provided.
Where necessary, it will seek to their independence or objectivity.
The Board has a policy on the independent external advice at the Groups expense, with such engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services arrangements made through the Company Secretary.
Whilst the and the Committee has reviewed the scope of non-audit services Audit Committee was short of a member with recent and relevant provided by the external auditors to ensure that there was no financial experience, the Company Secretary had retained, at impairment of objectivity.
the request of the Audit Committee Chairman, the services of  LLP to advise the Audit Committee ii Internal control at relevant times during the year.
The Board is responsible for setting a system of internal controls for the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
The control system There has been no change in the composition of the Audit is intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not meeting Committee during the year and the roles of the members also the Groups strategic objectives, whilst recognising that certain remained unchanged.
It is intended that Philip Cox will chair the inherent risks may be outside the Groups control.
Any system of Audit Committee after an appropriate period of induction.
The internal control can only seek to provide reasonable, not absolute, Chairman, the CEO, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Risk assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and Internal Audit and other finance department representatives have attended meetings by invitation.
The Board delegates to the Audit Committee the review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management i Overview of actions taken by the Audit Committee in systems.
During the year, the Committee discharged this discharging its duties responsibility by: The Committee has received and reviewed reports and presentations from senior management to fulfil its terms receiving and considering regular reports from the internal audit of reference.
To meet its responsibilities in this respect, the function on the status of internal control and risk management Committee considered: systems across the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the departments findings, annual plan and the resources available interim and preliminary announcements, together with any other to it to perform its work: formal announcements relating to financial performance: reviewing the external auditors management letters on internal the accounting principles, policies and procedures adopted in financial control: the Groups financial statements including, where necessary, challenging the judgements made: and seeking reports from senior management on the effectiveness of the management of key risk areas: and the potential effects of tax and pensions accounting and other significant judgemental and complex accounting issues dealt monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of managements within the financial statements.
response to identified audit issues.
The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the During the year, a Group-wide process for identifying, evaluating external auditors.
Private meetings are held with the external and managing the significant risks faced by the business was auditors, without management present.
The purpose of these initiated.
This process consisted of various workshops, facilitated by meetings is to understand their views on the control and governance the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, designed to identify formally environment and managements effectiveness within it.
To fulfil its and document the key risks faced by various business operations in responsibilities in respect of the independence and effectiveness of achieving their business objectives.
Risks identified as part of this the external auditors, the Committee reviewed: process are evaluated based on the likelihood and potential impact of each risk and where necessary, actions to mitigate the risks were the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of the external also identified.
auditors as set out in the engagement letter: Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 33 In order to further strengthen the internal control environment, the Group introduced whistle-blowing procedures in February 2008 in order to enable colleagues to raise concerns about possible malpractice or wrongdoing.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Head of Risk and Internal Audit on any whistleblowing activity.
Whilst there were no significant concerns raised by colleagues, all actions required were discussed and agreed with the Committee.
The Board is satisfied that a continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place for the financial year and up to the date of this Annual report.
To date, no material financial problems have been identified that would affect the results reported in these financial statements.
The Board confirms that if significant weaknesses had been identified during this review the Board would have taken the necessary steps to remedy them.
Shareholder relations The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Investor Relations Director also maintains a programme of work that reports to the Board the requirements and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, attend the AGM.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer any questions.
Additionally, the Groups brokers sought independent feedback from investors following the annual and interim results in 2008.
This feedback was reported to the Board.
