Corporate governance report Including the report of the Audit Committee where communication through the Chairman or the Executive Compliance with the Combined Code Directors may not seem appropriate.
The Nominations The Board is committed to the highest standards of Committee, as well as the Board as a whole, considers corporate governance.
It recognises that it is accountable succession planning and the appropriate composition to the Companys shareholders for good governance, to of the Board.
facilitate ef cient and effective management in order to deliver The Companys Articles of Association provide that one-third shareholder value over the long term, within appropriately of the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each established risk parameters.
The principal governance rules Director will seek re-election by the shareholders at the Annual applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock General Meeting at least once every three years.
Additionally, Exchange are contained in the Combined Code on Corporate new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the Governance the Code, as adopted by the Financial first opportunity after their appointment.
It is Board policy that Reporting Council www.
uk corporate and most Non Executive Directors are normally appointed for an initial recently revised in June 2008.
This report, together with the term of three years, which is then reviewed and extended for Directors report and the Remuneration report, describes up to a further two three-year periods.
It is also Board policy how the Board applied the principles of good governance, as that Non Executive Directors should not generally serve on the contained in section 1 of the Code, and seeks to demonstrate Board for more than nine years and that, in cases where it is how those principles have been applied, and continue to be proposed to exceed this period, the Director concerned will applied, during the year under review.
retire annually and offer himself for re-election.
Details of the Directors seeking election and re-election at the 2009 Annual The Board General Meeting are given below and in the Notice of Meeting.
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time critical business needs.
Directors During the year, the Company held additional Board and Brief particulars of the Directors in of ce at the date of this Board Committee meetings principally to consider and report are listed on pages 50 and 51.
The Directors offering approve the technical aspects of the share placing and rights themselves for re-election at the 2009 Annual General issue which was completed in April 2009: further details of this Meeting are Gareth Davis, Frank Roach and Nigel Stein.
John transaction are on pages 5 and 6.
The Boards primary role is Whybrow, having served on the Board for over nine years, is to provide effective and entrepreneurial leadership necessary also standing for re-election.
Each of these Directors, following to enable the Groups business objectives to be met and to a full performance evaluation during the year, continues to be review the overall strategic development of the Group as a considered by the Board to be effective and to demonstrate whole.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its commitment to his respective role.
In addition, following their decision while day-to-day operational decisions are managed respective Board appointments during the year, Ian Meakins, by the Executive Committee, as referred to on page 54.
Alain Le Goff and Michael Wareing will each be standing for election.
Board composition As at 31 July 2009, the Board of Directors was made up of Board procedures and responsibilities nine members consisting of the Chairman, four Executive A 12-month rolling programme of items for discussion Directors and four Non Executive Directors.
The Chairman by the Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved and the Non Executive Directors are each considered by the and other key issues are considered at appropriate times.
Board to be independent of management and free of any The Board met 12 times during the year and Director relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on of their independent judgement including the Chairman, page 56.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and the despite the longevity of his tenure on the Board.
The Board Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board considers that each of the Non Executive Directors brings his is kept properly informed and is consulted on all matters own senior level of experience and expertise.
In furtherance reserved to it.
Board papers and other information are of the Boards objective to maintain the strength and breadth delivered at times to allow Directors to be properly briefed of expertise and experience on the Board, two additional in advance of meetings to ensure that they are provided Non Executive Directors will join the Board during the next with suf cient resources to undertake their duties.
Alain Le Goff has been appointed with effect from 1 September 2009 and Michael Wareing with effect from The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if 1 October 2009.
Additionally, Mr Wareing will take over from deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice Mr Murray as chairman of the Audit Committee with effect at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Biographical details of the Directors This is in addition to the direct access that every Director has currently in of ce, as well as for the two new appointments, to the Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring are shown on pages 50 and 51.
The Companys policy that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of governance and compliance is implemented throughout both the Executive and Non Executive Directors is detailed the Group.
in the Remuneration report on pages 62 and 66.
The Following their appointment, formal comprehensive distinct roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are and tailored induction is offered to all Directors.
acknowledged, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
This is supplemented by meetings, as required, with major Although now permitted under the Code, the Chairman has shareholders, visits to key locations within the Group and con rmed that he does not chair any other board of directors meetings with members of the Executive Committee and in the FTSE 100.
Gareth Davis is the Companys Senior other key senior executives.
Meetings led by the Senior Independent Director.
His role includes being available for Independent Director between the Non Executive Directors, approach or representation from investors and shareholders, 52 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information both with and without the presence of the Chairman and the Board committees Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Boards annual The formal terms of reference for the Board committees, timetable.
The Board has also arranged to hold at least two approved by the Board and complying with the Code to Board meetings each year at operating locations to help all assist in the discharge of its duties, are available from the Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business, Company Secretary and can also be found on the Companys whilst also providing senior managers from across the Group website at www.
Membership and activities of the opportunity to present to the Board and to meet the the various committees are summarised below.
The Group Directors on more informal occasions.
Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a Board evaluation matter for the Board as a whole, acts as secretary to all Board committees.
During the year, the Board conducted a full evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Nominations Committee Directors, with the assistance of an external facilitator.
The Nominations Committee consists of Messrs Davis, Duff, The evaluation was carried out to assess the quality of the Murray, Stein and Whybrow, who chairs the Committee.
Boards decision-making, its overall contribution and value to Messrs Le Goff and Wareing became members of the the long-term bene t of the Company, and to its preparation Committee on their respective dates of appointment.
Mr Whybrow would not chair the Committee or attend if it The facilitator carried out the evaluation process using a were to consider the appointment of a successor Chairman.
combination of comprehensive questionnaires, one-to-one The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of interviews, observation of Board proceedings and a review the Board and its committees and makes recommendations of relevant Board and Committee papers.
A consolidated with regard to any changes that are considered necessary, report detailing the outcome of the evaluation exercise was both in the identi cation and nomination of new Directors prepared by the facilitator and presented to the Board for and the continuation of existing Directors in of ce.
The evaluation report concluded The Committee retains external search consultants as that the Board, in comparison with other FTSE companies, appropriate, as was the case for the new appointments to rates highly in its effectiveness and in its engagement with the Board as noted on page 52.
The Committee also advises and contribution to the business.
A number of actions and the Board on succession planning for Board appointments improvements were identi ed for the medium to long term, although the Board itself has overall responsibility for including a recommendation to continue to address internal succession generally.
The Committee meets as required and external changes which could affect the business.
and met six times during the year ending 31 July 2009.
The matters discussed included the change of The Board and its Committees will continue to critically review Chief Executive Of cer, the appointment of two additional their procedures, effectiveness and development throughout Non Executive Directors to the Board and changes to the year ahead and the Chairman has reiterated that should Committee membership.
During the year, the Committee any Director have any concerns or observations which they reviewed its terms of reference.
wished to raise, these should be noti ed to him directly or to the Company Secretary, to be addressed appropriately.
Remuneration Committee As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors The Committee consists of Messrs Davis, Stein and Duff, are encouraged to take up an external non executive position who chairs the Committee, all of whom are considered on the board of a non-competitor company, for which they independent within the fide nition set out in the Code.
may retain payments received in respect of such appointment.
Mr Whybrow stepped down from the Committee during In order to avoid any con ict of interest, all appointments the year.
Whilst the Committee continues to consider are subject to the Boards approval and, generally, outside Mr Whybrow as independent, it recognised that the length appointments for Executive Directors are limited to one of his concurrent service on the Board with an Executive company board.
The Board monitors the extent of Directors Director may appear to some observers to be inconsistent other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the Board with that independence.
The Committee met five times during is not compromised.
Details of external directorships and any the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown in fees retained are shown on page 72. the table on page 56.
The Committee has delegated authority to deal, on behalf of the Board, with all remuneration matters, Indemnities including pension entitlements and any compensation In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, payments.
It is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Company has always indemni ed its Directors to the the Executive Directors and the Group Company Secretary maximum extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by the incurred as a result of their of ce.
It is also responsible for determining the fees of the indemnity provisions as fide ned in section 234 of the Chairman and for monitoring and approving the remuneration Companies Act 2006 have been granted to all Directors policy in relation to senior management below Board level.
in of ce and to the Company Secretary and these remain The Committee prepares, for the Boards approval, the in force as at the date of this report.
The Company has Remuneration report, which is presented to shareholders at also arranged appropriate insurance coverage in respect each Annual General Meeting.
of legal action against its Directors and Of cers.
Neither During the year, the Committee reviewed and updated its the Companys indemnity nor insurance would provide any terms of reference.
The chairman of the Committee attends coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have the Annual General Meeting to respond to any questions acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
shareholders may raise on the Committees activities.
Wolseley plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued appropriate induction, which is in addition to the induction Executive Committee which all new Directors receive and includes an overview of The Executive Directors of the Company together with the business, its financial dynamics and risks.
Members of the the Group Chief Information Of cer, the Director of Group Committee may undertake ongoing training as required.
Strategy and Investor Relations, the Group HR Director and Audit Committee members are expected to have an the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, meet at understanding of the following areas: least eight times each year, usually prior to Board meetings.
The Committee addresses operational business issues the principles of, contents of and developments in financial and is responsible for implementing strategy and Group reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and policies, day-to-day management and monitoring business statements of recommended practice and, in particular, the performance.
appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and integrity of the financial statements: Treasury Committee the Companys wider corporate policies and its nancing: The Committee currently consists of the Group Chief and Executive, the Chief Financial Of cer, who chairs the the Companys systems of internal control and matters that Committee, and the Group Treasurer.
Mr Wareing will join the require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts Committee following his appointment on 1 October 2009. and key gures as well as the role of internal and external Mr Harding, the Director of Group Strategy and Investor auditors.
Relations, will also join the Committee on that date.
The Committees role is to consider treasury policy, The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its including financial structures and investments, tax strategy agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
and hedging policies and certain transactions on behalf of The agenda is mostly cyclical although each member of the Group, within a framework delegated by the Board.
the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
Members attendance at the Disclosure Committee meetings held during the year is set out in the table on page 56.
The Committee consists of the Chairman, the Group The Committee invites the Chairman, the Group Chief Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Of cer, who chairs the Executive, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Director of Committee, the Director of Communications and the Group Group Strategy and Investor Relations and the Head of Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The Committee Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of the meets as required to deal with all matters relating to public Companys external auditors, to attend each meeting and announcements of the Company and, in particular, the receive its papers, although it reserves part of each meeting Companys obligations under the Listing and Disclosure Rules for discussions without the invitees present.
Other senior of the UK Listing Authority.
The Committee also assists in executives are invited to present such reports as are required the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of the for the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Audit Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
Committee members meet the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without the presence of executive Audit Committee management at the end of each meeting.
The chairman of The Audit Committee has wide-ranging oversight the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the responsibilities assigned to it by the Board.
It reports regularly Board on the key issues covered by the Committee and the to the Board on compliance in relation to the business Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
activities for which it has responsibility within its terms of The chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General reference.
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
The Committee consists of Messrs Davis, Stein and Murray, who chairs the Committee, all of whom are independent The Committee assists the Board to ful l its responsibilities Non Executive Directors.
The Committees membership is related to external financial reporting and associated reviewed by the Nominations Committee and by Mr Murray announcements.
During the year, the matters reviewed, either at regular intervals.
Members of the Committee are appointed as a committee or subsequently by the Board, included: by the Board following recommendations by the Nominations the Half Year and Full Year financial statements, including the Committee.
On his appointment on 1 October 2009, requirements for financial reporting: Mr Wareing will join the Committee and will then succeed Mr Murray, who will stand down after eight years, as the Half Year results and Annual Final results Committee chairman with effect from 1 January 2010. announcements made to the London Stock Exchange: Mr Murray will remain a member of the Committee until his the Companys Trading and Interim Management retirement from the Board in September 2010.
Statements and, where practicable, all proposed Each member of the Committee brings relevant financial announcements to be made by the Company to the experience at a senior executive level: the expertise and extent that they contained material financial information: experience of the members of the Committee are summarised the documentation relating to the capital reorganisation, on pages 50 and 51.
The Board considers that each member share placing and rights issue: of the Committee is independent within the fide nition set out in the Code.
In addition, Mr Stein having been until September accounting and auditing issues: 2007 Finance Director of GKN plc and Mr Wareing who was changes proposed to the Companys policies and practices: International Chief Executive of KPMG until his retirement in September 2009 provide the Board with the assurance monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal it requires that the Committee has at least one member audit function and reviewing the effectiveness and continued with signi cant, recent and relevant financial experience, as independence of the external auditor: required by the Code.
All members of the Committee receive 54 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information litigation and contingent liabilities and tax matters, including constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a case-bycontingencies against tax liabilities together with compliance case basis so that the best-placed adviser is retained.
with statutory tax obligations: During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of fraud reports and the operation of the Companys whistlethe external auditors, which included receiving responses from blowing policy: each of the Groups operating companies and considered whether the agreed audit plan had been ful lled and the the Companys risk management process: and reasons for any variation from the plan.
The Committee the effectiveness of the Companys internal control also considered the external auditors robustness and the procedures.
degree to which the external auditors were able to assess key accounting and audit judgements.
In accordance with The Committee is also responsible for the development, its remit, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy areas of responsibility and scope of the audit including on external audit and the Committee reserves oversight schedules of unadjusted errors and representation letters as responsibility for monitoring independence, objectivity and set out in the external auditors engagement letter: the overall compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the costeffectiveness of the audit as well as the auditors remuneration The Committee recommends the appointment and and performance: any issues which arose during the course reappointment of the Companys external auditors and of the audit and their resolution: key accounting and audit annually reviews a formal letter provided by the external judgements: errors identi ed during the audit: and the auditors con rming their independence and objectivity recommendations made to management by the auditors within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and managements response.
The total fees paid to  in the year  LLP have been the Companys ended 31 July 2009 were 13.4 million 2008: 9.2 million, auditors for many years.
The Committee is satis ed that of which 8.5 million 2008: 5.0 million related to non-audit their effectiveness and independence has not considered it work.
2.8 million of the non-audit work fees were pursuant to necessary to require an independent tender process.
To help work required in relation to the share placing and rights issue.
reach this conclusion, an exercise was recently carried out, Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year which included cost comparisons, to assure the Committee ended 31 July 2009 can be found in note 3 to the financial that the auditors continue to be cost-effective.
The Committee monitors the rotation of key partners within The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups the external auditors from time to time in accordance with internal audit function, including its terms of reference, UK regulations.
The Committee also scrutinises all proposals audit plans, general performance and its relationship with for non-audit work which is to be performed by the external the external auditors.
Throughout the year, the Committee auditors for the Company, to ensure that the provision of reviewed the internal audit functions plans and its those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the achievements against such plans.
The Committee considered external auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit impair their objectivity or independence.
Under the policy, the function and considered the adequacy of managements external auditors cannot be engaged to perform any of the response to matters raised, including the time taken to resolve following services: any such matters.
The Committee carried out its annual book-keeping services related to accounting records or review to consider the effectiveness of the internal audit financial statements: function using guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and the Institute of Internal design and implementation of financial information systems: Auditors UK.
appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of contributions in kind reports: the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies actuarial services: and practices, standards of risk management and risk management procedures and compliance controls as well internal audit outsourcing services: as the Companys statements on internal controls before management functions including human resources: they are agreed by the Board for each years Annual Report.
The Board retains overall responsibility for internal control and broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking for the identi cation and management of business risk.
services: or The Companys whistle-blowing policy, which is an extension legal and other services unrelated to the audit.
of the Group-wide Code of Ethics, gives details of the The policy requires pre-approval by the Committee of any international con dential telephone reporting hotlines which non-audit work subject to maximum budget levels.
are operated on behalf of the Company by an independent The external auditors provide audit-related services such third party.
The hotlines are a con dential means for as regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities employees to notify any concerns about actual or potential relating to shareholder or other circulars.
The external auditors breaches of law or company policy, including in relation to report to the Committee any material departures from accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters.
All matters reported are investigated and Group accounting policies and procedures that they identify reported to the Committee.
Statistics on the volume and during the course of their audit work.
Within the constraints general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the of applicable UK Ethical Standards, the external auditors Committee on an annual basis.
A copy of the Groups undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on Code of Ethics is available on the Companys website at tax matters given their in-depth knowledge of the Groups www.
The provision of non-audit services within such Wolseley plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued Meetings attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during the year: Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Number of meetings held eligible to Audit eligible to Remuneration eligible to Nominations eligible to during the year to 31 July 2009 Board attend Committee attend Committee attend Committee attend G Davis 11 12 4 5 5 5 6 6 a A J Duff 9 12 5 5 6 6 C A S Hornsby 11 11 R H Marchbank 12 12 I K Meakins 1 1 a J I K Murray 11 12 5 5 5 6 F W Roach 12 12 N M Stein 10 12 5 5 5 5 5 6 S P Webster 12 12 a b a J W Whybrow 12 12 2 2 6 6 a Chairman.
b Mr Whybrow stepped down from the Remuneration Committee in March 2009.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Additional meetings were convened during the year at relatively short notice in relation to the share placing and rights issue.
Owing to prior overseas business commitments which could not be re-scheduled at short notice, some Directors were not able to attend certain of those meetings.
Each year the Committee critically reviews its own These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate performance and considers where improvements can be business risk: safeguard the Groups assets against material made.
This year, the performance of the Committee was also misstatement or loss: fairly report the Groups performance evaluated in detail as part of the independent performance and position: and to ensure compliance with relevant review, as referred to on page 53.
The Committees terms of legislation, regulation and best practice, including that related reference were reviewed and updated during the year.
to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material Internal audit misstatement or loss and are reviewed by the Board regularly to deal with changing circumstances.
The internal audit function is fully independent of the day-today operations of the Group.
It is involved in the assessment Summaries of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups of the quality of risk management and internal control business are given in the Performance review on pages 37 to and helps to promote and further develop effective risk 38 and in note 29 on pages 110 to 114.
Risk assessment and management within the businesses.
Certain internal audit evaluation is an integral part of the Groups annual planning assignments such as those requiring specialist expertise cycle.
Each business documents the strategic objectives and continue to be outsourced by the Head of Internal Audit the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control to KPMG LLP as required.
A policy has been established and, as part of this review, each business area and function regarding the recruitment of staff from both KPMG LLP and has been required to identify and document each signi cant  LLP.
The Head of Internal Audit risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented attends all Audit Committee meetings in addition to having to manage, monitor and report to management on the regular meetings with the chairman of that Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews key performance indicators Group operating companies also submit risk management relating to the activity of the department.
and internal control representation letters biannually to the Chief Financial Of cer, with comments on the control Internal control environment within their operations.
The Chief Financial Of cer In a decentralised Group, where local management has summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, and the Executive Committee.
The chairman of the Audit a well designed system of internal control is necessary to Committee reports to the Board on any matters which have safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys arisen from the Committees review of the way in which assets.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the the risk management and internal control processes have Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their been applied, or any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these effectiveness.
In accordance with the guidance set out in procedures.
These processes have been in place throughout the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors the year ended 31 July 2009 and have continued to the date on the Combined Code, an ongoing process has been of this report.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks Groups system of internal control for the year under review faced by the Group, including reputational risk, and this has the principal control structures and processes in place across been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on the Group are described in more detail below.
which the financial statements were approved and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
56 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Control processes Substantial share interests The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives annually At the date of this report the Company had received and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light noti cation of the following material shareholdings pursuant to of these.
Control is exercised at Group, continental, cluster the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: and subsidiary board level through monthly monitoring of Number of Percentage of performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts and cash shares held issued voting targets and by regular visits to Group companies by the Name millions share capital Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer and continental Axa S. A.
The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval of investment, acquisition and disposal projects, with UBS Global Asset Management 15.67 5.522 designated levels of authority, supported by post-investment Traditional review processes for major acquisitions or disposals and Legal & General Group Plc L&G 11.42 4.023 capital expenditure.
The Board takes account of social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Groups Communication with shareholders businesses when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have The Company places considerable importance on on the shortand long-term value of the Company.
communication with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The Company has regular dialogue with Risk management institutional shareholders and meetings with shareholder representatives and promotes communication with private Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups shareholders through attendance at the Annual General system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, Meeting.
The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial it has delegated responsibility for the risk management Of cer are closely involved in investor relations and a senior process and internal control programme to the Chief Financial executive has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
The detailed review of the risk management process The views of our major shareholders are reported to the Board and internal control has been delegated to the Audit by the Chief Financial Of cer and by the Chairman and are Committee.
During the financial year, the risk management discussed at its meetings.
A key topic of discussion during programme was improved throughout the Group, with the the year was the Companys capital raising transaction, which introduction of an upgraded risk assessment and reporting was successfully completed in April 2009, following approval process.
This provides a more consistent analysis of risks, a by shareholders at a General Meeting held on 1 April 2009. more effective means of ensuring accountability, and a more rigorous means of measuring responses, identifying key risks Contact with institutional shareholders and with financial and reviewing risk mitigation plans.
The management team analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by written of each Group company is responsible for risk management guidelines to ensure the protection of sensitive information and internal control within its own business and for ensuring which could affect the Companys share price and which has compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
not already been made generally available to the Companys Each Group company has appointed a risk director whose shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, primary role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and management with the Groups risk management and internal policies.
The Chairman also ensures that the Board as a control programme.
Both the internal and external auditors whole maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group and, although the Non Executive Directors are not formally towards its risk management activities and the improvements asked, at present, to meet the Companys shareholders, their made have also been taken into account so as to reinforce attendance at presentations of the Annual Full and Half Year the Companys internal control procedures.
More information Results is encouraged.
on the Groups approach to risk management is set out on pages 29 to 33.
Compliance statement The Company applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of the Code for the period under review and has, throughout the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out therein.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required to review whether the above statement re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Code speci ed for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not re ect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Wolseley plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued The Groups Half Year and Annual Final Results, as well as all Directors responsibility announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website, www.
statement During the year, the Company issued regular updates to the market and these, together with copies of presentations to The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual analysts and interviews with the Group Chief Executive and Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the financial Chief Financial Of cer, are also posted on the Companys statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be statements for each financial year.
Under that law the accessed via the Companys website at www.
com Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial or via Shareview, an internet service offered by the Companys statements in accordance with International Financial Registrars, as detailed in Shareholder information on page 146.
Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all Union, and the parent company financial statements in shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be Accounting Practice UK GAAP United Kingdom proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company to the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which they law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of it is standard practice to have the Senior Independent the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Director and the chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and pro t or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Some questions may not be answered at the meeting, should required to: they not be in the interests of the Company, involve the disclosure of con dential information or would not be to the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them good order of the meeting.
The Chairman may also nominate consistently: a Company representative to answer a speci c question make judgements and accounting estimates that are after the Annual General Meeting or refer the response to reasonable and prudent: the Companys website.
The proxy votes received for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions which may state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union be recorded on the proxy form accompanying the Notice and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been of Meeting, are counted before the Annual General Meeting followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the results are made available at the meeting after and explained in the Group and parent company financial shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of statements respectively: and hands.
The results are also announced to the London Stock prepare the Group and parent company financial statements Exchange and are published on the Companys website on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Annual General Meeting resolutions accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company to be held on 18 November 2009, together with explanatory and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial notes, appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply has been posted to each shareholder.
This document is also with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group available on the Companys website at www.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 50 and 51, con rm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group: and the Performance review contained in the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
58 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
