How we behave Directors report Review of the Audit Committee for specified categories of services.
All fees are summarised periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate value Report by Paul Spencer of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level of fees for 2009 Chairman of the Audit Committee is shown in note 3 on page 159.
In line with the committees responsibility to review and appoint the external auditors and approve their Dear share owner remuneration and terms of engagement, in 2009 the committee assessed whether to tender the external audit.
uring 2009, Tim Shriver, Jeffrey Rosen and Having monitored Deloittes independence, objectivity Colin Day were my colleagues on the committee.
and performance in 2009 as in prior years since Deloittes D We held eight meetings during the year, which were original appointment in 2002, with reference to a detailed also attended by invitation for all or part of any meeting by assessment prepared by the director of internal audit and the external auditors, the Companys chairman, the Group frequent reports during the year from Deloitte covering, inter finance director, the senior independent director, the director alia, their team and required audit partner rotation plans, of internal audit, the Group chief counsel, deputy Group the overall audit strategy and the progress and results of the chief counsel and the Company Secretary.
Preparatory audit, the committee decided it was in the Groups and share meetings were also held with the internal and external owners interests not to tender the external audit in 2010 auditors as well as members of the Companys senior and recommends the reappointment of Deloitte.
management including the heads of the Tax, Treasury, Other work carried out by the committee in Legal and Group Reporting teams.
The committee received 2009 included: presentations from the heads of Tax, Mergers & Acquisitions, monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial IT and Corporate Responsibility.
The committee also statements and reviewing significant financial received reports from the Disclosure Committee in relation reporting judgements: to the Disclosure Committees review and work on financial reviewing internal financial control and internal reports.
The Board received regular reports on all matters audit activities: of particular significance arising at the committee meetings.
assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in respect The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed of reviewing and reporting on the systems and key elements with the Board annually and most recently in February 2010, of risk management as they affect the Group: are available for inspection on the Companys website at reviewing the Group Treasury policy with particular focus www.
com and are on display prior to and at all general on debtors, funding and the continued ability of the Group to meetings of the Company.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing financial statements: During the year, the committee and its members were reviewing reports on any material litigation involving formally assessed by the chairman of the Company for their Group companies: technical suitability to be members of the committee and also reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions strategy for the committees overall effectiveness.
The Board has and the debt financing by the Group: designated me as the committees financial expert for Sarbanesreviewing the Groups Code of Conduct and supporting Oxley Act SOX purposes and as having recent and relevant training programs: financial experience for the purposes of the Combined Code.
reviewing the Groups tax strategy: The committee has once again overseen the progress reviewing the Groups IT functions and strategy: towards compliance with Section 404 of SOX for 2009, monitoring the accounting and legal reporting through regular status reports submitted by the internal requirements, including all relevant regulations of the and external auditors.
UK Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ and the Jersey The committee received and reviewed regular reports Financial Services Commission with which the Company on both our Right to Speak helpline, which is made available must comply: and to our people to enable them to communicate confidentially in conjunction with Paul Richardson, the director on matters of concern and the actions taken in response to responsible for corporate responsibility in 2009, ensuring those calls.
systems are in place to monitor social, environmental and The committee has established a policy regarding nonethical issues which may affect the Group other than issues audit services that may be provided by the external auditors, which fall within the remit of the Compensation Committee.
which prohibits certain categories of work in line with I would like to thank my colleagues on the committee, the relevant guidance on independence, such as ethical standards head office executives and the external advisors for their help issued by the Auditing Practices Board and SOX.
Other in another challenging year.
categories of work may be provided by the auditors if it is appropriate for them to do so.
The provision of such services and associated fees are pre-approved by the committee, Paul Spencer either as individual assignments or as aggregate amounts 16 April 2010 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 113
