52 Governance Corporate Governance Report The directors of the Company remain During the year the Boards discussions A.
Directors committed to ensuring appropriate have included: A.
1 The Board corporate governance procedures are The Board of directors is responsible for embedded throughout the Group.
the Groups strategic plan leading the Group by setting its broad They base these procedures on the potential acquisitions strategic aims.
To deliver these strategic requirements of the Combined Code our health, safety and corporate aims, the Board reviews the performance on Corporate Governance adopted by responsibility performance of management, seeks to ensure that the the Financial Reporting Council FRC approval of the Group budget and necessary resources are available and that in June 2006 the Code, available on ongoing review of the Groups appropriate controls, values and standards the FRCs website www.
uk, plus financial performance are in place.
In pursuance of the Groups current and emerging best practice.
the Groups financial results strategy, the Board has delegated the This report sets out our commitment to and dividends normal operational management of the corporate governance, how the principles our corporate governance framework Group to our chief executive, Keith Clarke, of the Code have been applied and the shareholder matters but has agreed a formal schedule of extent of our compliance with the Code.
our employees, succession planning and matters reserved solely for its decision.
the Groups pension plan arrangements This schedule includes strategy, the the share buyback programme, approval of Financial Statements and announced in November 2007. shareholder circulars, treasury policy, major capital investments, risk The Board has a schedule of regular management strategy and significant meetings and holds further meetings acquisitions and disposals.
In addition, directors meet as members of committees.
Table 1 sets out the name of each Board member, their attendance at meetings and those Board Table 1 committees of which they were a member Audit Remuneration Nomination during the year ended 31 March 2009.
Director Board Committee Committee Committee The biographical details for these directors, and Heath Drewett who was appointed since this date, are contained in a separate Chairman section of the Annual Report pages 46 Ed Wallis 13 13 6 6 2 2 and 47.
The chairman and non-executive directors also meet without the executive Executive directors directors present at least annually.
Keith Clarke 13 13 2 2 Alun Griffiths 13 13 Each Board committee has terms of Robert MacLeod 13 13 reference which are reviewed annually by the Board and revised as deemed Independent non-executive directors necessary and appropriate.
Copies are Admiral the Lord Boyce 13 13 6 6 2 2 available on the Groups website Fiona Clutterbuck 13 13 4 4 2 2 www.
com or on request 3 Joanne Curin 3 3 1 1 from the company secretary.
Following 1 James Morley 12 13 4 4 6 6 2 2 formal consideration the Board may, 3 Raj Rajagopal 10 10 1 1 on occasion, delegate authority to a 2 standing committee consisting of any Sir Peter Williams 12 13 4 4 6 6 2 2 two directors to facilitate final sign-off for an agreed course of action within Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
One meeting was called to discuss a specific matter where Mr Morley had a potential conflict of interest and so he absented himself from the meeting with the agreement of the Board.
One meeting was called at short notice and coincided with a prior engagement.
The appointment of Joanne Curin and Raj Rajagopal to the Nomination Committee took effect after all meetings in the year ended 31 March 2009 had taken place.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 53 A.
4 Appointments to the Board It is the Groups policy that the roles of Each of the non-executive directors has The Nomination Committee currently chairman and chief executive are separate, been determined by the Board to be comprises Ed Wallis committee chairman, with their roles and responsibilities clearly independent of management and to have Keith Clarke, Lord Boyce, Fiona Clutterbuck, defined, divided and recorded.
no business or other relationship that Joanne Curin, James Morley, Raj Rajagopal could interfere materially with the exercise and Sir Peter Williams.
The Committees The chairmans main responsibility is of their judgement.
The independence of responsibilities include: the leadership and management of the the non-executive directors is considered Board and its governance.
Our chairman, at least annually and is based on the reviewing the structure, size and Ed Wallis, usually spends two days per criteria suggested in the Code.
composition of the Board week on the business of the Group.
identifying and nominating candidates His other significant commitments are The senior independent director is James for appointment to the Board and disclosed in his biography page 46.
Lord Boyce will succeed him as ensuring orderly succession Board considers that these commitments senior independent director when he making recommendations to the Board do not hinder his ability to discharge his retires from the Board on 30 June 2009. regarding the continuing service of responsibilities to the Company effectively.
The responsibilities of the senior directors and their re-election or independent director include leading otherwise to the Board.
The chief executive is responsible for the the non-executive directors annual leadership and day-to-day management consideration of the chairmans The Committees terms of reference are of the Group.
He is also available to available for review on the Companys and recommending the Groups strategy shareholders in the event they feel it website or on request from the company for Board approval in addition to inappropriate to communicate via the secretary.
The non-executive directors executing the approved strategy.
chairman, the chief executive or the terms of appointment are available for Group finance director.
inspection at the Companys registered The chief executive has chosen to office during normal business hours and discharge his responsibilities for the Directors conflicts of interest at the Companys Annual General operational management of the business At the 2008 AGM shareholder approval Meeting AGM.
through the Group Executive, his was given to amend the Companys executive team.
Its members currently Articles of Association to include During the year, the Committee comprise the managing directors of our provisions for dealing with directors recommended the appointments of principal businesses, the Group finance conflicts of interests in accordance with Raj Rajagopal and Joanne Curin as director, the Group HR director and the the new regime introduced by the non-executive directors with effect from Group communications director.
In advance of 24 June 2008 and 10 February 2009 meets regularly during the year.
Those commencement of the new regime the respectively.
Details relating to Raj members of the Group Executive who are Board considered and, where appropriate, Rajagopals appointment were disclosed not directors of the Company are invited authorised potential conflicts of interest in the Companys 2008 Annual Report.
to attend four Board meetings each year for all existing directors.
When directors Joanne Curin was advised prior to her and to meet the non-executive directors are appointed to the Board they are appointment of the time commitment informally without the executive required to notify the company secretary considered necessary to enable her to directors present.
of any potential conflicts of interest and fulfil her responsibilities.
The Committee these are then considered and authorised also recommended the appointment of The respective roles of the Board and by the Board as appropriate.
As potential Heath Drewett as an executive director Group Executive are discussed further conflicts of interest arise, directors are with effect from 15 June 2009, shortly in relation to internal control pages 54 required to notify the company secretary prior to him assuming the role of Group to 56. of these interests so that they can be finance director from Robert MacLeod considered and authorised by the Board on 19 June 2009. as appropriate.
In addition, the Company has put in place an annual process to review conflict authorisations.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 54 Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued The Board believes that Joanne Curin All directors have access to the advice B. Remuneration and Heath Drewett will be considerable and services of the company secretary Details on the directors remuneration assets to the Company, bringing their and are entitled to receive independent and the work of the Remuneration experience to bear as we continue to professional advice, at the Companys Committee, as required by the Code develop the business.
External search expense, as required.
and the Directors Remuneration Report consultancies were used to assist in Regulations 2002, can be found in the making both appointments.
6 Performance evaluation Directors Remuneration Report The Board, as part of its commitment pages 58 to 64.
5 Information and professional to ensuring its effectiveness, carried out development an evaluation of its performance and C. Accountability and audit The company secretary, under the processes during the year.
Each director chairmans direction, is responsible for completed a confidential survey regarding C. 1 Financial reporting ensuring that information flows within the performance of the Board as a whole, All shareholder communications are and between the Board, its committees, which was followed by a private meeting designed to present a balanced and the non-executive directors and senior with the chairman to discuss both the understandable view of the Groups management function effectively.
The Boards performance and that of the position and prospects.
Statements company secretary is also responsible director.
The recommendations arising regarding directors responsibilities and for advising the Board on all from this process have been considered the status of the business as a going governance matters.
by the Board and appropriate actions concern are given in the Directors Report were identified and have been pages 48 and 51.
On joining the Board, directors take part implemented.
During the year, the Audit in a formal induction process.
This Committee and Remuneration Committee C. 2 Internal control includes the provision of past Board also completed formal assessments of The Board is responsible for reviewing materials to provide background their performance and processes in the and approving the Groups system of information on the Group, information form of surveys completed by members internal controls and its adequacy and on Board processes and governance, site and key stakeholders.
This established system visits and meetings with key employees.
of internal controls includes financial, The induction is tailored to each new The chairmans performance was reviewed operational and compliance controls and directors specific needs.
Raj Rajagopal by the non-executive directors, led by risk management.
It is the task of and Joanne Curin received a detailed the senior independent director.
management to implement the agreed induction programme which included policies on risk and control.
meetings with each member of the Group A.
Heath Drewett will also be In accordance with the Companys Articles Our system of internal financial and provided with a comprehensive induction of Association, one-third of the Board is operational controls is designed to meet to the Group.
required to retire by rotation each year.
the Groups particular needs and aims to In addition, any director appointed since facilitate effective and efficient operations, A continuing professional development the last AGM will stand for re-appointment to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure framework is in place to assist the at the AGM.
These requirements ensure proper accounting records are maintained chairman, executive directors and that each Board member is re-elected at and ensure that the financial information non-executive directors in discharging regular intervals.
used within the business and for their responsibilities effectively following publication is reliable.
Our risk appointment to the Board.
All management process identifies the key non-executive directors meet regularly risks facing each business and reports with members of the Group Executive.
to the Board on how those risks are Key employees are also invited to being managed.
attend Board dinners during the year and this, together with the presentations and site visits, helps ensure the nonexecutive directors remain informed of business developments.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 55 Such a system of internal control can their businesses with the support of Business conduct policy only be designed to manage rather than senior managers.
The Board determines The Board is responsible for the Groups eliminate risk of failure to achieve business how the chief executive operates within business conduct policy.
The Group objectives and can provide reasonable, a framework of delegated authorities believes that integrity is a fundamental but not absolute, assurance against and reserved powers which seek to prerequisite for successful business material misstatement and loss.
ensure that certain transactions, relationships, both internally and significant in terms of their size or type, externally.
Reputation, trust and The Board has a process for identifying, are undertaken only after Board review.
confidence are essential elements that evaluating and managing the risks we we seek to protect and enhance for the face.
That process is continual and has Control environment benefit of all those with whom we have been in place for the year under review Our operational structure has clearly a relationship.
The Group seeks to up to and including the date of this documented and communicated understand and meet its customers report.
This process covers subsidiaries in principles of delegation of authority and needs, whilst striving for continuous which the Group has an interest of 50% segregation of duties.
Across the Group there or more.
Joint Ventures in which we do management systems include financial are procedures in place that seek to not have overall control are not treated, policies and procedures, corporate and underpin this approach.
By so doing for these purposes, as part of the Group.
business quality assurance manuals, the Group aims to meet the needs For these Joint Ventures, systems of health and safety procedures and of all stakeholders.
internal control are applied as agreed environmental management procedures.
between the parties to the venture.
These procedures are subject to review Individual business controls The Audit Committee formally reviews to ensure that improvements to enhance Individual businesses and central the operation and effectiveness of the controls can be made.
corporate functions complete an annual Groups system of internal controls on an self-certification statement.
The latest review covered Financial reporting managers personally confirm the review the financial year to 31 March 2009 and The Board approves a strategic plan of their systems of internal control and included the period to the approval of the and annual budgets for the Group.
their compliance with Group policies.
Directors Report and Financial Statements The financial performance of individual The statement also requires the by the Board.
business segments is reported regularly reporting of any significant control and compared to annual budgets.
issues that have emerged so that areas Key features of our system of internal We report to our shareholders on a of Group concern may be identified and control are as follows: half-yearly basis.
Forecasts for the addressed and experience shared.
The Group are updated and reviewed by results of the process are reviewed by Group organisation and culture the Board regularly.
the Audit Committee and reported to By its statements and actions the Board the Board.
emphasises a culture of integrity, Project and contract control competence, fairness and responsibility.
Procedures seek to ensure that risks Functional speciality reporting are identified throughout the project The Board assesses the risks facing the The Board focuses mainly on strategic lifecycle from bidding to completion.
business on an ongoing basis and has issues, senior management performance Regular review procedures are in place identified a number of other key areas and financial performance.
Our chief to ensure that issues are reported to the that are subject to regular reporting to executive and the Group Executive, as Board appropriately.
A commercial risk the Board such as health and safety, his senior executive team, concentrate and audit framework is in place that environment, human resources, tax on operational performance, operational requires peer review to be carried out and treasury.
decision-making and the formulation of for all significant bids and opportunities strategic proposals to the Board.
The or where significant investment Groups managing directors manage decisions have to be taken.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 56 Governance Corporate Governance Report Continued Risk management review C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors The Committee meets the independent The Board assesses risk management During the year the Audit Committee external auditors and head of internal throughout the Group, aided by the comprised James Morley Committee audit privately at each scheduled meeting.
Group Risk Committee and detailed chairman, Fiona Clutterbuck, Joanne The independent external auditors reviews of internal controls and risk Curin and Sir Peter Williams.
Joanne and head of internal audit also have management.
The Group risk Curin, a chartered accountant, will unrestricted access to the Committee management framework requires succeed James Morley as Committee and its chairman.
businesses to record formally all chairman when he retires on significant risks facing their business and 30 June 2009.
All members of the The Committee monitors the costdetail the steps being taken to avoid or Committee are considered by the Board effectiveness of audit and non-audit work mitigate those risks.
A summary of the to be independent and to have recent performed by the independent auditors key risks facing the Group is placed on and relevant financial experience.
The and also considers the potential impact, a risk register which is reviewed regularly Committees terms of reference are if any, of this work on independence.
by the Audit Committee and the Board.
available for review on the Groups Approval is required prior to the auditors website.
The Committees activities commencing any material non-audit work The Group maintains insurance policies have included: in accordance with the Group policy.
The to provide protection from losses arising policy identifies certain non-audit work through claims from clients.
The an assessment of the effectiveness that may be awarded with the approval adequacy of the Groups insurance of the Companys system of internal of the executive directors whereas other cover, including arrangements within the control, risk management process work requires specific approval of the captive insurance company, is reviewed and the Groups employee disclosure Committee.
arrangements The Committee also regulates the a detailed review of the internal appointment of former employees of the Internal audit audit plan external audit firm to positions in the The internal audit function undertakes regular examination of the reports Group.
The Committee regularly reviews a programme to address internal control arising from the work undertaken by all fees for non-audit work paid to the and risk management processes with the internal audit function independent external auditors.
Details particular reference to the Turnbull a review of the continued independence of these fees can be found in note 5 to guidance.
Its conclusions are of the external auditors including their the Financial Statements page 87. communicated to the relevant level audit and non-audit work, together with of management and the function has the adoption of an updated policy with The independent external auditors also a direct reporting responsibility to the respect to the engagement of the operate procedures designed to safeguard Audit Committee.
external auditor for non-audit work their objectivity and independence.
These a review of the independent external include the periodic rotation of audit auditors audit plan and their findings partner, use of independent concurring in relation to the annual report and partners, use of a technical review panel half-year report where appropriate and annual a review of the Companys draft independence confirmations by all staff.
annual report, half-year results and The independent external auditors report associated announcements focusing to the Committee on matters including on key judgemental areas and independence and non-audit work on accounting policies an annual basis.
an appraisal of its own effectiveness and that of the internal and independent external auditors.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 57 D. 2 Constructive use of the AGM D. Relations with shareholders All our shareholders are invited to attend D. 1 Dialogue with institutional the Companys AGM, at which all shareholders directors are present.
We seek to The Board regards communication encourage shareholder participation with shareholders as key.
Relations by enabling proxy votes to be lodged with shareholders are managed mainly online via our share portal, by the chief executive and Group finance www.
Meetings are held regularly throughout the year with institutional Statement of compliance investors, fund managers and analysts.
with the Combined Code The Groups website contains information on current activities including the annual Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009 and half-year results presentations.
the Company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code.
It also complied The chairman also writes to our with the Combined Code on Corporate institutional investors annually to reinforce Governance adopted by the Financial our commitment to open, ongoing Reporting Council in June 2008, although dialogue.
The senior independent director the Company is not obliged to do so until and other non-executive directors, along the financial year ending 31 March 2010. with the chairman, make themselves available for meetings with major Approved by the Board and signed on shareholders, the chairman particularly its behalf by being available to discuss governance.
This enables shareholders to take up with these individuals any issue they feel unable Richard Webster to raise with the chief executive or Group Company Secretary finance director.
16 June 2009 The non-executive directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders with the executive directors providing updates on investor meetings.
The Groups broker provides briefings to the Board on shareholder opinions and compiles independent feedback from investor meetings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
