Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance corporate governance Introduction The operational management of Xchanging is delegated to the Xchanging plc remains committed to ensuring high standards Xchanging Management Board XMB.
The composition of the of corporate governance.
The areas of non-compliance outlined XMB is set out on pages 32 and 33. in last years annual report have all been addressed with effect from September 2009 and, following changes made to the Board composition and structure composition of the Board and its committees, as explained Following Tom Tinsleys resignation on 10 September 2009, below, Xchanging now applies all provisions set out in the the Board comprised a non-Executive chairman, nigel Rich: 1 combined code 2008 code.
The areas of non-compliance the chief Executive Officer, david andrews: the chief Financial with the code, until all changes were completed in 2009, Officer, Richard houghton: and four other non-Executive are set out below.
directors: dennis Millard the Senior independent director : Stephen Brenninkmeijer: Johannes Maret and pat Odriscoll.
The Board and Committees On 1 January 2010, Michel paulin was appointed to the Board The Board and its committees consist of directors with the as an additional non-Executive director.
appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the group.
The Board is collectively responsible The roles of the chairman and the chief Executive Officer are to shareholders for creating and sustaining shareholder segregated and the division of responsibilities between the two value through the management of the groups businesses.
roles has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
it sets the groups strategic plan and budgets, monitors their implementation and, with the assistance of the audit The Board has reviewed the independence of all non-Executive committee, ensures that executive management maintain a directors and determined that all remain independent except system of internal operational, financial and regulatory controls for Johannes Maret.
This is due to Johannes Maret being a that identify and manage appropriately the risks set out on consultant to Xchanging gmbh, a group company, since June page 24.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 2003. nonetheless, the Board believe that Johannes Maret reserved for its decision, including the approval of half year and continues to provide essential insight and advice on the german full year financial statements, significant changes in accounting financial services industry a key market for Xchanging.
policy and practice, the appointment or removal of directors or Stephen Brenninkmeijer has been a director of Xchangings the company Secretary, changes to the groups capital structure, parent company first, Xchanging BV and then, from 27 april investments, contracts, acquisitions, mergers and disposals.
2007, Xchanging plc for more than nine years.
nonetheless, following a formal performance evaluation as described below, Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board the Board has determined that Stephen continues to be effective sub-committees which operate within clearly defined terms and to demonstrate commitment to the role, and on careful of reference.
consideration believe that Stephen remains independent in character and judgement.
consequently, since Tom Tinsleys details of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the resignation on 10 September 2009, the Board has been responsibilities delegated to the Board committees can be found compliant with provision a.
3.2 of the code relating to on the groups website.
Governance structure at 1 March 2010 Board of Directors Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Social Audit Committee Responsibility Committee Dennis Millard Chairman Nigel Rich Chairman Pat ODriscoll Chairman Stephen Brenninkmeijer David Andrews Stephen Brenninkmeijer Stephen Brenninkmeijer Pat ODriscoll Stephen Brenninkmeijer Dennis Millard Chairman Michel Paulin Dennis Millard pages 47 to 53 pages 28 to 30 Pat ODriscoll pages 43 and 44 Michel Paulin page 44 1 The combined code can be found at www.
uk corporate combinedcode X c h a n g i ng plc 41 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance corporate governance continued dennis Millard was appointed as Senior independent director Sid at the 11 January 2009 Board meeting.
however, for the period between nigel Rich becoming chairman at the May 2008 agM and the appointment of dennis Millard as Sid, there was no designated Senior independent director.
consequently, the company was not compliant with provision a.
3.3 of the code for this period.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings The table below shows the number of Board and audit, Remuneration, nominations and corporate Social Responsibility cSR committee meetings held during 2009 excluding ad hoc meetings held to deal with procedural matters, and the attendance of directors at such meetings.
The absence of a director from a Board or committee meeting was due to illness or an absence previously agreed with the chairman of the Board or relevant committee chairman.
Board audit nominations Remuneration cSR meetings committee meetings committee meetings committee meetings committee meetings Scheduled meetings 9 5 3 5 4 nigel Rich 9 n a 3 n a n a david andrews 9 n a 3 n a n a Stephen Brenninkmeijer 9 5 3 5 4 Richard houghton 9 n a n a n a n a Johannes Maret 8 n a n a n a n a dennis Millard 9 5 3 5 n a 1 Tom Tinsley 4 n a n a 2 n a pat Odriscoll 9 5 3 5 n a 1 Resigned 10 September 2009 Directors induction, training and information Board conflicts The Board has a full induction programme for all new Under Xchangings articles of association, the Board is directors.
The directors receive ongoing updates to improve empowered to authorise matters giving rise to directors actual their knowledge and enable them to discharge their duties.
or potential conflicts of interest.
pursuant to such power, each For example, during 2009, Board members received director has completed and returned a detailed form listing presentations on the various changes to the law under the all other positions held e. g. directorships and detailing any companies act 2006. other conflict situations that each thought required prior Board authorisation.
Each directors disclosure was reviewed by the directors receive written reports prior to each Board meeting Board and any potential conflict of interest was approved where which enable them to make an informed decision on the issues relevant for example, in relation to Johannes Marets incentive under consideration.
in addition to formal Board meetings, the arrangements under his consultancy arrangements with chairman maintains regular contact with the chief Executive Xchanging gmbh.
in each such situation, the director under Officer and chief Financial Officer to discuss specific issues.
The consideration did not vote on the matter.
The Board reviewed company Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board on matters and approved the latest register of directors conflicts at the concerning governance and ensures Board procedures are december 2009 Board meeting and will continue to review the complied with.
all directors have access to his advice and during conflict authorisations annually to ensure the authorisations, and 2009, this was sought from time-to-time.
directors may also any conditions attached to them, are appropriate for the relevant take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The company Secretary maintains a list of all authorisations granted to directors, setting out the date of authorisation and its expiry, scope and any limitations.
42 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Board performance evaluation The non-Executive directors Service agreements for nigel Rich, during 2009, actions were taken to address the findings of dennis Millard, Johannes Maret and Stephen Brenninkmeijer the 2008 Board evaluation: principal amongst them being to all expire in april 2010. conditional upon each director being seek an additional non-Executive director and to deepen the re-appointed at the 2010 agM, the intention is that Stephen Boards knowledge of Xchangings business operations and Brenninkmeijers agreement be renewed for a fixed one-year its material risks.
Michel paulin was appointed as a new nonterm and any further one-year renewals reviewed by the Board Executive director on 1 January 2010 and Board meetings are prior to the next agM, and that the three others be renewed now scheduled to be held in each of the regional hubs, where for a further three-year fixed term.
the Board meet the senior regional management teams and are briefed on their respective business operations and material risks.
Board Committees The evaluation of the Board and its committees in 2009 was The group Board has established audit, nominations, conducted under the leadership of the chairman.
Each director Remuneration and cSR committees.
The committees have all completed a detailed questionnaire covering their assessment of reviewed their terms of reference for the 2009 year end, and the the Board structure the content and functionality of meetings, changes recommended to the Board have been accepted.
The corporate governance and interaction with management and minutes of committee meetings are sent to all directors and oral Board committee members reviewed the activities of each updates are given at Board meetings.
committee against the actions required by their terms of reference.
Formal evaluation of the performance of the Executive Audit Committee director is undertaken annually by the chief Executive Officer.
The audit committee is chaired by dennis Millard, who is The non-Executive directors, led by the Sid, met separately to also the Sid and is considered to have recent and relevant evaluate the performance of the chairman, who then joined financial experience.
them to evaluate the performance of the chief Executive Officer.
The performance of the non-Executive directors was The group audit committee met five times during 2009. reviewed by the chairman taking into account the views of the also in attendance, by invitation, were the group chairman, other directors.
the chief Financial Officer, the group Financial controller, the chief Executive Officer, the head of group internal audit and Following the 2009 Board evaluation, the company Secretary the external auditors for specific matters.
Both the head of held interviews with each of the directors, the details of which group internal audit and the external auditors have access were included in a report, prepared by the company Secretary to, and met periodically with, the audit committee chairman in conjunction with the chairman and presented to the February outside of formal committee meetings.
Based on this assessment it is considered that the Board is operating effectively, and is now in full compliance The committee maintains a formal schedule of items to be with the code.
considered at each meeting to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of the code.
Key items considered during Election and re-appointment of Directors 2009 include the review of key accounting policies: material all directors are subject to re-election at the annual general judgements: quality of earnings and estimates: scope of work Meeting agM at intervals of no more than three years.
in and findings of the 2009 internal and external audits: half year compliance with this requirement, nigel Rich, Johannes Maret, and full year financial statements: risk register process: non-audit dennis Millard and Richard houghton will retire by rotation and services: results from Enterprise partnership audit committee seek re-appointment at the agM on 27 april 2010.
Stephen meetings: and the effectiveness of internal control and risk Brenninkmeijer was re-elected to the Board at 22 May 2008 management systems.
however, Stephen has served as a director of Xchangings parent company for more than nine years, and so will seek The group audit committee reviews the groups annual report re-election at the next agM as well.
Michel paulin was and accounts, as well as reports from the external auditors appointed to the Board at the december 2009 Board meeting identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring and so will also seek re-election at the next agM.
in its July 2009 and February 2010 meetings, above, the performance of each director seeking re-election the committee approved the half year and full year financial except Michel paulin given his recent appointment has been statements respectively, and confirmed agreement with key formally reviewed and in each case remains satisfactory.
The accounting policies and material judgements.
reasons to support their election re-election are set out in the Board biographies on pages 34 and 35.
X c h a n g i ng plc 43 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance corporate governance continued Reports summarising internal audit activities and key matters in addition to the group audit committee, each UK Enterprise of control are presented at each meeting by the head of group partnership Ep has its own audit committee whose members internal audit.
in 2009, the committee reviewed managements and chairman are independent of the Ep.
Such committees progress against actions throughout the year, agreeing the are attended by Xchangings partners, nominated Xchanging appropriateness of key recommendations made.
in addition, Executive directors and senior Ep management.
The head of the committee reviews and approves both internal and external group internal audit attends Ep audit committees on a regular audits plans for the coming year.
The plan for external audits basis.
Ep audit committees have similar terms of reference to 2009 year end audit was approved in October 2009 and internal the group audit committee.
in continental Europe, Xchanging audits plan for 2010 was approved in december 2009.
Transaction Bank XTB and Fondsdepot Bank FdB have Shareholder committees attended by representatives from The committee receives updates from the head of group Xchangings partners and nominated Xchanging Executive internal audit and Executive directors on the subject of risk and directors.
Key issues and the minutes of each Ep meeting are the processes employed to both identify and mitigate the risks.
reported to the group audit committee.
The chairman of the in december 2009, the committee reviewed the changes to group audit committee meets with the chairmen of the the latest group risk register and concluded that the process Ep audit committees as appropriate.
undertaken to identify and mitigate risks was effective.
Nominations Committee in February 2010, the committee conducted its annual The group nominations committee comprised five Board assessment of the suitability and performance of the external members: nigel Rich committee chairman, Stephen auditors in making its recommendation to the Board for their Brenninkmeijer, dennis Millard, david andrews and pat re-appointment.
in addition, to ensure that the objectivity and Odriscoll.
Throughout the year, the majority of the committee independence of the audit is not compromised, a review is has been independent non-Executive directors.
The committee undertaken of the level of non-audit services provided by the leads the process for all Board appointments, reviewing external auditors and safeguards are put in place such as: candidates and making a final recommendation to the Board.
adherence to a detailed policy for non-audit services The most recent example was the search for a new independent prohibiting the use of auditors for certain services and for non-Executive director, leading to the appointment of Michel permissible services, defining clear guidelines and safeguards paulin to the Board and nominations committee on 1 January to be put in place with defined approval levels based on 2010.
The process involved the committee retaining the services materiality and nature of the service of an independent search consultancy to source potential seeking confirmation that the auditors are, in their candidates.
The committee meets as and when required.
professional judgement, independent of the company during 2009, it met three times in May, October and december.
obtaining from the external auditors an account of all relationships with the company and considering whether, The committees broader role remains to assist the Board taken as a whole, the various relationships between the in discharging its responsibilities relating to the structure, company and the external auditors impair, or appear to composition and size of the Board.
impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
44 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Remuneration Committee Internal control and risk management The group Remuneration committee is chaired by pat Odriscoll.
The Board is responsible for regularly reviewing the operation details of its composition, role and activities are given in the and effectiveness of the groups internal controls.
The internal Remuneration report on pages 47 to 53. control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide The Remuneration committee believed that Tom Tinsley reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material errors, continued to provide valuable knowledge and experience to losses or fraud.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring, and proceedings up to his resignation from the Board.
as he was not has satisfied itself through the half-yearly risk summary report, considered to be an independent non-Executive director, the that appropriate systems are in place to enable it to identify, company did not comply with provision B.
2.1 of the code, from assess and manage key risks.
1 January 2009 until Tom Tinsleys resignation on 10 September 2009, which states that all members of the committee are The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal independent non-Executive directors.
The company is now control systems for 2009 and the period prior to approval of in compliance with this provision of the code.
The review was undertaken by the audit committee and its findings were reported to the Board by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee audit committee chairman at the 15 december 2009 and The cSR committee is chaired by Stephen Brenninkmeijer.
it considered all material details of its composition, role and activities are given in the controls in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
no significant cSR section on pages 28 to 31. failings or weaknesses were identified during this review and the Board confirms that the necessary actions are in place to remedy Whistle-blowing policy any less than significant ones.
The groups key internal control The group is committed to the highest standards of openness, and risk management procedures include the following: probity and accountability.
a group-wide whistle-blowing policy reviews of the groups strategy and the performance of has been established to enable employees to voice concerns principal subsidiaries and Eps through a comprehensive in a responsible and effective manner, without fear of reprisal.
system of reporting based on variances to annual budgets, The whistle-blowing policy was last reviewed and approved by key performance indicators and regular forecasting the Board at the december 2009 Board meeting.
Employees well-defined group policies and processes, communicated can communicate concerns in confidence about any possible through the group Financial Reporting procedures Manual improprieties or other matters, through a dedicated email and intranet portal and a strict process governing the address, to which only the head of group internal audit and approval of sales opportunities and capital expenditure the group company Secretary have access.
a defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation of authority Reported concerns are investigated at the earliest opportunity formal authorisation procedures for all investments with by the head of group internal audit, the group company clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria Secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the respective Xchangings authority to invest process business.
The head of group internal audit reports to the formal authorisation procedures for all significant sales chairman of the group audit committee on the concerns raised opportunities, with clear guidelines on success criteria and any action taken.
Xchangings sales opportunities approval process including authority to proceed and contract a monthly review by the Xpc, a sub-committee of the XMB, of performance reports for each region.
This covers financial performance and a detailed range of qualitative information such as customer satisfaction, service levels and the quality of processes.
This identifies the key operational issues and actions required to address any deficiencies X c h a n g i ng plc 45 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance corporate governance continued the audit committee routinely monitors the internal control Communication with shareholders environment through its review of control matters from both The Board places importance on communication with internal audit and external audit and other related reports shareholders and gives them the opportunity to meet the from management chairman and directors as appropriate.
Shareholders will the work performed by the groups internal audit continue to be given the opportunity to meet the chairman department is focused on areas of greatest risk to the and directors in the coming 12 months.
arrangements can be group as identified through the risk management process made for major shareholders to meet with any newly-appointed outlined below, as well as issues identified by monthly directors.
The companys investor Relations team organises performance reporting.
internal audits objective is to provide an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between independent assurance to the Board and audit committee the chief Executive Officer and the chief Financial Officer and over operational and financial controls and to assist the institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
Board in its assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls.
The head of group internal audit reports directly Brokers reports and investor feedback are circulated to the to the chief Financial Officer, but has the right to report to Board, who discuss any key matters raised with management the audit committee chairman independently of Executive by large investors.
all significant internal audit reports are reviewed by the audit committee and made available to The companys annual general Meeting on 27 april 2010 will the external auditors provide a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate each region has a head of Quality, responsible for the quality with private investors.
We encourage shareholders to attend the of controls and processes within that sector as well as for meeting and to ask questions of any of the directors following ensuring compliance with policies and procedures, legislation the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
details of and the operation of risk management procedures.
Each proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, will be regional head of Quality reports to the regional Managing made available on request and will be placed on the companys director and attends, by invitation, the Ep audit committees website following the meeting.
Going concern The groups key risk management procedures have been in place after making enquiries, the directors consider that the group throughout 2009 and up to the date of approval of the annual and the company have adequate resources and committed report and accounts include the following: borrowing facilities to continue in operational existence for the the maintenance of a hierarchy of risk registers for each foreseeable future.
consequently, they continue to adopt the business and region, assessing the probability of key risks going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
occurring, the consequences should those risks crystallise and the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
The registers The attention of shareholders is drawn to independent auditors and mitigating actions are monitored on an ongoing basis report on page 54, which incorporates their report on within the respective region and business units management corporate governance.
The group risk register incorporates risks pervasive or material to the whole group and is reviewed at least By order of the Board annually by the XMB, the Board and the audit committee the half-yearly Board approval of the group risk summary report that collates information from risk registers, Xpc meetings and other corporate-level meetings and reports.
The group risk summary report identifies and assesses key Gary Whitaker risks and sets out management actions to address those risks company Secretary and any required Board actions.
1 March 2010 The internal control environment will continue to be monitored and reviewed by the Board which will, where necessary, ensure improvements are implemented.
