Babcock International Group PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Statement on Corporate Governance Compliance Statement The Company considers that it complied with the provisions of section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006, as updated, the Combined Code during the year under review and continues to do so.
On 1 June 2008, Mike Turner was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company and on 1 November 2008 he took over as Non-Executive Chairman from Gordon Campbell.
He previously served as a Non-Executive Director of the Company from 1996 to December 2005 and was a Director of a trading partner of the Group BAE Systems PLC.
The Board is, however, of the view that after a period of nearly three years out of office at Babcock and in light of his strength of character, robust and challenging approach and firm independence of view they can reasonably regard, and do so regard, Mr Turner as having been independent for Combined Code purposes when he was appointed Chairman.
On 9 June 2008, Dipesh Shah completed nine years service as a Non-Executive Director though none of the Executive Directors has been in post with him throughout the period since his appointment in June 1999.
He served on the Remuneration Committee as Chairman, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nominations Committee throughout the year under review, but stood down from those committees on 31 March 2009.
He will be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Although for some of the year under review he had served a little over nine years as a Director the Board continued to consider him as independent especially given the relatively short period involved.
For those who may differ from the Board in its view as to the independence of Mr Shah by virtue of his length of service, the provisions of the Code requiring a balance between independent Non-Executive Directors and non-independent Directors excluding the Chairman was not, if he is so viewed, complied with.
However, even on this view, this balance was restored on 1 April 2009 with the appointment of Sir David Omand as an additional independent Non-Executive Director.
Also, on this alternative view, the Remuneration and Audit and Risk Committees would not have consisted throughout the year under review solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, the three other members of those committees were, on any view, independent throughout the year and Mr Crookenden who was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 1 April 2009 led the 2008 9 review of executive remuneration described in the Remuneration report for the year.
The rest of this statement sets out how the principles of good governance in the Combined Code have been implemented.
Chairman and Chief Executive functions There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive which is set out in a statement of their respective roles and responsibilities approved by the Board.
A copy of this is available on the Companys website www.
Senior Independent Director Mr Rennocks is, and was throughout the year, recognised by the Board as the Senior Independent Director to whom concerns can be conveyed by shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
The Board and Board balance The Company has a Non-Executive Chairman, a non-independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and, two full-time Executive Directors.
In addition, throughout the year there were four Non-Executive Directors and since 1 April 2009, with the appointment of Sir David Omand, there have been five.
Of the current Non-Executive Directors other than the Deputy Chairman, at least four that is, half the Board excluding the Chairman are considered by the Board to be independent: Sir Nigel Essenhigh, Mr Rennocks, Mr Crookenden each of whom served throughout the year under review and Sir David Omand.
The position as regards Mr Shah, whom the Board also regarded as independent, and who is retiring from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, is explained above.
Refreshing of the Board Since the last report, the Chairmanship of the Company has changed, a new independent Non-Executive Director has been appointed, and a long-serving Non-Executive has announced his intention to retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
The other three continuing independent Non-Executive Directors have served between three and half years and seven years in office.
Directors are normally reappointed at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and subsequently have to offer themselves for reappointment at least every three years.
It is the Companys policy to review rigorously the reappointment of Non-Executive Directors who have served more than six years.
Governance 34 60 Babcock International Group PLC 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 As required by the Combined Code, the Board explains, in notes accompanying the notice of meeting on page 112, why it recommends the reappointment of the Non-Executive Directors proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Sir Nigel Essenhigh, Justin Crookenden, Lord Hesketh and Sir David Omand.
The Chairman confirms in those notes, as required by the Combined Code, that, having formally evaluated their performance, the Board is of the view that they continue to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and, where applicable, committee meetings and other duties.
Board procedures and attendance During the year to 31 March 2009, there were nine scheduled meetings and one short notice meeting of the full Board.
Attendance was as follows: Scheduled Board Short notice meetings Board meetings Director attended attended Mike Turner from 1 June 2008 8 out of 8 1 of 1 Lord Hesketh 6 out of 9 Peter Rogers 9 out of 9 1 of 1 William Tame 9 out of 9 1 of 1 John Rennocks 9 out of 9 1 of 1 Dipesh Shah 8 out of 9 1 of 1 Sir Nigel Essenhigh 9 out of 9 1 of 1 Justin Crookenden 9 out of 9 1 of 1 Gordon Campbell up to 31 October 2008 5 out of 5 1 of 1 The Board has also given authority for the holding of ad hoc meetings of any two Directors to deal with matters generally in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board, including a Finance Committee.
It also from time to time establishes special committees for specific purposes, for example in connection with specific acquisitions.
The Chairman regularly meets Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors or other managers present.
During the year, a review of the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees and individual Directors was carried out.
The Company Secretary, using as a starting point the results of an evaluation process carried out in the preceding financial year using an independent facilitator, conducted a series of individual confidential interviews with each Board member in February 2009.
The results of those interviews were reported to the Chairman and made available to and discussed by the Board.
The review concluded that the Board and its committees, and individual Directors, continued to work well and effectively.
It was agreed that strategy and succession planning should continue to be areas of particular Board focus.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated by the Remuneration Committee and was within the scope of the confidential interview process described above.
All Directors have full and timely access to information.
Change in Chairmans significant external commitments Between 1 April 2008 and his retirement from the Board on 31 October 2008 there were no changes to former Chairman Gordon Campbells significant external commitments.
Since his appointment as Chairman on 1 November 2008, there have been no changes to Mike Turners significant external commitments.
Board Committees Details of the membership and operation of the Audit and Risk Committee and its work can be found on pages 46 and 47 and of the Remuneration Committee in the Remuneration report.
Nominations Committee In the year to 31 March 2009, the Nominations Committee consisted unless otherwise stated, throughout the year of: M Turner Committee Chairman from 1 November 2008 G Campbell Committee Chairman until 31 October 2008 D J Shah J Rennocks Sir Nigel Essenhigh The Rt Hon Lord Hesketh J Crookenden Babcock International Group PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Statement on Corporate Governance continued On 1 April 2009, Sir David Omand became a member of the Committee.
Membership of this Committee is open to all the Non-Executive Directors provided that at its meetings there is a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
During the year, the Committee selected a new independent Non-Executive Director, Sir David Omand, who took office on 1 April 2009.
In recruiting Sir David the services of a leading executive search firm were used, the selection process being led on behalf of the Nominations Committee by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Discussions relating to management succession planning were held in the course of Board meetings or in meetings between the Group Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors as informal meetings of members of the Nominations Committee in the absence of executive management.
Whistle-blowing arrangements These arrangements are dealt with in the Corporate responsibility section on page 22.
Non-audit fees The Audit and Risk Committee Chairman must authorise any engagement of auditors on non-audit work that would entail their being paid fees in excess of 20% of the audit fee in any year.
Before giving that authority, he considers potential conflicts and the possibility of actual or perceived threats to the independence of the external auditors.
Authority is given only when he considers it is in the Companys interest to do so.
Contact with shareholders The Group has a full-time Head of Investor Relations whose role it is to ensure that there is regular dialogue between the Company, its principal shareholders and the wider market so that there is a clear understanding of their respective views and that investors have a good understanding of the Company and its management.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly meet institutional shareholders and analysts.
Reports of these meetings are sent to the Board, which also receives at each of its meetings an Investor Relations Report from the Head of Investor Relations.
In addition, during the year the Company commissioned from Makinson Cowell a survey of a selection of the Companys major shareholders as to their perceptions of the Group, its management and its future direction, the results of which were formally presented to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee also sought the views of leading shareholders on the changes to annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements described in the Remuneration report.
The Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity for communication with shareholders.
All of the Companys Directors attended the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The Companys website keeps shareholders abreast of developments.
It is regularly updated with press releases and analyst presentations.
Shareholders can register on the website to be sent news releases automatically.
Information and training for Directors The Company makes arrangements for new Non-Executive Directors to receive detailed business briefings as regards the Groups operations and arranges induction visits to the Groups principal sites.
Director training for new directors, when appropriate, is arranged with external providers.
Non-Executive Directors may at any time make visits to Group businesses or operational sites and Board visits are also made to sites.
Presentations on the Groups businesses and specialist functions are made to the Group Board from time to time.
Non-Executive Directors receive copies of all minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee and regularly receive the operating reports sent to the Group head office by the business operations.
General Director training that might be of potential interest or relevance to established Directors can be arranged on request, for which the Company is willing to pay.
The Company Secretary briefs Board members about significant changes in the law affecting their duties as Directors.
Internal controls, control environment, procedures and monitoring The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There is a written delegation of matters from the Board to committees of one or more Directors.
The Board retains responsibility for: setting overall strategy: approving annual budgets: authorising business acquisitions and disposals: approving significant contracts outside the ordinary course of business: and setting treasury and borrowing policy.
Governance 34 60 Babcock International Group PLC 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks throughout the year to 31 March 2009 and up to the date of the approval of the financial statements for that year.
The Board considers the system to be effective and in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The internal control system is monitored through review visits by Group management and the internal audit service provided by Ernst & Young LLP, which acts under the overall control and direction of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system covers any material joint ventures or associates.
The Board through its Audit and Risk Committee reviews the effectiveness of the process formally at least once a year.
The Committee also reviews aspects of the system on an ongoing basis at its meetings as part of its review of internal audit reports and of risk management reports and against operational outcomes.
It seeks the views of internal and external auditors upon the control system and how it compares with processes in other companies.
The system comprises principally: a risk identification, evaluation and management process: clear delegations and limits of authority: clear authorisation and review procedures: independent internal audits: regular review by the Audit and Risk Committee of risk registers, internal and external audit reports and fraud management reports: an independent whistle-blowing hotline available to employees: regular divisional operating reviews attended by Group executive management: regular contract review meetings: monthly reporting of results against budget and forecast, with variances explained: an annual presentation on tax matters to the Board: regular reports to the Board on the Groups pension scheme exposures and risks: an annual report to the Board of the Groups insurance programme: monthly reports on disputes and litigation: a succession planning process: monthly reports to a Safety Leadership Team comprised of the Chief Executive and divisional Managing Directors on health, safety and environmental matters: and bi-annual reports to the Board on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Groups systems can, however, only seek to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, as any system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives The identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives is also addressed on pages 26 to 29.
Budgets Comprehensive systems are in place to develop annual budgets and medium-term financial plans.
The budgets are reviewed by central management before being submitted to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared at least quarterly.
The Board is provided with details of actual performance each month compared with budgets, forecasts and the prior year, and is given a written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
