Babcock International Group PLC 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Audit and Risk Committee The members The members of the Committee, who each served throughout the year to 31 March 2009 and who were considered by the Board to be independent as explained on page 42, are: J Rennocks Committee Chairman Sir Nigel Essenhigh J Crookenden D Shah retired from the Committee on 31 March 2009 Sir David Omand joined the Committee on 1 April 2009 Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 34 and 35.
Mr Rennocks is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC and is considered by the Board to have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience for his role as Committee Chairman.
Attendance at Meetings in the year to 31 March 2009: Director Committee meetings attended John Rennocks 4 out of 4 Dipesh Shah 3 out of 4 Sir Nigel Essenhigh 4 out of 4 Justin Crookenden 4 out of 4 How it operates The Committees formal terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
Its responsibilities include: appointing internal and external auditors and assessing their independence: deciding audit fees and approving fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditor or by any firm providing internal audit services : ensuring the provision of non-audit services does not impair auditors independence or objectivity: agreeing the nature and scope of internal and external audits: reviewing the external auditors management letter and managements response: ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company: considering managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendations: reviewing the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistle-blowers: reviewing the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management: and reviewing, and challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of management, in relation to the interim and annual financial statements.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Group Financial Controller to attend its meetings.
Non-Executive Directors not sitting on the Committee are also welcome to attend.
The Group Risk Manager attends Committee meetings for discussion of Group risk reports and related items.
Ernst & Young LLP provides internal audit services to the Company.
 LLP is the Groups external auditor.
Both auditors usually attend all or part of the Committees meetings.
The Committee Chairman meets  LLP and Ernst & Young in the absence of executive management, and other Committee members have the opportunity to do so.
Governance 34 60 Babcock International Group PLC 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 What it did in the year The Committee met formally four times in the year to 31 March 2009.
In the year, the Committee: reviewed the preliminary and interim statements of results, having considered any matters calling for judgement in their preparation: reviewed proposed announcements relating to preliminary and interim results: reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 and the half year ended 30 September 2008 and internal and external auditors comments in connection with them: evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls: considered reports specifically evaluating the scope for fraud in the Groups operations and misreporting of results by business units: reviewed internal audit reports from Ernst & Young LLP and external audit reports from  LLP and duly considered any matters raised in them: considered the levels of audit fees and non-audit fees paid to auditors: agreed internal and external audit plans: reviewed the arrangements for confidential whistle-blowing: reviewed the Group risk standard and its implementation, together with Group risk reports: and conducted a going concern review.
