XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 108 | 108 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report While the Board focuses on strategic issues, financial performance, risk The Combined Code management and critical business issues, it also has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters which are documented in a comprehensive regime of authorisation levels The Board is fully committed to the principle of best practice in corporate and prior approval requirements for key corporate decisions and actions, governance.
This report describes how the Company has applied the are reviewed and updated annually by the Board.
Such matters reserved main principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued to the Board include, but are not limited to, approval of budgets and by the Financial Reporting Council on June 2008 the Code.
During business plans, major capital expenditure, major acquisitions and the year under review, the Company has complied with the provisions disposals, and other key commitments.
Certain powers are delegated by contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except, with regard to the Board to an Executive Committee which is a Committee of the Board membership of the Remuneration Committee Code Provision B.
2.1 of Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
as the Chairman of the Committee is not considered independent.
This Committee and a description of its powers are described on page 115.
This point is addressed below in the description of the work of the Remuneration Committee on page 113.
The Combined Code is The Company has a policy based on the Model Code published in the available at www.
uk Listing Rules, which covers dealings in securities and applies to directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, and employee insiders.
Disclosure rules and transparency rules DTR Six scheduled Board meetings were held during the year and one additional meeting was held.
Attendance by directors at Board meetings and at meetings of standing committees of the Board is shown below.
The information required by DTR 7.2.
6 regarding share capital required In addition, the Chairman held a separate meeting with the non-executive under paragraph 13 of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized directors without the executive directors being present and the nonCompanies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is executive directors held a separate meeting without the Chairman being included in the Directors report on pages 102 to 104. present.
All Board meetings are held in Switzerland.
There are four formally constituted committees of the Board.
Details of attendance at Directors Board and committee meetings are given below.
The role and work of these committees is described in detail on pages 112 to 115.
The Board Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board The Board is satisfied that it meets the requirements of the Code in maintaining an effective Board which is collectively responsible for the Board success of the Company.
7 of which 6 Health, Safety, were Audit Remuneration Environment & Nominations Director scheduled 4 2 Community 4 4 The Board, chaired by Willy Strothotte, has 11 directors, comprising three executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
The three executive Mick Davis 7 4 Ivan Glasenberg 6 3 directors are Mick Davis, the Chief Executive, Trevor Reid, Chief Financial Paul Hazen 7 2 officer, and Santiago Zaldumbide, Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc.
David Peter Hooley 4 out 1 out Rough, an independent, non-executive director is the Deputy Chairman of 5 of 2 and Senior Independent Director.
At the Annual General Meeting on Claude 5 May 2009, Peter Hooley was elected a director of the Company and Lamoureux 7 4 4 Robert MacDonnell retired from the Board.
There were no other changes Robert 2 out # to the membership of the Board during the year.
The non-executive MacDonnell of 2 directors possess a range of experience and are of sufciently high Sir Steve 7 4 3 out Robson of 3 calibre to bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, David Rough 7 4 2 4 4 performance, and resources that are vital to the success of the Group.
Trevor Reid 7 Matters reserved for the Board Ian Strachan 7 4 4 The Board is responsible for the governance of the Group on behalf of Willy Strothotte 7 2 shareholders within a framework of policies and controls which provide Santiago for effective risk assessment and management Zaldumbide 7 Elected on 5 May 2009.
The Board provides leadership and articulates the Companys objectives # Retired on 5 May 2009. and strategy to achieve those objectives The Board sets standards of conduct, as documented in an approved Statement of Business Principles, which provide an ethical framework for all Xstrata businesses Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 109 109 formed company from the merger of Eyesizwe Mining and the non-iron Chairman and Chief Executive ore assets of Kumba Resources.
The Board is confident that Dr Fauconnier A clear separation is maintained between the responsibilities of the will make a significant contribution to the Group.
Chairman and the Chief Executive.
This is documented in a statement approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of Information and professional development the Board and creating the conditions for overall Board and individual As part of the annual Board evaluation process, the Board expressed its director effectiveness while the Chief Executive is responsible for overall satisfaction that the information provided in the Board papers is of the performance of the Group including the responsibility for arranging the right quality, format and length to allow a full understanding of all the effective day-to-day management controls over the running of the Group.
relevant issues with respect to the matters under consideration and was satisfied that the Board is kept informed of all areas of major importance Board balance to the Company.
The Board is provided periodically with reports on changes in UK laws and regulation and Glencores representative directors brief the Board on market conditions and developments.
The Board is also Independent directors Non-Independent directors kept informed through circulated monthly reports.
3 executive directors 5 2 non-executive directors All directors are made aware that they may take independent professional 6 advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties.
All directors had access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that all governance matters are complied with and assists with professional development as required.
Board balance and independence New directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining Of the eight non-executive directors, six are considered by the Board to the Board.
In addition, ongoing support and resources are provided be independent of management and free from any business or other to directors in order to enable them to extend and refresh their skills, relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their knowledge and familiarity with the Company.
Professional development independent judgement and two, Willy Strothotte and Ivan Glasenberg and training is provided in three complementary ways: regular updating are directors of Glencore International AG Glencore.
Willy Strothotte with information on changes and proposed changes in laws and is Chairman and Ivan Glasenberg is Chief Executive officer of Glencore.
regulations affecting the Group or its businesses: arrangements, including The Board has considered these associations and considers the industry site visits, to ensure directors are familiar with the Groups operations: expertise and experience of these directors beneficial to the Group.
and opportunities for professional and skills training.
David Rough is the Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent Performance evaluation Director.
His role and responsibilities as the Senior Independent Director The Board evaluation this year comprised two questionnaires completed are detailed in and formalised by Board resolution and, in summary, are by each director: one on the performance of the Board and its that he should be available to shareholders to discuss their concerns committees: and the other, an individual director appraisal by the other where the normal channels would not be appropriate for this purpose, to directors.
The process was overseen by the Senior Independent Director have contact with analysts and major shareholders to obtain a balanced with the support of the Company Secretary.
In general, directors were understanding of their issues and concerns, to chair the Nominations very satisfied with the Boards performance and there were no serious Committee and to lead the Board and director appraisal process.
issues raised regarding the Boards performance that needed to be Appointments to the Board addressed.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews major Group and A search for a new independent non-executive director was conducted Business Unit risks, mitigating actions, and the Group-wide process of by the Nominations Committee.
Given the mandate from the Board for identifying risk, and the outcome of the Audit Committees review is appointment of a director with an executive mining background, it was communicated to the Board.
As a result of the evaluation, it was agreed felt that Board members were capable of proposing to the Committee that in future the full Board should take ownership of the responsibility a wider selection of candidates with the required experience than would for risk.
The full Board will receive copies of the Group and Business Unit be possible by an external search consultancy.
As a result, the Committee Risk Registers and these will be reviewed in the context of Group and was able to recommend that Dr Con Fauconnier be invited to join the Business Unit strategy and planning discussions at Board meetings.
Board as an independent non-executive director and will be proposed Another result of the evaluation was that, given the complexity of by the Board for election by the shareholders at the Annual General remuneration policies and packages across the Group, a full presentation Meeting on 5 May 2010.
He has agreed to act as an independent outlining and explaining remuneration policies in the Group will be given external consultant to the Board with effect from 1 February 2010 until annually to the full Board.
Dr Fauconnier was Managing Director of Iscor Mining in It was agreed that the Board evaluation in 2010 will be conducted by an 1999, before being appointed as Chief Executive of Kumba Resources external evaluator.
From 2006 until his retirement in August 2007, he served as Chief Executive officer of Exxaro Resources Limited, a newly XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 110 | 110 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued  Re-election of directors  Under the Articles, one third of all directors are required to retire by objectives with a view to enhancing the value of the shareholders rotation at each Annual General Meeting and any director who, at the .
 start of an Annual General Meeting, has been in ofce for more than been designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to three years since his election must retire.
Retiring directors may offer achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute themselves for re-election.
The succession plan was updated and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors confirm approved by the Board during the year to ensure there was a balance of .
skills and experience on the Board and to plan for an orderly refreshing of Board membership.
It is proposed that Mick Davis, David Rough, Sir This review excludes associates of the Group as Xstrata management Steve Robson and Willy Strothotte will retire and will offer themselves for does not have the ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2010.
appraisal of the non-executive directors, the Board was satisfied that each Control environment directors performance continues to be effective and that each director The key elements and procedures that have been established to provide continues to demonstrate commitment to the role, and recommended an effective system of internal control are as follows: the re-election of the directors.
Paul Hazen will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
i Organisational structure There is a well-dened organisational structure with clear operating Remuneration procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Remuneration is covered in the Remuneration Report on pages 116 to 127 and a description of the work of the Remuneration Committee, on The way the Group conducts its business, expectations of management pages 113 and 114. and key accountabilities are embodied in the Groups policies, its Statement of Business Principles and Board Level Authority Limits.
Accountability and audit The Group operates a decentralised management model with appropriate authority delegated to Commodity Business Unit Boards for the Alloys, Coal, Copper, Nickel and Zinc Lead businesses.
The Business Units are Financial reporting responsible for profitability to the level of earnings before interest and The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and clear taxation EBIT.
Business Unit Boards meet regularly and either the Group assessment of the Companys position and prospects and the Board is CEO or CFO attend as representatives of Head Ofce.
The Board sets satisfied that it has met this obligation.
This assessment is primarily overall policy and authority to implement that policy is delegated to its provided in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives report and commodity business units and supporting functions.
the operating and financial review contained in this report.
The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Group and Parent Company Group policies are established by head ofce management for application financial statements is set out on page 130. across the whole Group.
Internal control ii Risk identication and evaluation General The Board considers effective risk management as essential to the The Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of achievement of the Groups objectives and has implemented a structured internal control and relies on reviews undertaken by the Audit Committee and comprehensive system across the Group.
The Group Risk Management supported by the Business Unit Audit Committees with respect to the Policy is published on the Xstrata website at www.
com as part of Groups compliance with the Turnbull Guidance with specic reference the Governance section.
to risk management and internal control systems.
In the future, it has The Xstrata approach to risk management is value-driven and has the been agreed that the full Board will take responsibility for risk, as a result stated objective of ensuring an environment where we can condently of the recent Board evaluation.
grow shareholder value through developing and protecting our people, An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating our assets, our environment and our reputation.
The process is thorough and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process and robust and is an essential element of the Groups approach to has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date business planning.
of the approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The Audit The head ofce and each commodity business unit carry out a Committee reviews this process and the effectiveness of the system of comprehensive annual risk review and update their risk registers internal control by considering the regular reports from management accordingly.
Objectives in the business plan are aligned with risks and a on key risks, mitigating actions and internal controls, management summary of the key risks, related internal controls, accountabilities and representations and assertions and the reports on risk management and further mitigating actions that are planned is appended to the business internal control from Internal Audit, the External Auditors and other plan that is reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee and assurance providers such as sustainable development management.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 111 111 Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk prole and vi Internal audit actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported quarterly Internal Audit is an important element of the overall process by which the to the Business Unit and Xstrata plc Audit Committees, as well as to the Executive Committee and the Board obtains the assurance it requires that Executive Committee and the Board as and when necessary.
risks are properly identied, evaluated and managed.
Risk-based internal audit plans, prepared on an annual basis, are submitted to the Audit The output of the process has been reviewed by the Group and Committee for approval.
commodity business unit audit committees, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group-wide internal audit function is supplemented by external service providers when the required expertise is not available in-house.
iii Information and financial reporting systems The Groups comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedures vii Fraud management include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead and a plan for There is a formal Group policy relating to fraud management, the following two years.
The Board reviews and approves the three-year including reporting and investigation arrangements and, in line budget and plan.
Plans and budgets are prepared on the basis of with best practice, includes whistleblowing procedures.
There are consistent economic assumptions determined by the Group Finance independently operated condential hotlines in various countries in function.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout which the Group operates, through which employees or contractors or the year through the monthly reporting of key performance indicators, any other parties can report any breach of Xstratas Business Principles, updated forecasts for the current and subsequent two years together including fraud.
The contact details are published in the Statement with information on the key risk areas.
of Business Principles which can be found on the Xstrata website at www.
All incidents Comprehensive monthly management reports on a divisional and reported are fully investigated and the results are reported to the consolidated basis, including updated forecasts for the year, are prepared Audit Committee.
and presented to the Executive Committee by the Group Controller.
Detailed consolidated management accounts, together with an executive Relations with shareholders summary from the Chief Executive, are circulated to all directors on a monthly basis.
iv Investment appraisal Dialogue with shareholders A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
The Board places considerable importance on effective communication For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals are with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, submitted to the Business Unit Chief Executive, Business Unit Executive assisted by the Executive General Manager of Corporate Affairs, Committee, Group Chief Executive, Exco or the plc Board in accordance maintain regular dialogue with and give briengs throughout the year with Board delegated authority limits.
Calculations of net present value to analysts and institutional investors and are involved in a structured NPV and internal rates of return IRR, and return on capital employed programme of investor, analyst and media site visits.
Presentations are ROCE and sustainable development assessments are carried out as part given by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer after Xstratas of the process.
Economic numbers used reect the latest forward prices preliminary announcements of the year-end results and at the half year.
where possible for the short and medium term, and centrally agreed longCare is taken to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released term assumptions.
Reviews are carried out after the project is complete, to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in and for some projects during the construction period, to monitor progress accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the against plan: major overruns and non-conformance to sustainable SIX Swiss Exchange requirements.
Commercial, legal, financial and The Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders for any sustainable development due diligence work, using outside consultants, concern which contact with the Group Chairman, Chief Executive or is undertaken in respect of acquisitions as appropriate.
Chief Financial officer failed to resolve or for which such contact was v Treasury Committee inappropriate.
All shareholders can obtain access to the annual reports and  Schweiz other current information about the Company through Xstratas website AG Executive Committee.
Its membership consists of the Chief Executive, at www.
The operating and financial reviews on pages 44 the Chief Financial officer, the Group Treasurer and Group Controller.
The to 95 include a detailed report on the business and future developments.
Committee recommends Group policy, which is submitted to the Group Board for approval, relating to all aspects of funding, management of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and it coordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and other financial institutions.
The Committee monitors all significant treasury activities undertaken by Group companies and ensures compliance with Group policy.
XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 112 | 112 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Controller, Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting representatives of Xstratas external auditors and the Head of Internal All directors normally attend Xstratas Annual General Meeting AGM Audit normally attend the meetings.
Other directors of the Company and and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and senior management may also, on invitation by the Committee, attend to meet directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
At the time and speak, but not vote at any meeting of the Audit Committee.
In order of the listing in March 2002, shareholders in the old Xstrata AG were to further enhance communication and best practice, the chairmen of informed that the Company would offer shareholders the opportunity the Companys Business Unit Audit Committees and the chief executives to attend general meetings in Switzerland where the head ofce resides, of the business units are also invited to attend the Audit Committee even though the Company was incorporated and has its registered ofce meetings on a rotational basis.
The Audit Committee reports its activities in England.
Given this history and the number of shares still held in or and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Audit Committee met through Switzerland, the Board continues to consider it is appropriate four times during the year ended 31 December 2009. for the AGM, to be held in Zug, Switzerland.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional and private investors and welcomes A member of the Audit Committee also attends the meetings of the their participation.
At the AGM on 5 May 2009, the Chairman and business unit audit committees to help promote a co-ordinated and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSEC consistent approach among the Groups audit committees.
Committees were present to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions During that year the Committee: to be proposed at the AGM on 5 May 2010 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting.
From the 2009 AGM onwards, the Board has determined a approved the 2008 Preliminary Results announcement and in the that voting on all resolutions at the AGM will be by way of a poll, each context of a proposed Rights Issue, and reviewed managements member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each fully paid impairment testing in detail.
The Committee believed that the ordinary share of which she he is a holder.
positions taken and amounts recorded were appropriate and that assumptions were reasonable and within the range of the latest Board committees forecasts, where available: b reviewed the 2008 annual financial statements and the external auditors detailed reports thereon including the appropriateness of The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and the Xstrata Groups accounting policies, the Litigation Report, the HSEC Committees are available on the Companys website going concern statement, banking covenants and asset impairment www.
charges, and recommended approval by the Board: The Audit Committee comprises five independent non-executive directors.
c reviewed the external auditors plan and scope for the audit of the Audit Committee Xstrata Group accounts, and approved their remuneration both for Audit Committee members: audit and non-audit work, and their terms of engagement: Sir Steve Robson Chairman d reviewed the 2009 interim financial statements: Peter Hooley Claude Lamoureux e at the meeting of the Committee in December 2009, reviewed a David Rough $1.9 billion post-tax impairment charge for Xstrata Nickels Canadian, Ian Strachan Norwegian and Australian operations: Audit Committee responsibilities: f recommended to the Board the reappointment of the external The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities auditors following an evaluation of their effectiveness and with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and conrmation of auditor objectivity and independence.
The overall controls, including reviewing Xstratas annual financial statements, effectiveness of the auditors was rated highly: considering the scope of the Companys annual external audit and the g considered the results of the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit review extent of non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, approving the of the audit of the Companys 2007 financial statements: Companys internal audit programme, advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys h examined the effectiveness of the Companys risk management internal control systems, risk management systems, risk registers and the system including its risk management process and prole, the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
Companys internal control systems and operations which were examined and tested by the internal auditors: While all members of the Committee are nancially literate, Peter Hooley is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 113 113 i reviewed the structure and limits of the Xstrata Group insurance Remuneration Committee policies, and considered these to be appropriate: Remuneration Committee members: Willy Strothotte Chairman j reviewed and approved the internal audit plans for 2010, the effectiveness of the internal audit function and, at each meeting, David Rough Independent Paul Hazen Independent reviewed the reports on findings and on progress against recommendations.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee also Remuneration Committee responsibilities: reviewed a report on major projects in terms of achievement of The principal roles of the Remuneration Committee are: i to consider agreed control objectives and project management delivery targets: and determine all elements of the remuneration of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer and of the heads of the major operating k reviewed an Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report, reviewed by subsidiaries or business units of the Company the Executive Group an independent expert to ensure consistency of reporting across the as dened by the Chief Executive: and ii to determine targets for any Group and with international standards: performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company.
At its l approved a statement on the process by which the Audit Committee meetings, the Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to and Xstratas Board review the effectiveness of internal control: and the Board in regard to all elements of the remuneration for the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Group.
The Remuneration m reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements, and the report on Committee receives independent advice on benchmarking and best whistleblowing and fraud-related matters.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee conform Following each Committee meeting, separate meetings were held by with the terms of reference set out in the Code.
The recommended the Committee with the external auditors in the absence of executive revision of the fee structure for non-executive directors was approved management, with executive management in the absence of the external by the Board as a whole.
auditors and with the internal auditor in the absence of executive management and the external auditors.
AsChairman of Xstrata and Chairman of Glencore, he is not considered to be an The Group has a specic policy governing the conduct of non-audit work independent director and therefore is not compliant with the Code.
by the external auditors which ensures that the Company is in compliance The Board regards Willy Strothottes membership as critical to the work with the requirements of the Combined Code and the Ethical Standards of the Committee due to his extensive knowledge and experience of for Auditors published by the Auditing Practices Board.
the global mining resources sector.
The Board considers that this is consistent with the main principle in Code B.
2 of the Code and The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services that are not in contributes to good governance.
The Committee met twice during the conict with auditor independence.
Six-monthly reports are made to the year.
The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation but does not Audit Committee detailing non-audit fees paid to both the external and participate at a meeting of the Committee or during the relevant part internal auditors.
However, prior approval of the Audit Committee is at which any part of his remuneration is being discussed or participate required for each specic service provided by the external auditors.
in any recommendation or decision concerning his remuneration.
A range of non-audit services has been pre-approved in principle by the The Remuneration Committees activities in respect of the year ended Audit Committee.
However, where the fee is likely to be in excess of 31 December 2009 included: US$100,000 for such services, specic re-approval is required, while prior approval of the Chief Financial officer is required for those pre-approved a determining the bonuses for 2008 performance and salaries for 2010 for the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee: services where the fee is likely to be less than US$100,000.
The Audit Committee is supported and assisted in its work by separate b determining the vesting percentage applicable to awards under the Audit Committees for each Commodity Business Unit in line with the Long Term Incentive Plan 2006 which vested in March 2009, decentralised commodity business unit model.
The Business Unit Audit approving the number of share options and contingent share awards Committees are independent of the executive management of the to be awarded under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan awards and Business Unit and are chaired by suitably qualied individuals independent the individual awards to members of the Executive Committee other of Xstrata.
The terms of reference of these Committees follow those of than Mick Davis : Xstratas Audit Committee.
Meeting dates precede those of Xstratas c approving an increase in the number of free shares and shares under Audit Committee and minutes of their meetings are circulated to Xstratas option and the reduction of the exercise price of options awarded Audit Committee.
under the Long Term Incentive Plan as a result of the March 2009 Rights Issue, in accordance with standard market practice: XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 114 | 114 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued d agreeing amendments to the Xstrata Long term Incentive Plan Rules Health, Safety, Environment & Community Committee to ameliorise the detrimental effects of Australian legislation to the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Committee taxation treatment of good leavers and retirees in Australia: Ian Strachan Chairman e approving the vesting calculation under the 2006 Added Value Mick Davis Incentive Plan AVP and agreeing a 2009 AVP award to the Claude Lamoureux Chief Executive: and David Rough f determining the amount of the total award to be granted under Health, Safety, Environment & Community Committee the Xstrata Long Term Incentive Plan in 2010. responsibilities: The principal roles of the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Details of Xstratas remuneration for executive directors, benets, share options, pensions entitlements, service contracts and compensation HSEC Committee are to review and make recommendations to payments are given in the remuneration report on pages 116 to 127. the Board on the appropriateness and effectiveness of health, safety, A resolution to approve the remuneration report will be proposed at environment and community strategy, systems and methodology.
It also the Annual General Meeting.
reviews the results of any investigation into significant health, safety, environment and community incidents and keeps the Board informed Nominations Committee of new developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation Nominations Committee members: on health, safety, environment and community matters which may be David Rough Chairman relevant to the Xstrata Groups operations, its assets or employees.
Ivan Glasenberg During the year ended 31 December 2009, the HSEC Committee met Sir Steve Robson, following Robert MacDonnells retirement on four times.
Its activities in respect of that year included: 5 May 2009. a monitoring and evaluating reports on the implementation and Of these non-executive directors Ivan Glasenberg is not effectiveness of the Sustainable Development SD Policy, SD considered independent management standards, SD strategy and the SD Assurance Programme: Nominations Committee responsibilities: b monitoring and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending candidates Xstrata Coal, Xstrata Copper and Xstrata Nickels SD and HSEC for appointment to the Board, the composition of the Board, and orderly strategies, plans and performance.
The Committee noted the successions to the Board.
The Committee reviews the structure of the enormous improvement made in the Xstrata Nickel business, bringing Board of directors, identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rates of the ex Falconbridge for Board vacancies and making recommendations on the continuation businesses down to Xstratas average rates: of existing directors in ofce to ensure there is a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Committee also determines c monitoring and evaluating reports on high potential risk HSEC succession plans for the chairman and chief executive officer, and incidents and the results of investigations into fatalities and other assesses directors potential conict of interest situations and makes critical HSEC incidents: recommendations thereon to the Board.
d receiving a report on 2008 HSEC performance against targets and During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Nominations Committee 2009 monthly performance including a review over the period 2003 met four times.
Its activities in respect of that year included: 2009 of Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rates and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates which demonstrated year-on-year reductions with a reviewing the plan for the retirement by rotation and re-election of the Company now signicantly below industry averages: directors of Xstrata and the framework for Board succession planning for 2010 12: e monitoring and evaluating new developments, issues and or relevant b interviewing potential candidates for appointment to the Board in legislation on HSEC matters including a consideration of the major 2010 and making recommendations thereon to the Board.
In carrying challenges affecting the Company including a more burdensome out the Boards opinion that the composition of the Board would energy and carbon footprint, reporting to local and international benefit from a candidate with an executive mining background and bodies regarding climate change, the Australian Governments experience, the Committee was able to recommend the appointment proposals for greenhouse gas reductions, and water shortages of Dr Con Fauconnier for election to the Board at the 2010 AGM: as well as ood control in areas that are susceptible to these adverse conditions: c overseeing the annual evaluation of the Boards performance, its committees and directors: and f approving a policy on SD governance, SD performance in 2009 and d assessing directors potential conict of interest situations, approving the Sustainability Report: proposing terms on which those situations might be authorised and recommending these for authorisation by the Board.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p108-115 AW4 Layout 1 18 03 2010 10:52 Page 115 115 g agreeing that from 2010, the Company having achieved a mature Sustainable Development assurance reporting and review system, there will be continuing annual reviews in conjunction with Internal Audit against the Groups SD Standards and focusing on specic issues but complemented by an external audit every three years: and h noting the Companys leadership position in the Mining Sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year against an ever more demanding external environment in which the Company operates.
Executive Committee Executive Committee members: Mick Davis Chairman, also Xstrata plc Chief Executive officer Trevor Reid Chief Financial officer Santiago Zaldumbide Xstrata Zinc Charlie Sartain Xstrata Copper Peter Freyberg Xstrata Coal Ian Pearce Xstrata Nickel Peet Nienaber Xstrata Alloys Benny Levene Chief Legal Counsel Thras Moraitis Executive General Manager, Group Strategy and Corporate Affairs Executive Committee responsibilities: The Executive Committee is a Committee of the Board of Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The Executive Committee obtains its responsibility and authority from the Xstrata Schweiz AG Board and is directly accountable to the Xstrata plc Board.
Other members of senior management are invited to attend Executive Committee meetings as required.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing strategy, approval of matters consistent with its delegated levels of authority and overseeing the various businesses which comprise the Group.
It meets regularly during the year.
No meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
