DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A robust governance structure underpins the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Dick Olver Chairman In last years report and accounts I made reference to the crisis in a number of aspects to this engagement ranging from the formal voting financial markets and how this had caused directors to reflect on their on the resolutions we put to the Annual General Meeting AGM to governance responsibilities.
The ramifications of the financial crisis more informal aspects such as the contact I look to maintain with have been wide reaching with many reflecting on possible corporate key shareholders to assist them in the stewardship of their investments.
governance failures and, towards the end of 2009, Sir David Walker Shareholder voting on the continued appointment of a companys directors published his review of corporate governance in UK banks.
His review is a powerful asset that underwrites the relationship between board and is a thorough analysis of corporate governance that, in many areas, is shareholders.
After careful analysis and consultation Sir David Walker applicable beyond the banking and finance industry.
This was recognised came down in favour of recommending that chairmen should stand for by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, which worked closely with annual shareholder re-election.
Without doubt, the role of the board Sir David and issued its own report on proposed changes to the Combined chairman has developed a good deal since Sir Adrian Cadbury wrote Code, the UKs corporate governance code.
There is never room for his far reaching report on corporate governance in 1992.
The position complacency, and for me the most important message from both reports has become more clearly defined and is uniquely placed at the centre of is that collectively and individually we can, and need to, learn from a companys governance arrangements.
I am in agreement with Sir Davids experience and continue to improve the way we run companies.
We are analysis and will personally stand for annual shareholder re-election with taking time in the first half of this year to carefully consider the detail in effect from this years AGM.
the two reports and agree what we need to do to continue to move our own governance processes forward.
Board effectiveness One of the recommendations in the Walker Report and the FRCs report The FRC report proposes that greater emphasis should be placed on the relates to the evaluation of board performance and the use of an external principles in the Code, and recommends adopting certain new principles facilitator to undertake this.
We have used an external facilitator to and adding to existing ones.
The effective assist with our annual evaluation process for the last four years, and working of a board is far too dynamic and complex to be appreciated and this has helped to contribute to the effectiveness of the Board and its understood through the application of tick-box provisions.
I see it as providing the directors with a tool that helps insightful reporting on the Codes principles is an essential element of us analyse our performance and agree what we need to do to continue the UKs governance model and for a number of years in these corporate to improve.
For me as Chairman, it provides a useful and constructive governance reports I have tried to provide shareholders with a meaningful means by which issues can be raised in a timely manner and dealt insight into corporate governance practices in BAE Systems based on with as part of the normal governance processes of the Board.
Sitting as it does within our report and accounts, this the evaluation process we regularly review how we operate as a board, report is an important statement on the governance of the Company looking at areas such as: and forms part of our wider engagement with shareholders.
com People How effective is the Chairman?
Do we have the right mix of that the Board derives from this.
With regards to information on executive and non-executive directors around the board table?
Are personal performance, I meet with each director and provide feedback our succession planning processes effective in ensuring that we have on a one-to-one basis, committee chairmen also get feedback on non-executives with the right skills, knowledge and experience?
Importantly, feedback on my performance well do we know the senior executives below board level and do we in chairing the Board is provided by the consultant directly to our Senior have robust succession plans for the executive director positions?
Independent Director, who discusses this with the other non-executive directors before I meet with him to receive feedback.
Information and Board processes What do we need to do to ensure that all directors develop a good understanding of the business?
Are The Combined Code requires that a board be supplied with information in directors receiving the information they require to make timely and a timely manner in a form and quality appropriate to enable it to discharge appropriate decisions?
Do we manage directors induction and training its duties.
Describing how we apply this principle demonstrates the value effectively?
What do we need to do to ensure that we get maximum of performance evaluation in helping to develop directors information value from the finite amount of time directors have together?
Last year in the Boards objectives for 2009 we reported key issues understood, discussed and agreed upon and concerns that periodically we wished to take a more in-depth look at specific appropriately addressed?
Does the board have the right key programmes, which we believed would help directors to develop a deeper performance indicators with which to monitor performance?
understanding of the Key Performance Indicator KPI information they Behaviour How effective are we at making decisions?
Do board receive on a regular basis.
In 2009 the Board undertook a number of what members display appropriate behaviours that allow important matters we term deep dives in different areas of our business.
For example, one to be raised and openly discussed?
Are all board members positively looked at the F-35 aircraft programme, which was done as part of a visit to engaged in decision making?
Accepting that the chairman and chief the UK production facility for this programme, allowing directors to engage executive are key players in the board room, is their relationship directly with members of the project team.
effective, both in relation to each other and the board as a whole?
Recognising the important role the Board plays in ultimately agreeing the For the last five years our annual board effectiveness evaluations strategic direction the Company takes, we have also used the evaluation have been undertaken by Sheena Crane, an experienced consultant, process to refine how the Board is engaged in the review of strategy.
For whose only interest with BAE Systems is her work with the Board.
She example, following on from last years evaluation we modified the strategy was appointed to perform this work in consultation with the Nominations review process and added an additional mid-year strategy workshop to Committee.
The evaluation process is based on the facilitator engage the Board more fully in our Integrated Business Planning process.
interviewing each of the directors and recording their views on how the For the last four years we have provided details on the annual objectives Board and its committees work and on the performance of individual directors.
Feedback on board performance is presented to a meeting the Board has set following the evaluation process and information on of the Board, which agrees actions and objectives for the following year how we think we did in addressing the prior years objectives.
In the table based on the information the facilitator provides and the conclusions below we report on the evaluation we have just completed.
BOARD PERFORMANCE 2009 OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2009 objectives 2009 achievements Maximise the effectiveness of the strategy The Board held an additional mid-year strategy review to consider the initial output from the planning process and continue to visit Groups strategy and business planning process.
Also, board meetings were held at Company operational sites to develop further the sites in the UK and US to provide directors with an opportunity to develop further their Boards awareness and understanding understanding of the Group.
Continue to engage with management in The development of global markets was addressed through the Companys strategy and studying and developing the actions needed business planning process, in which the Board was engaged on a regular basis.
In addition, to exploit global markets.
the Chief Executive led the Executive Committee in developing management development processes aimed at increasing global management mobility.
The Nominations Committee reviewed progress on this during the year.
Support the Chief Executive in ensuring As reported elsewhere in this report, good progress has been made in implementing the the Woolf Report recommendations are Woolf Committee Report recommendations.
Throughout the year, the Chief Executive updated implemented across the Group, ensuring all the Board and Corporate Responsibility Committee on progress.
Board members participated staff and external stakeholders are engaged.
in an externally facilitated ethics training and awareness session aligned to the training undertaken by employees as part of the Code of Conduct implementation programme.
Provide support to the new Chief Executive Where possible, the Board members have looked to assist Ian King in his first full year as to ensure his success.
Focus on KPIs, ensuring they continue Throughout 2009, the Board reviewed KPIs on a regular basis.
In addition, it undertook a number to provide the right level of performance of deep dives into particular parts of the business to help develop a greater appreciation of the oversight, and periodically take a more underlying businesses and the practical application of performance management.
in-depth look at specific programmes.
Ensure attention remains focused on The Nominations Committee undertook a review of the Board succession priorities for the near-term and long-term succession next three years.
This helped to guide non-executive director search activities undertaken planning for the Board.
in 2009 and has helped set future priorities.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 79 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BOARD PERFORMANCE 2010 OBJECTIVES Maintain focus on developing the Companys strategy and make progress in achieving the Strategic Actions agreed by the Board in 2009.
The Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee to continue to monitor the development of a Total Performance culture, including implementation of the Woolf Committees recommendations.
Focus on monitoring operational performance, including cost and efficiency metrics.
Continue to monitor the development of the competencies and culture required to support the growth of our home markets.
The Chairman to facilitate continuing development for the non-executive directors, including their understanding and familiarity with the Companys businesses, core processes and markets.
Board and Group governance At present, the BAE Systems Board comprises three executive directors, the Company and it also helps with succession planning.
Throughout nine non-executives all independent and myself as Chairman.
Balance the year senior operational and functional executives attended board is a key requirement when it comes to the composition of a board, not meetings, and on two occasions the Board and Executive Committee only in terms of executives and non-executives but also with regards participated in informal strategy review sessions.
to the mix of skills, experience and knowledge.
Having a number of In our governance framework, the responsibilities of the Chairman executives on the Board, and also providing non-executives with regular and the Chief Executive are separate, distinct and complementary.
In access to executives below the Board, helps to ensure that views this we adhere to the principle in the Combined Code requiring a clear and perceptions are not dominated by a single executive voice.
The division of responsibilities at the head of the company.
Essentially, as Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer who Chairman I am responsible for the effective working of the Board, whilst has specific responsibility for our US business are all Board members.
the Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and the operational In addition, other senior executives attend parts of Board meetings on a regular basis primarily to provide the non-executive Board members performance of the Company.
The extract from our Board Charter below with a wider and more immediate view of operational issues affecting details the specific responsibilities of these two roles.
ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE The role of the Chairman The role of the Chief Executive The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions for the effective The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and the operational working of the Board and is specifically responsible for the following: and performance management of the Company within the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
Chairing Board meetings and setting the agenda for such meetings, taking full account of the issues and concerns of all directors and The Chief Executive is specifically responsible for the following in encouraging their active engagement in Board discussion.
respect of his her relationship with the Board: Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance, including Developing a business strategy for the Company to be approved compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance by the Board on an annual basis.
Producing business plans for the Company to be approved by Promoting the requirement that all Board members are exemplars the Board on an annual basis.
of the Companys values, principles and standards.
Overseeing the management of the executive resource and Through the Nominations Committee, ensuring that the Board succession planning processes and presenting annually the comprises individuals with an appropriate mixture of skills, experience output from these to the Board and Nominations Committee.
Ensuring that effective business and financial controls and risk Ensuring that the Company maintains effective communication with management processes are in place across the Company and that shareholders and that their views and any concerns are understood all relevant laws and regulations are complied with.
Making recommendations to the Board on the appropriate delegation Working with the Chief Executive to ensure that the Board receives of authority within the Group.
accurate and timely information on the performance of the Company.
Keeping the Board informed regularly as to the performance of the Representing the Company at the highest level and in conjunction Company and bringing promptly to the Boards attention all matters with the Chief Executive developing strategic relationships with that materially affect, or are capable of materially affecting, the major customers.
performance of the Company and the achievement of its strategy.
Leading the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees Developing for the Boards approval appropriate values and and individual directors.
standards to guide all activities undertaken by the Company.
Establishing an effective working relationship with the Chief Executive, Providing clear and visible leadership in responsible business conduct.
providing support and advice whilst respecting executive responsibility.
Promoting the requirement that all Senior Leaders are exemplars Ensuring that a well constructed induction programme is provided for of the Companys values, principles and standards.
new directors, that all directors have the opportunity to develop their understanding of the Company and that they are kept informed of Owning the Companys commitment to all aspects of matters affecting the Company.
com As reported elsewhere in these reports, during 2009 the Company Core business processes covering business planning, project completed the initial phase of the implementation of the recommendations management, mergers and acquisitions, individual executive in the Woolf Report.
An analysis of this activity is a good illustration of performance, and management of performance against business the different roles of the Board and the executive within our governance objectives, measures and milestones.
The Board appointed Lord Woolf to lead an independent expert Delegated responsibilities dealing with the Boards delegation committee looking at the Companys ethical policies and processes.
On of authority concerning financial, commercial and legal matters.
receipt of the report the Board asked the Chief Executive to implement the recommendations and embed them into the Companys activities.
We recognise that documenting a companys values, standards In considering how to achieve this, the Chief Executive spent a good deal and processes comprehensively is just one element of an effective of time working with his senior executives to redefine the Groups values, governance process.
The essential requirement, and often the most and ensuring that our processes and procedures reflect these values and demanding, is to ensure that it is embedded and operating effectively continue to provide us with a robust framework within which to deliver across a companys operations.
The Board and its committees monitor strategic and operational performance.
the application of values, standards and processes.
This includes a range of activities such as the formal review of the effectiveness of At a board meeting held in November last year, the Chief Executive internal controls see page 85. presented his proposals on how he wished to take the Company forward, incorporating the recommendations in the Woolf Report into a coherent Shareholder engagement set of values, policies and processes.
In addition, the Board agreed The AGM is a core element of our engagement with all shareholders and certain actions to ensure that it addressed the recommendations in the it would be wrong to think of it as little more than an event only involving Woolf Report concerning the directors, the Board and its committees in those who are able to attend the meeting.
It works in a number of particular.
The changes agreed by the Board have been incorporated into different ways for different shareholders whether they are large updated versions of the following documents that form the basis of the institutional investors or smaller retail investors, all have the opportunity Boards and the Groups governance framework: to participate in this important element of the Companys governance.
Board Charter and Board Procedures Manual the Charter sets out BAE Systems has over 100,000 shareholders, the vast majority of the Boards governance principles, matters reserved for the Board, whom do not wish or are unable to attend the actual meeting.
However, and the specific responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and all shareholders have the opportunity to ensure that their shares are Senior Independent Director.
The Manual details certain duties and voted on.
To help facilitate this we provide the following: rules governing the activities of directors, and also the processes and Electronic and postal voting shareholders can vote on all the ways of work that have been adopted by the Board.
resolutions either electronically via our website or by post.
Operational Framework this document is based on principles of good Questions & Answers all shareholders have the opportunity to governance, and details the set of values, policies and processes that submit questions by e-mail or post and we address the issues that guide the work and behaviour of Group employees and also includes a arise most frequently in these questions in the answers provided on clear system of delegated responsibilities.
The nature of the relationship between the Board and executive Polls all the resolutions detailed in the Notice of Meeting are voted management is reflected in our governance framework.
The Board on by way of a poll.
This ensures that all votes are counted on the Charter and Board Procedures Manual deal solely with the operation basis of one vote for every share held, as against voting on a show of the Board and how it discharges its responsibilities: parts of these of hands which results in only attendees at the meeting deciding on documents reflect certain elements of the Companys Articles of the resolutions.
Association and the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Charter and Procedures Manual effectively only apply to the small group of individuals Results we publish the results of the voting on all resolutions on who sit on the Board, and it is the Operational Framework and the Code of our website.
Conduct that are the key documents for the Group as a whole, governing Those who are able to attend our AGM have the opportunity to ask the activities of all its employees.
questions and hear the views of other shareholders before deciding Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for the success of the Company, how to cast their votes.
I want the AGM to be a rewarding experience given the size and complexity of its operations, all but the most important for attendees, and in recent years we have striven to achieve this by matters are managed on a delegated basis by the Chief Executive and providing a video and a presentation on the Companys performance the executives working for him.
The Board appoints the Chief Executive in addition to the usual question and answer forum, and voting on the and monitors his performance in leading the Company and providing resolutions.
Also, after the meeting shareholders have the opportunity operational and performance management in delivering the agreed to meet directors informally over lunch.
Specifically, he is responsible for developing, for the Boards Succession planning approval, appropriate values and standards to guide all activities Succession planning is used by the Board to deliver two key undertaken by the Company and also making recommendations on responsibilities, firstly to ensure that the Group is managed by appropriate delegated responsibilities.
The Operational Framework executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge, is the output from this process.
It is a document that has evolved over and secondly to ensure that the Board itself has the right balance of time, subject to a formal six monthly review process that culminates in individuals to be able to effectively discharge its responsibilities.
The the Boards review and approval.
In approving it the Board is agreeing Nominations Committee has specific responsibilities in this area and the following: these are described more fully in the following reports.
However, the Performance requirements and values i. e. Total Performance Board as a whole has a role to play in overseeing the development and the Values underpinning it.
of management resources in the Group.
As with any other resource, this has to be carefully managed with the aim of ensuring we have the Organisation structure the roles and accountabilities of the individuals with the right skills to meet the needs of an increasingly Board and certain senior individuals.
complex and global business that is evolving all the time.
Specifically, Governance standards the Groups trading principles, the Board wants to see depth and quality in the ranks of individual internal controls, operational assurance framework and risk executives that one day will be candidates for appointment to board management framework.
Robust processes are in place to help us in this task and BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 81 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED progress is being made in developing the increasingly diverse management CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT resource required to continue to deliver our strategy of being the premier Applying the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance global defence, security and aerospace company.
We drew on these The Board has structured its activities so as to incorporate the main and processes during the year in Linda Hudsons appointment to the Board supporting principles in the UKs Combined Code, recognising these to as Chief Operating Officer, President and CEO of BAE Systems, Inc. be a sound statement of accepted good practice for a company such as Our succession planning for non-executive directors is based on BAE Systems.
The core activities of the Board and its committees are maintaining over time a complement of eight such directors.
At times documented and planned on an annual basis but this only forms the there will be slightly more or less as we recruit to fill actual or forthcoming basic structure within which the Board operates.
The directors are vacancies, for example Paul Anderson joined the Board in October 2009 required to provide entrepreneurial leadership for the Company, relying in anticipation of Phil Carrolls retirement in May 2010 and Nick Rose on the business skills and judgement that each director possesses.
The recently joined the Board following Sir Nigel Rudds retirement at the end governance structure recognises this essential human element and the of the year.
The Nominations Committee actively manages non-executive role of the Chairman in ensuring that decisions are made by the directors director succession based on anticipated retirement dates for existing within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
directors and looks to initiate focused search activity well in advance of The Board has adopted a document, the Board Charter, in which there such dates.
The membership of board committees is an important factor is a statement of governance principles that guide the activities of the in succession planning, particularly with regards to the individuals who Board and also details of the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and chair our Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees.
The governance principles reflect the I am pleased to report that, when we were recruiting last year, there were main and supporting principles contained in the Combined Code, and a number of excellent individuals available enabling us to select from cover the following: high-quality candidate short-lists.
Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: The BAE Systems Board has changed a good deal in recent years and our governance structure has evolved to keep pace with a complex and ever Performance monitoring the performance of the Group and also changing company.
We will continue to look to current and evolving best evaluating its own performance: practice as a guide in meeting the governance expectations of our Standards and Values setting standards and values to guide shareholders and the wider stakeholder community.
the affairs of the Group: Oversight ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate information on the performance of the Group and the proper delegation of authority: and People ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with the necessary skills and experience, and that appointments to the Board are managed effectively.
Dick Olver Chairman The Board Charter states that the Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and operational management of the Company within the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
Included within the Charter is a schedule of matters that have been reserved for the Boards decision.
These include approving the vision, values, principles of ethical conduct, overall governance structure of the Company, and its strategy and business plans.
Within the Boards delegated authorities it has reserved for itself, amongst other things, certain decisions concerning contract bids and tenders, acquisitions and disposals of businesses, capital expenditure and Company-funded product development expenditure.
A copy of the Board Charter can be found on the Companys website, or alternatively, can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Board The Board comprises a non-executive chairman, nine non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2009 is shown in the table opposite.
The Board considers all of the non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman, to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Each of these directors has been identified on pages 76 and 77 of this report.
Following appointment to the Board, directors undertake an induction programme aimed at familiarising them with the Company.
The programme for directors joining during 2009 included the following: Directors duties, corporate governance and board procedures: Business planning and internal control processes: Strategy and planning: 82 www.
com Metrics used to monitor business performance: The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting their reasons for supporting the re-election of those directors seeking Investor relations: re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate responsibility including ethical business conduct, and Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code health and safety : and The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout 2009.
Internal control In addition to the above, as part of the induction process, new directors The Company recently announced that it had reached a global will typically visit the Groups principal operations in order to meet settlement with the US Department of Justice DoJ and the UK Serious employees and gain an understanding of the Groups products and Fraud Office SFO in connection with long running investigations.
On-going training is provided for the Board and individual These settlements enable the Company to deal finally with significant directors as required.
The Board has reviewed the control failures associated Mr Quarta is a partner in Clayton, Dubilier & Rice CDR and Mr Olver is an with the DoJ and SFO settlements and believes that the Company has adviser to that firm.
The Board has considered Mr Quartas independence systematically enhanced relevant compliance policies and processes in light of the provisions in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code since the conduct referred to in the settlements occurred.
concerning significant links with other directors through involvement with In 2007 the Board appointed an independent committee, the Woolf other companies or bodies.
Following review, the Board considers that, Committee, to: for the purposes of the Code, their relationship through CDR does not constitute a significant link.
In reaching this determination the following identify the high ethical standards to which a global company matters were taken into consideration: should adhere: as an adviser to CDR Mr Olver has no management responsibilities or identify the extent to which the Company may currently meet these oversight obligations in respect of CDR or any of its investments: and standards: and Mr Olver has no involvement with the companies that Mr Quarta is recommend the action that the Company should take to achieve such standards.
a director of, or has management responsibility for, within CDR.
The Committee published its report in 2008 and made 23 Mr Olver has undertaken to advise the Board should there be any recommendations for the Company aimed at achieving leadership material change in his relationship with CDR whilst Mr Quarta has standards of responsible business conduct.
an involvement with that firm.
The Board believes that, under the leadership of the Chief Executive, In 2009, the Board was scheduled to meet eight times and in addition good progress has been made in implementing the recommendations one day was spent reviewing strategy.
Additional Board meetings are in the Woolf Committees report.
All of the recommendations have been called as required and in total the Board met nine times during the year.
embedded into the Operational Framework, which sets the values, The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as the Senior Independent policies and processes that guide the work and behaviour of all Group Director.
Amongst the duties undertaken by Sir Peter during the year was employees.
Also, the Company has successfully rolled-out a code of to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present to conduct for employees an essential element of the drive to embed discuss the Chairmans performance.
high standards of responsible business conduct across the Group.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all new directors seek The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups re-election to the Board at the following Annual General Meeting AGM.
system of internal controls, including financial, operational and In addition, all directors are required to stand down and seek re-election compliance controls and risk management systems, in accordance to the Board at least once every three years.
with the Combined Code and the Turnbull guidance as revised.
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2009 was as follows: Corporate Non-Executive Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors Fees Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 2 Mr P M Anderson 2 2 Mr P J Carroll 9 9 9 9 Mr M J Hartnall 9 9 6 6 1 Mr W P Havenstein 5 5 1 1 3 Ms L P Hudson 2 2 Mr A G Inglis 8 9 5 5 Mr I G King 9 9 1 1 Sir Peter Mason 9 9 6 6 2 2 9 9 Mr R L Olver 9 9 9 9 2 2 1 1 Mr R Quarta 8 9 5 6 6 6 Mr G W Rose 8 9 4 Sir Nigel Rudd 7 9 3 3 4 6 Mr C G Symon 9 9 6 6 Mr R K Uppal 8 9 4 5 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 Resigned from the Board on 21 June 2009.
2 Appointed to the Board on 8 October 2009.
3 Appointed to the Board on 26 October 2009.
4 Retired from the Board on 31 December 2009.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 83 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BAE Systems has developed a system of internal control that was in The OAS requires that each part of the business completes a formal place throughout 2009 and to the date of this report, that encompasses, review of its compliance against the Operational Framework, including amongst other things, the policies, processes, tasks and behaviours operational and financial controls, and risk management processes.
It is that, taken together, seek to: signed-off by the managing director of every line of business and relevant functional directors.
The OAS is completed every six months and facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Company includes a formal assessment of business risk.
by enabling it to respond appropriately to significant operational, financial, compliance and other risks that it faces in carrying out The overall responsibility for the system of internal control within its business: BAE Systems rests with the directors of the Company.
Responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the assist in ensuring that internal and external reporting is accurate line leaders of each operating business.
and timely, and based on the maintenance of proper records supported by robust  processes: and In line with any system of internal control, the policies and processes that are mandated in the Operational Framework are designed to assist in ensuring that the Company complies with applicable laws manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business and regulations at all times, and also internal policies in respect of objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the standards of behaviour and conduct mandated by the Board.
against material misstatement or loss.
Reporting within the Company is structured so that key issues are The responsibility for internal control procedures with joint ventures and escalated through the management team ultimately to the Board if other collaborations rests, on the whole, with the senior management appropriate.
The Operational Framework provides a common framework of those operations.
The Company monitors its investments and exerts across the Company for operational and financial controls, and is influence through board representation.
reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
The business policies and processes detailed within the Operational Framework draw on global Going concern best practice and their application is mandated across the organisation.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Lifecycle Management LCM is such a process, and promotes the its future development, performance and position are set out in the application of best practice programme execution and facilitates Operating group reviews on pages 54 to 73.
The financial position of the continuous improvement across the Group.
It considers the whole life Group, including information on order book, cash flow, treasury policy and of projects from inception to delivery into service and eventual disposal, liquidity, can be found in the Financial review on pages 30 to 36.
Principal and its application is critical to our capability in delivering projects to risks are detailed on pages 48 to 51.
In addition, the financial statements schedule and cost.
include, amongst other things, notes on finance costs page 134, loans and overdrafts page 148, and financial risk management page 167.
Further key processes are Integrated Business Planning IBP, Quarterly Business Reviews QBR and Total Performance Leadership TPL.
The After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation IBP, approved annually by the Board, results in an agreed long-term that the Group has adequate resources to continue operational existence strategy for each operating group, together with detailed near-term for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the budgets.
The QBRs evaluate progress against the IBP and business going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
performance against objectives, measures and milestones.
TPL drives Relations with shareholders business success by linking individual goals to those of the organisation, The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme enabling employees to understand how their own success contributes to managed by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor the success of the whole business.
In addition, the Chairman is in regular contact with Whilst the quality of the control processes is fundamental to the overall major shareholders and looks to keep them informed of progress on control environment, the consistent application of these processes is corporate governance matters.
In order to assist in developing an equally important.
The consistent application of world-class control understanding of the views of major shareholders, each year the processes is a key management objective.
The Company is committed to Company commissions a survey of investors undertaken by external the protection of its assets, which include human, property and financial consultants.
The results of the survey are presented to the Board.
resources, through an effective risk management process, underpinned The Company maintains a comprehensive Investor Relations website where appropriate by insurance.
that provides, amongst other things, information on investing in The Internal Audit team independently reviews the risk identification BAE Systems and copies of the presentation materials used for key procedures and control processes implemented by management.
This can be accessed via the Companys provides objective assurance as to the operation and validity of the website, www.
com systems of internal control through a programme of cyclical reviews making On behalf of the Board recommendations for business and control improvements as required.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
Having undertaken such reviews, the Committee reports to the Board on its findings so that the Board as a whole can take a view on this matter.
In order to assist the Audit Committee and the Board in this review, the Company has developed the Operational Assurance Statement OAS process.
This has been subject to regular review over a number of years, which has resulted in a number of refinements Dick Olver Chairman being made.
com Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2009.
Nick Rose and Ravi Uppal joined the Committee on 17 February 2010.
All its members are Members independent in accordance with provision A.
Michael Hartnall Chairman Sir Peter Mason Michael Hartnall has been chairman of the Committee since 2003.
Roberto Quarta He was formerly the finance director of a FTSE 100 company and is a Nick Rose fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Ravi Uppal The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group Finance Responsibilities Director, Director Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury, and the Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial head of Internal Audit normally attend its meetings.
reporting, internal control policies and procedures for During the year, the Committee held individual meetings without Group the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
executives present, without the head of Internal Audit present, solely Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
with the head of Internal Audit present, and also solely with the external auditors present.
Reviewing significant financial reporting issues The external auditors and head of Internal Audit have direct access to and judgements.
the Chairman of the Committee.
Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit The Committee may obtain at the Companys expense independent function including approving the appointment or removal professional advice on any matters covered by its terms of reference.
of the head of Internal Audit.
The Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best Approving an annual programme of internal audit work.
undertaken by the external Auditors.
The Committee reviews regularly the amount and nature of non-audit work they perform.
It believes that Considering and making recommendations to the Board it is not appropriate to limit the level of such work by reference to a set on the appointment of the Auditors.
percentage of the audit work fee, as this does not take into account Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review, important judgements that need to be made concerning the nature including the terms of their engagement and fees, their of work undertaken to help safeguard the Auditors independence.
However, the Committee has agreed the following: independence and expertise, resources and qualification, and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
any non-audit work to be undertaken by the Auditors in excess of 250,000 must be authorised by both the Chairman of the Audit Agreeing the scope of the Auditors annual audit Committee and the Group Finance Director: programme and reviewing the output.
no partner director of the Auditors worldwide audit team shall be employed by the Group within two years of the conclusion of a relevant The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found audit: on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis.
no qualified member of the worldwide audit team at manager level or below is to be employed by the Group within two years of the conclusion of a relevant audit: and no partner director of the Auditors not associated with the audit is to be employed by the Group without the approval of the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part of the Boards externally facilitated evaluation process.
The Committee met six times in 2009.
Activities The principal activities undertaken by the Committee in the period under review are set out below.
Internal controls and risk The Committee received and considered reports during the year from the Groups Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and the Groups Internal Audit function on the work they had undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment, in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Groups internal controls framework, which is based on a set of core processes that have been developed over a number of years, is documented in the Operational Framework further information on which is provided on page 81.
Twice during the year, the Committee reviewed the results of the Groups Operational Assurance Statement OAS process, through which senior managers across the Group report Michael Hartnall on the quality of their businesses implementation and compliance Audit Committee Chairman with the policies mandated in the Operational Framework.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 85 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Committee reviewed the output from the OAS process that requires CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT managers to evaluate, identify and report on significant risks to the delivery of their business plans, and to report on the status of plans Members to mitigate such risks.
Andy Inglis Chairman Sir Peter Mason The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal Paul Anderson controls and reviewed the related disclosures in the Annual Report.
Responsibilities As part of the Committees programme to gain a greater awareness Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of the Groups operations and to understand in more detail the implementation of core control processes, it met with: of strategy and policy on social, environmental and ethical matters.
senior executives from the Groups Military Air Solutions business based in Warton, Lancashire: Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control policies and procedures for the management of the BAE Systems Surface Ships business at identification, assessment, management and reporting of its Glasgow shipyard shortly after the Companys acquisition of reputational risks, including health and safety, workplace VT Groups 45% shareholding in BVT: and policies, environmental impact and business ethics.
the Pensions Director and the Director, Insurable Risk Services, to receive individual reports on the Groups pension and insurance Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness arrangements, respectively.
of the Companys Internal Audit function in relation to Corporate Responsibility CR, and monitoring the Financial reporting development of the capability and capacity of the function The Committee: to perform its role with regards to CR assurance and in reviewed the financial statements and, as part of this process, the particular, ethical business conduct.
significant financial reporting judgements contained within them: Reviewing audit and assurance reports produced by reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going the CR Assurer an independent entity appointed to concern basis, including the analysis supporting the going concern act as an external assurer of the Companys CR judgement and disclosures in the financial statements: reporting and assess management responsiveness reviewed the financial statements in the 2008 and 2009 Annual to recommendations in such reports.
Reports, and the 2009 Half-Yearly Report, and received a report from the Auditors on the statements: and Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on social, environmental and ethical issues.
reviewed the two Interim Management Statements prior to their publication in May and October 2009.
Making proposals to the Remuneration Committee Internal Audit regarding appropriate CR-related performance objectives The Committee: for executive directors and, in due course, providing its assessment as to performance against such objectives.
reviewed output from the internal audit programme twice during the year and considered progress against the programme: Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to obtain further advice on ethical issues or raise and agreed the internal audit programme for 2010: and report concerns, in confidence, where there may be reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
This will include the Companys External auditors Ethics Helpline.
The Committee: Monitoring the implementation of the Woolf Report agreed the approach and scope of the audit work to be undertaken and ensure that the global Code of Conduct is regularly by the Auditors: reviewed and reflects best practice for such codes.
reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the Ensuring the Corporate Responsibility Report includes Auditors and the statement concerning such disclosure in the Annual an examination of ethical business conduct within Report: and the Company.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Auditors and agreed the fees payable The full terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility Committee in respect of the 2009 audit work.
It also received assurances from can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the the Auditors regarding their independence.
On the basis of this review Company Secretary.
the Committee recommended to the Board that it recommend that shareholders support the re-appointment of the Auditors at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Michael Hartnall Audit Committee Chairman Andy Inglis Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 86 www.
com Governance CR assurer the Committee reviewed a report from the CR Assurer, The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout 2009 Deloitte LLP, dealing with the assurance work they undertook on the and all its members were independent in accordance with provision Companys 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Ethics Helpline during the year the Committee reviewed the operation of the Ethics Helpline and details of the issues raised during the year.
Sir Nigel Rudd was a member of the committee up to 18 November 2009.
Sir Peter Mason was appointed as a member with effect from Corporate Responsibility Report the Committee reviewed and the same date.
approved the Companys 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Ravi Uppal also served as a member of the Committee up to 17 February Terms of reference the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and 2010.
Paul Anderson was appointed to the Committee with effect from recommended that certain changes be made to align its future activities the same date.
more fully with the recommendations in the Woolf Committees report.
The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group General On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Counsel, Group HR Director, Managing Director Corporate Responsibility, Deputy Managing Director Corporate Responsibility and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend its meetings.
Andy Inglis Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman The head of the Companys Internal Audit function and Managing Director Corporate Responsibility have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for appointing the CR Assurer presently Deloitte LLP and keeping under review its fees, independence and objectivity, scope of work and the expertise and resources available to it.
The Committee may obtain at the Companys expense independent professional advice on any matters covered by its terms of reference.
The Committee met five times in 2009.
Activities The principal activities undertaken by the Committee during 2009 were as follows: CR objectives the Committee agreed management objectives at the start of the year dealing with the following three CR-related matters: safety: business conduct: and diversity and inclusion.
At meetings held during the year the Committee reviewed progress against these objectives.
One such meeting was held at one of the Companys major manufacturing sites which provided directors with the opportunity to view the matters covered by the objectives at first hand.
Actual performance against the measures agreed for the 2009 objectives was determined by the Committee at the end of the year and a recommendation was made to the Remuneration Committee as to the level of bonus payable to executive directors as a consequence of this.
The Committee has agreed CR-related management objectives for 2010.
Non-financial risk review the Committee reviewed the output from the Companys non-financial risk management process and the status of the mitigation actions for the risks identified.
Internal Audit the Committee received reports from the head of the Companys Internal Audit function covering CR-related audit work undertaken during the year.
He also provided the Committee with details of the output from the Companys Operational Assurance Statement OAS process a half-yearly self assessment process by which businesses and functional heads report on their compliance with the Companys governance requirements and identify key risks.
Responsible business conduct during the year the Committee monitored managements progress against the milestones set for the implementation of the recommendations in the Woolf Report.
In addition, the Committee monitored the roll-out of the Companys Code of Conduct across the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 87 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Governance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2009.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilst he is not deemed to be Members independent, the other two members of the committee are independent Dick Olver Chairman non-executive directors in accordance with provision A.
3.1 of the Phil Carroll Combined Code.
Sir Peter Mason When dealing with any matters concerning his membership of the Board Responsibilities the Chairman will absent himself from the meeting of the Committee as Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of required and meetings will be chaired by Sir Peter Mason, the Boards the Board and making recommendations to the Board on Senior Independent Director.
The Committee normally asks the Chief Executive and Group HR Director Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable to attend its meetings.
candidates to fill all vacancies for non-executive and, with During the year, the Committee retained the services of Zygos Partners the assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors.
to assist in identifying potential non-executive director candidates for nomination to the Board.
Planning for the orderly succession of new directors to the Board.
The Committee met nine times in 2009.
Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees.
The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Dick Olver Nominations Committee Chairman 88 www.
com Activities Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of three years and prior The principal activities undertaken by the Committee in the period under to the end of such a term the Committee is responsible for ensuring that review are set out below.
the individual director is consulted on whether he wishes to remain a director, and if he does, to consider whether it would be appropriate Succession to recommend to the Board that he serve for a further three-year term The Committee is responsible for reviewing the plans and processes or shorter.
aimed at ensuring that the Company has a senior executive resource with the necessary skills and experience to meet the Groups future During the year, Sir Nigel Rudd advised the Committee that, due to other needs.
On an annual basis the Committee receives a detailed report on commitments, he did not wish to serve for a further term but agreed the Groups senior executive planning and development processes.
This to remain on the Board until the end of 2009.
Phil Carroll, who had covers the succession plans for key operational and functional positions previously agreed to extend his term of office by one year, agreed to including existing executive director appointments and development a further extension up to the date of the 2010 AGM.
Having consulted priorities and plans for individuals covered by the analysis.
with Mr Hartnall, the Committee agreed to extend his term of office for a third three-year term and agreed that it would plan for an appropriate The Committee also reviewed the long-term succession plans for nonindividual to be available to succeed him in due course as chairman executive directors looking at the balance of skills and experience of the Audit Committee.
In addition, this analysis was applied to the board committees.
Board committee membership The Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate individuals Two non-executive recruitment priorities were identified by the Committee for membership of the Boards committees.
A number of changes were during the year.
On the basis of the analysis undertaken by the Committee made to committees during the year to ensure that they comprised on the background, experience and skills required for these particular individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience, and positions, external search consultants, Zygos Partners, were engaged also that they comply with the requirements of the Companys Articles to draw-up a long-list of possible candidates for the Committees of Association.
Following further review, short-listed candidates met with Committee members and candidates for nomination to the Board were Conict of interest identified.
All Board members were provided with the opportunity to meet As required by the procedures adopted by the Board to deal with the the candidates prior to formally considering their appointment.
In addition, authorisation of potential conflicts of interest in accordance with UK the candidates were encouraged to undertake their own due diligence on company law, the Committee reviewed such authorisations previously the Company, and, to this end, members of executive management were agreed by the Board and made recommendations regarding its renewal.
At the end of this process, Paul Anderson and Nick Board performance evaluation Rose were appointed to the Board to serve as non-executive directors.
In his capacity as Chairman of the Board, Mr Olver consulted the During the year, similar rigour was applied to the process used by the Committee on the annual performance evaluation of the Board, the Committee in the appointment of Linda Hudson to succeed Walt committees and the directors.
The Committee agreed it was appropriate Havenstein as head of our US business.
The succession planning to continue to use the services of Sheena Crane, an experienced processes that we have developed over the last few years had clearly consultant, to facilitate this.
identified Linda as a succession candidate for this position and, after On behalf of the Nominations Committee validating the internal position against the external market using professional search consultants, the Nominations Committee nominated her for appointment.
Dick Olver Nominations Committee Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 89
