Report of the Directors Corporate Governance The Board believes that, in terms of the overall direction and control of the Company, effective corporate governance will come principally from the values, standards and disciplines it seeks to apply in dealings with shareholders, customers, staff, suppliers, contractors and other stakeholders.
Many of the Companys core values and standards are set out in a range of procedures and practice guidelines communicated throughout the Group.
However, external governance codes set the framework for the Groups internal standards and it therefore seeks to comply with established best practice in all areas of corporate governance.
Statement of compliance with Code provisions The Company recognises the importance of maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance in all areas of its business.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2009 the Company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code as detailed below.
A copy of the Code is publically available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Board Composition The Company is led and controlled by the Group Board.
The names, responsibilities and other details of the Group Board Directors are set out on pages 24 and 25 of this report.
Mr R A Lawson was appointed Chairman of the Company with effect from 1 July 2008.
He is also currently the Chairman of Hays Plc, the specialist recruitment company and a Director of The Federation of Groundwork Trusts.
Mr C G Toner retired as Chairman and from the Group Board on 30 June 2008 and Mr M Pescod resigned from the Board on 31 December 2008.
At the end of the financial year the Board comprised nine members, including the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The Company therefore complied during the relevant period with the principles of the Code in relation to the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The number and calibre of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, together with their diverse backgrounds and experience, also ensures that this principle is met.
On 1 July 2009, the number of Non-Executive Directors not including the Chairman increased to five when Miss T E Bamford joined the Board.
Miss T E Bamford is also currently a Director of Cantos Communications Limited and has a broad finance and business development background which is expected to prove a great asset to the Company.
On 21 July 2009, Mr M A Pain stepped down as an Executive Director and as Group Finance Director and was replaced by Mr D F Thomas.
Mr D F Thomas has a strong track record as a Finance Director having held this position at The GAME Group plc and at Millennium and Copthorne Hotels plc.
This financial background combined with his wider operational experience is expected to prove to be extremely useful to the development of the Groups business.
Board responsibilities The Board has overall authority for the conduct of the business of the Group.
There are a number of matters that have been specifically reserved for the Board, these include: determination and approval of matters relating to the strategy and management of the Group, including approval of long-term objectives and commercial strategy, extension of the Groups activities into new businesses geographic areas: determination of the structure and capital of the Company such as changes to the Groups management and control structure, share issues or buy back of shares: approval of financial reporting and controls such as interim and annual results announcements, the Group Annual Report and Accounts, dividend payments, accounting and treasury polices: establishment of effective systems of delegation and internal control and the annual review of their effectiveness: authorising material acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital projects and other significant transactions: monitoring the Groups overall performance in relation to its strategies, plans, budgets and decisions: and authorisation of conflicts of interest following recommendations from the Audit Committee.
Retirement and re-election of Directors In accordance with best corporate governance practice, the Companys Articles of Association require Directors to retire at intervals of no more than three years at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Accordingly, Mr M S Clare and Mr S J Boyes will retire in consequence of the period since their last re-election and, being eligible, each will offer himself for re-election at this years AGM.
In addition, Mr D F Thomas and Miss T E Bamford, having been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, will retire at this years AGM and offer themselves for election.
32 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Information and professional development On joining the Company, each new Director participates in an induction process which includes a meeting with all of the current Directors, provision of an induction pack, site visits and meetings with senior and operational management teams.
The Directors update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company by attending appropriate external seminars and training courses, meeting with senior management and visiting regional and divisional operating offices.
In January 2009, the Board met for a full day to review and develop the overall business strategy of the Group which included presentations from senior management within the Group as well as external professionals.
Each Director is issued with an agenda, briefing papers and comprehensive operating and financial management reports for the period under review at least a week before any Board Meeting.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary attends all Board and Committee Meetings and all Directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense to assist with the discharge of their responsibilities as Directors.
Any Director who is unable to attend a meeting presents his apologies and is invited to provide his views to the Chairman ahead of the meeting having reviewed the agenda, briefing papers and management information.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary will meet with the absent Director after the meeting to go through any action points which are of relevance to that Director.
Formal minutes of each Board meeting are prepared, circulated and submitted for approval at the next meeting.
Independence and effectiveness The Board believes that the Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors are independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence or judgement.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, for setting its agenda and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of the NonExecutive Directors and also ensures that the Board receives timely and accurate information so as to properly conduct its business as well as ensuring that communications with shareholders are effective.
The Senior Independent Director has specific responsibility for co-ordinating the evaluation by the Nominations Committee of the Chairmans effectiveness as well as being a point of contact for shareholders in the event of there being any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive have failed adequately to address.
The current Senior Independent Director is Mr R J Davies.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met on two occasions during the year independently of the Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director met once during the course of the year with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the Chairman, to assess the performance of the Chairman.
Directors conflicts of interest On 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 codified the duty to avoid conflicts of interests, by which Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or may have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the Company.
This duty applies to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity regardless of whether the Company could have taken advantage of it.
The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the AGM held on 18 November 2008 to include a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
The Board has, in accordance with its Articles of Association and best practice guidance, authorised the Audit and Nominations Committees to oversee the process for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board concerning any actual and or potential conflicts of interest which arise or may arise in relation to each member of the Board and this process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary maintains a Register of Directors conflicts of interests which is reviewed every six months by the Audit Committee who then make recommendations to the Board in respect of any changes to the authorisations that may be required.
Each Director is responsible, and is aware of his responsibility, to notify the Audit Committee and or the Board of any new conflicts or possible conflicts and of any change in circumstances relating to authorisations already given.
The Board, when authorising any conflict or possible conflict of Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance interest, does not count in the quorum the Director whose conflict or possible conflict is being discussed and reserves the right to exclude a Director from a meeting whilst a conflict or possible conflict is being considered.
Board Committees The Board has established three standing Committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
It also has an Executive Committee which is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
Terms of Reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available on the Companys website www.
Membership and attendance of each Committee is shown in the table on page 36.
The Audit Committee All members of the Audit Committee, as identified in the table on page 36, are independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with Code provision C. 3.1.
The Board is satisfied that Mr M E Rolfe, who is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and was formerly the Finance Director of Gallaher Group Plc, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee met on five occasions during the financial year.
The attendance at each of these meetings is set out in the table on page 36 of this report.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other members of senior management and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as required.
Principal responsibilities Under its Terms of Reference the Audit Committees principal responsibilities are: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance: reviewing and challenging where necessary the consistency of, and changes to, its accounting policies: monitoring the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: monitoring the Groups financial management and reporting systems and assessing the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting procedures, system of internal control and the process for identifying and monitoring the risks facing the Group: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the annual internal audit plan and all reports produced by the internal auditor and managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor: reviewing whistleblowing procedures and ensuring arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and follow-up action: and reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on the authorisation of Directors conflicts of interest.
The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee are available from the Companys website www.
As well as carrying out the work associated with the annual financial reporting cycle, the Audit Committee discharged a number of principal responsibilities during the year including, inter alia, the review of: the effectiveness of internal control systems: the Audit Committees Terms of Reference: auditor independence and non-audit fees policy: the whistleblowing policy: the internal audit plan: key accounting policies: judgements and issues: the external audit plan and associated reports and re-appointment of the external auditors.
Re-appointment of Auditors The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as the Auditors to the Company in September 2009.
On the basis that Deloitte had been appointed as the Companys auditors, replacing  LLP, following a competitive tender in 2007 the Audit Committee made a recommendation to the Board to propose a resolution re-appointing Deloitte as the Auditors to the Company at the AGM to be held on 17 November 2009.
Auditor objectivity and independence Deloitte did provide non-audit related services during the year primarily relating to corporate finance services, financial modelling and advice on accounting and internal control matters.
The Company has also developed and implemented a policy on Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Fees the Policy.
The Policy sets out the duties of the Audit Committee relating to the maintenance of audit independence and non-audit fees and the services which the Auditors can and cannot provide to the Group.
34 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Under the Policy the following services should not be provided by the Auditors: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements: financial information systems design and implementation relating to the financial statements or accounting records: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions: actuarial services: internal audit outsourcing services: and management functions, legal services or Executive recruiting.
The Company is also required, under the Policy, to obtain written confirmation from the Auditors that they remain independent on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee is therefore satisfied that there are no independence issues in respect of the Auditors.
Remuneration Committee All members of the Remuneration Committee, as set out in the table on page 36, are considered by the Company to be independent in accordance with Code provision B.
Miss T E Bamford joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2009 and is considered to be independent by the Company.
The Remuneration Committee met on three occasions during the financial year.
Attendance at each of these meetings is set out in the table on page 36 of this report.
Principal responsibilities The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities include: determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the Company with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors and senior managers of the experience and calibre required: determining and reviewing executive remuneration policy, including the terms and conditions of employment for Executive Directors and their individual remuneration packages: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the remuneration of the Chairman: agreeing targets and benefits in respect of performance related pay schemes for all employees: approving the rules of and the basis of participation in Group share options, long-term performance plans and cash based bonus incentive schemes and the specific awards, grants and payments made under any such schemes: determining the policy for and scope of pension arrangements for Executive Directors and senior management: agreeing severance arrangements or other compensation for loss of office or early retirement for all employees: the evaluation of Executive Director performance with regard to the award of share incentives, annual bonus and other performance based remuneration: and obtaining independent professional advice in relation to Executive Director remuneration.
The Terms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee are available from the Companys website www.
Nominations Committee The members of the Nominations Committee, the number of meetings held and the attendance at each of these meetings are shown in the table on page 36.
Miss T E Bamford joined the Nominations Committee on 1 July 2009.
The Nominations Committees principal responsibilities include: regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board and succession planning for Directors and senior executives: identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies and evaluating the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: reviewing the leadership needs of the Group to ensure continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the market: annually reviewing the time required from Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their duties: obtaining details of and reviewing any interests of candidates which conflict or may conflict with the interests of the Company and recommending to the Board the terms and conditions on which such conflicts should be authorised: and annually reviewing the performance of the Board.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance The Terms of Reference for the Nominations Committee are available from the Companys website www.
During the year the Nominations Committee undertook a recruitment selection process involving external consultants, JCA Group Limited, which resulted in the appointment of a new Group Finance Director, Mr D F Thomas and The Zygos Partnership, which resulted in the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director, Miss T E Bamford.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal office hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and throughout the meeting.
Executive Committee The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to an Executive Committee, which is led by the Group Chief Executive.
The members of the Executive Committee are currently the Group Chief Executive, Mr M S Clare, the Group Finance Director, Mr D F Thomas, Executive Directors Mr S J Boyes and Mr C Fenton, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Mr L Dent, the Managing Director of Wilson Bowden Developments Limited, Mr N Richardson, Group Director of Corporate Affairs, Mr P Law and Group Human Resources Director, Mrs J Mee.
Membership and attendance at Board and Committee Meetings Group Audit Remuneration Nominations Name Board Committee Committee Committee Mr M S Clare 10 10 3 3 Mr S J Boyes 10 10 Mr C Fenton 10 10 Mr M A Pain 10 10 1 Mr R A Lawson Chairman 10 10 3 3 Chairman 3 3 Mr R J Davies 10 10 5 5 Chairman 3 3 2 3 Mr R MacEachrane 9 10 5 5 2 3 2 3 2 Mr M Pescod 5 5 3 3 3 Mr M E Rolfe 9 10 Chairman 5 5 3 3 Mr W Shannon 10 10 5 5 3 3 3 3 1 Mr R A Lawson was appointed Chairman of the Board and the Nominations Committee and joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2008.
2 Mr M Pescod resigned from the Board on 31 December 2008 and as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2008.
3 Mr M E Rolfe joined the Audit and Nominations Committees on 1 July 2008.
Mr M E Rolfe took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2008.
Includes one special meeting in relation to the appointment of a new Group Finance Director.
The Board also held four special meetings by conference call to approve trading updates and financial statements.
Mr S J Boyes, Mr W Shannon and Mr R J Davies were unable to attend one of these conference calls but all presented their comments to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
Mr R J Davies did not attend one Nominations Committee meeting dealing with his appointment as Senior Independent Director.
10 Indicates number of meetings held whilst a member.
10 Indicates number of meetings attended whilst a member.
Board achievement, performance evaluation and training The Nominations Committee oversees the procedure for appointment of new Directors to the Board.
All Directors joining the Board submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment and once every three years thereafter.
The names of the Directors subject to re-election at this years AGM are set out on page 32.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and normally serve a second three-year term subject to performance review and re-election.
Beyond this a third three-year term may be served subject to rigorous review.
During the year, the Board undertook a formal and structured process of evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Last year the performance evaluation was carried out using independent external consultants, Independent Audit Limited.
This year the Board decided that it would be appropriate to carry out the performance evaluation internally using a questionnaire completed by all Board members and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Central to the evaluation process are the Boards annual review of business strategy and the objectives and performance targets set by the Board each year for itself, its Committees and for the Group Chief Executive, and through him for the Executive Team, against which overall performance is measured.
In this way the evaluation is undertaken within clear parameters linked to overall strategy, operational and financial performance and the role and contribution made by the Board, its Committees and individual Directors in the attainment of agreed objectives and targets.
36 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board in July 2009, and it was agreed that the Chairman would conduct one-to-one discussions with each Board Member in respect of the evaluation results.
Following on from these meetings the Chairman, together with the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, will develop and submit an action plan to the Board to implement the recommendations arising from the evaluation and the one-to-one discussions.
Employment policy and involvement The Group is committed to developing the talents of its employees so that they can maximise their career potential and to providing rewarding careers in an atmosphere that ensures equal opportunities for all.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on the objective assessment of ability and experience, giving full and fair consideration to all applications including individuals with disabilities for employment, and the Group is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Company strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities in respect of issues such as training, career development and promotion for all existing or potential staff irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled whilst working within the Group.
The Board recognises that employee engagement is a key factor in the long-term success of the Company and has implemented a comprehensive employee engagement programme with the aim of creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are invited to take part in an engagement survey each January and the results of this survey are fed back to each operating division who use the results to formulate a plan for improving engagement during the year ahead.
A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
The Company ensures that all significant events, economic factors and financial updates and the impact of these on the performance of the Company are communicated to employees through email alerts and regular newsletters.
The Executive Committee regularly brief senior management via telephone conference calls which allow them to ask questions and enter into discussion.
The Board and the Executive Committee also visit operating divisions and working sites in order to talk to employees face to face and get first hand experience of employees aspirations and concerns.
The Group runs a Graduate Recruitment and Development Programme consisting of a two year multi-disciplinary programme of both on-job and off-job modules.
Thirty graduates have recently completed the first two year programme and have all secured full-time roles with the business and five graduates are currently entering their second year of the programme.
Succession planning is in place across the Group and there are currently four leadership development programmes in place to assist with the development of individuals as part of the succession plan.
The Group is committed to employee training and development at all levels of the organisation and has introduced a suite of leadership and management development programmes aimed at all levels within the organisation from graduates and middle management to senior management.
The programme is designed and delivered internally and is tailored to the needs of the business.
Following shareholder approval at the 2008 AGM, the Company launched, in February 2009, a savings related share option scheme to encourage employee involvement in the Companys performance.
39% of eligible employees currently participate.
Investor relations Details of the Groups management of investor relations are provided on pages 30 and 31.
Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance and financial position are set out in the Group Chief Executives statement on pages 4 to 8 and the Business review on pages 9 and 11.
The material financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may impact the Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 18 and 19 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note 26 to the financial statements.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained in the Principal risks on pages 18 and 19 factors that particularly impact upon the performance of the Group include changes in the macroeconomic environment including buyer confidence, availability of mortgage finance for our purchasers, and interest rates.
At 30 June 2009, the net debt position of the Group as shown in note 24 to the financial statements was 1,276.9m, with loans and borrowings of 1,484.1m with headroom of 800.0m to the Groups committed facilities.
The Group is currently in compliance with its financial covenants and at the date of approval of the financial statements the Groups internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance with these covenants for the foreseeable future being at least twelve months from the date of signing the financial statements.
As noted in note 36, on 23 September 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with UBS Limited, Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Barclays Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and RBS Hoare Govett Limited to fully underwrite a 720.5m equity issue, to be structured as a Placing and a Rights Issue, to strengthen the Groups balance sheet and reduce its financial indebtedness.
In conjunction with the Placing and Rights Issue, the Company has negotiated certain amendments to the terms of the Groups existing financing arrangements.
The amended financing arrangements will only come into effect if a minimum of 450m total gross proceeds are raised pursuant to the Placing and Rights Issue and, before 31 December 2009, the Company reduces its borrowings under the Wilson Bowden acquisition facilities and the Groups private placement notes by 40% such that the total amount of indebtedness thereunder does not exceed 900m excluding any indebtedness under make-whole notes that are issued as a consequence of the prepayment.
The Company has put in place arrangements to effect such prepayments following it becoming entitled to the net proceeds of the Placing and Rights Issue.
Upon such prepayments being made, 50m of undrawn commitments under each of its Revolving Credit Facilities will automatically be cancelled so that they do not exceed 700m.
The Directors expect the amended financing arrangements will enable the Group to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in a recovering market, as well as to provide an appropriate alternative framework, should a further downturn arise.
Completion of the Placing and Rights Issue is conditional upon shareholder approval at the General Meeting expected to be held on 19 October 2009, listing of the shares to be issued pursuant to the Placing and Rights Issue and upon the underwriting agreement not being terminated in accordance with its terms prior to the General Meeting.
If the Placing and Rights Issue do not proceed the amended financing arrangements will not come into effect.
Until such time as any subsequent renegotiation is concluded, the existing financing arrangements will continue to apply.
While the existing financing arrangements apply, if conditions in the wider UK economy, as they relate to the housebuilding sector, were to decline below that which has been assumed in the Groups forecasts during the current financial year and notwithstanding further management actions to both conserve and generate cash, including, if necessary, by making land sales then there is a risk that the Group might generate lower than anticipated revenues, or cash, or require further write-downs in the value of the Groups assets.
This risk may result in the Group being unable to comply with its existing covenant package during the current financial year.
If the amended financing arrangements do not come into effect, the Group will need to renegotiate the terms of its existing financing arrangements during the current financial year in order to secure the revolving credit facilities of an appropriate duration so as to give the Directors increased confidence that they will be able to prepare the accounts in respect of such a period on a going concern basis and also to secure a covenant package across all its financing arrangements that provides greater flexibility.
The above risks, that the amended financing arrangements do not become effective because the conditions to the Placing and Rights Issue are not satisfied, and that whilst the existing financial covenants remain in place the impact of a decline in the housebuilding sector may result in the Group not being able to comply with such covenants, represent a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt about the Groups ability to continue as a going concern such that the Group may be unable to realise its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.
Nevertheless, based upon the Groups expectation that conditions to the Placing and the Rights Issue will be satisfied, in addition to the Groups current trading, forecasts, and further management actions which could be taken whilst the existing financial covenants remain in place referred to above, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to comply with its financial covenants and accordingly have formed a judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements upon a going concern basis.
Therefore, these financial statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the going concern basis of preparation is inappropriate.
Internal control and risk management The Board confirms in accordance with Principle C. 2 of the Code that it has maintained a sound system of internal control, to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been in place throughout the year ended 30 June 2009 and up to 23 September 2009, which is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal control therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material 38 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential problems can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups financial statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management to implement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems in accordance with policy approved by the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups system of internal control and risk management framework are as follows: i a clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each operating division: ii ex tensive financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis: iii p rincipal risk areas are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system so that risk identification and the control of risk are a routine aspect of management responsibility.
These risks include: the market, including changes in the macroeconomic environment, sales and quality of product: liquidity, including the availability of sufficient borrowing facilities: people, including the development of a skilled and experienced workforce: subcontractors and suppliers: securing sufficient land: Government regulation, including obtaining planning permission: construction, including achieving key milestones and the impact on the environment and social surroundings: health and safety: and failure of the Groups IT systems: and iv internal control and risk management systems are supported by the Group internal audit team which is responsible for advising senior management, the Executive Directors and, through the Audit Committee, the Board on the operation and effectiveness of those systems.
The internal audit team undertakes a planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations approved by the Audit Committee, including full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas such as the land viability process, land acquisition control and monitoring, work in progress and subcontractor payment controls.
Where the internal audit team does not have the expertise or resources required to conduct complex audits they use external expertise.
For example, during the year ended 30 June 2009,  LLP assisted with the internal audit of the Group treasury function.
In accordance with Principle C2.1 of the Code the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
A risk framework has been developed for all business processes by the Internal Audit function and approved by the Audit Committee.
This framework forms the basis of the internal control audit plan for the year ahead, which tests if controls are being applied effectively in each operating division.
Material issues identified during internal audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis, and necessary actions are immediately taken to remedy any failings in the internal control system.
During the course of its review of systems of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
In addition, the management teams of all operating divisions identify key risks in their monthly management reports to the Executive Committee and complete a control self assessment twice a year in which they confirm that they have applied appropriate levels of control.
The Audit Committee, as a standing agenda item every six months, reviews the risk framework to determine if the system of internal control remains effective and report on their findings to the Board.
During the year under review, the Executive Committee prioritised the risk framework by identifying the risks considered most significant to the Group.
For each of the risks identified, an assessment has been made of the probability and potential impact on the business and these risks are reported on internally and reviewed during internal audits and control self assessments.
On behalf of the Board L Dent, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 September 2009 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39
