Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Combined Code The Board of Grainger is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which the directors see as fundamental to effective management of the business and delivery of long term shareholder value.
The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the Combined Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2003, and revised in 2008.
The board fully supports the principles set out in the Combined Code and confirms that it has complied with all of the provisions set out in Section 1 throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2009.
This report sets out Grainger s governance policies and practices and includes details of how the Group applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Role of the Board The board provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or through the operation of committees of directors and delegated authority, applies independent judgment on matters of strategy, performance, resources including key appointments and standards of behaviour.
The Board sets the Group s strategic objectives and approves and monitors business plans and budgets submitted by the executive directors and senior management.
The written statement of matters reserved to the board is reviewed and approved annually by the board and a copy is available on the group s website www.
co. uk or from the company secretary on request.
Board composition, structure and roles The board was made up of a non-executive chairman, a non-executive deputy chairman until 10 February 2009, the chief executive, the deputy chief executive and finance director, and five nonexecutive directors.
The posts of chairman and chief executive are separate and their roles and responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
A copy of the written statement of roles is available on the group s website www.
The Chairman is responsible for running the board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The chief executive reports to the chairman, as does the company secretary on matters of corporate governance.
The chairman is the guardian of the board s decision making.
The chief executive is responsible for running the business and implementing the board s decisions.
All executive management report to him, directly or indirectly.
In November 2008 the Group appointed Peter Couch as chief operating officer reporting to the chief executive and responsible for day to day management of the Group s operations in accordance with the strategy and business plans set by the board.
The chief operating officer chairs a monthly operations board meeting made up of the senior management team.
The non-executive directors are responsible for bringing independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to all matters before the board and its committees, using their substantial and wide ranging experience.
The key responsibilities of non-executive directors are set out in their letters of appointment and include requirements to: challenge and contribute to the development of strategy: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
28 Corporate Governance Report continued A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a non-executive director is available on the group s website www.
The non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present.
There were three such meetings in the year and an additional meeting of the non-executive directors without the chairman or the executive directors present.
The senior independent director is Bill Tudor John.
He is available to shareholders if they request a meeting or have concerns, which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
No such requests were received from shareholders during the year.
As senior independent director Bill Tudor John leads the annual performance review of the chairman.
He is also chairman of the remuneration committee.
Meetings There were seven meetings of the board in the year.
The board has a list of matters reserved to it and a rolling annual plan of items for discussion, agreed between the chairman and the chief executive.
The list of reserved matters and annual plan are reviewed regularly to ensure all matters reserved to the board, as well as other key issues, are discussed at the appropriate time.
At each board meeting the chief executive provided a review of the business, how it was performing and strategic issues arising.
In the year the range of subjects discussed included: The strategy of the Group in response to changing economic conditions Operational changes arising from the change to a cash conservation strategy Key business areas, including Germany, retirement solutions, residential and funds The Group s debt and capital structure The Group s financial results Dividend policy Regulatory and governance issues The development of the Group s people Five of the meetings were preceeded, the evening before, by an informal meeting allowing more time to debate issues in depth.
Three of the board meetings were held at the company s head office in Newcastle, two of the board meetings were held in the company s offices in Knightsbridge with the other meetings being held in the company s offices in Birmingham and Putney giving the board the opportunity to meet staff in a number of locations.
The chairman, together with the company secretary, ensures that the directors receive clear and relevant information on all relevant matters in a timely manner.
Board papers are circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings for them to be thoroughly digested in advance of the meeting to ensure clarity of informed debate.
The board papers contain the chief executive s written report, high level papers on each business area, key metrics and specific papers relating to agenda items.
The board papers are accompanied by a working papers pack containing detailed financial and other supporting information.
The board receives a bi-weekly update throughout the year and occasional ad hoc papers on matters of particular relevance or importance.
Throughout the year the board received presentations from various business units.
Stephen Dickinson did not attend the board meeting held immediately before the annual general meeting in February 2010 and Rupert Dickinson was absent from three meetings.
Otherwise all directors attended all board meetings.
Changes to the Board There were no appointments to the board in the year.
Stephen Dickinson stepped down as a director and as deputy chairman on the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 10 February 2009.
The nomination committee consisted throughout the year of Robin Broadhurst as chairman and Robert Hiscox and Bill Tudor John.
The nomination committee met in April 2009 to formally review the composition of the board, including the balance between executive and non-executive directors and succession planning.
29 Corporate Governance Report continued The terms of reference of the nomination committee are available on the group s website www.
Principally, the nomination committee is responsible for filling vacancies on the board, reviewing the continuation of service of directors required to retire by rotation and succession planning.
Due to the relatively small size of the board, matters which are included in the nomination committee s terms of reference are often discussed by the board as a whole.
Rupert Dickinson, the chief executive, was absent due to ill health throughout the latter part of the year, during which time Andrew Cunningham was acting chief executive.
Rupert stood down as a director and as chief executive with effect from 20 October 2009 and Andrew Cunningham has been appointed as chief executive with effect from the same date.
Andrew Cunningham continues in the role of finance director but the company is seeking to recruit a new executive finance director to the board.
The board is also considering additional appointments of executive directors in the current financial year to strengthen the board and to achieve a better balance between executive and non-executive directors.
Independence The following table sets out the board s duly considered view of the independence of the non-executive directors with reference to the criteria set out at A.
Director Board's Explanatory notes determination Robin Broadhurst Chairman Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Stephen Dickinson Deputy Chairman Not independentClose family ties Resigned 10 February 2009 - More than nine years service - Previously managing director - Part-time executive responsibilities - Participation in all-employee share scheme Bill Tudor John Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Senior Independent Director John Barnsley Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Robert R. S Hiscox Independent - Although a trustee for an Estate holding a material shareholding, the board is of the opinion that this position does not interfere with or influence his character or judgement in any way.
As Chairman of Hiscox Limited, and past deputy Chairman of Lloyds, Mr Hiscox brings extensive skills and experience in his own right, which can only be beneficial to Grainger s board - The Estate has reduced its shareholding over the past four years, from 12.5m shares to 6m shares.
Henry Pitman Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria Baroness Margaret Ford Independent Independent under A.
3.1 criteria 30 Corporate Governance Report continued The board reviews non-executive director independence on an annual basis and takes into account the individual s professional characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
The board consisted of a majority of independent non-executive directors excluding the Chairman throughout the year.
Biographical details of all the current directors are set out on page 21.
Time Commitment The board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the non-executive directors committed sufficient time during the year to fulfillment of their duties as directors of the company.
None of the non-executive directors has any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the board in accordance with the company s articles of association.
Professional development The chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training are provided to each director and the company secretary organises the induction process and regular updating and training of board members.
No new board members were appointed in the year so no induction was necessary.
Training and updating as to the business of the group and the legal and regulatory responsibilities of directors was provided by a variety of means to board members including presentations by executives, visits to business operations and circulation of briefing materials.
Individual directors are also expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs and to ensure they are adequately informed about the group and their responsibilities as a director.
The board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
Access to independent advice All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary who ensures that board processes are followed and good corporate governance standards are maintained.
Any director who considers it necessary or appropriate may take independent, professional advice at the company s expense.
None of the directors sought such advice in the year.
Performance evaluation Each year the board undertakes a formal evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and of individual directors.
The chairman led the process which was, as in previous years, in the form of a confidential survey completed by all directors in relation to the board and any committee of which they were a member together with a one-to-one meeting between the chairman and each director.
The board considered the merit of using an external body to undertake the performance evaluation process.
It concluded that the current approach was most appropriate in the circumstances of the current year but that serious consideration would be given to an external process in the next financial year.
The company secretary collated the evaluation results and these were considered by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
These were positive and indicated that the board, its committees and individual directors were all operating effectively.
The chairman s performance was reviewed and his leadership and performance were considered to have been of a high standard.
No major areas were highlighted for consideration from the review but there were recommendations made for continuous improvement in the areas of supply of information and improved access to company management and employees.
Recommendations arising from the 2007 2008 evaluation process were implemented in the course of the year, principally in establishing the role of the chief operating officer assumed by Peter Couch.
31 Corporate Governance Report continued Re-election of directors The company s articles of association require the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
At the annual general meeting in 2010 both Robin Broadhurst the chairman and Robert Hiscox will be proposed for re-election.
In the light of the performance evaluations summarised above the board recommends that both directors be re-elected.
Internal Control The board is responsible for reviewing and approving the group s system of internal control and its adequacy and effectiveness.
The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing and managing its significant risks, which has been in place for the full year under review.
The process is designed to enable the board to be confident that such risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as possible.
It should be noted however that no system can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives entirely and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee is delegated the task of reviewing all identified risks, with the ultimate key risks retained for full board review.
The audit committee reports to the board at every board meeting.
Risks and controls are reviewed to ensure effective management of appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The audit committee also reviews the half year and full year financial statements and holds discussions with the group s auditors.
In addition, the group has an internal audit function which performs relevant reviews as part of a programme approved by the audit committee.
The committee considers any issues or risks arising from internal audit in order that appropriate actions can be undertaken for their satisfactory resolution.
The internal audit manager has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the audit committee.
An annual budget is produced, together with longer term projections in accordance with the agreed strategy, which are presented to the board for approval.
A fundamental part of the control process is the diligent monitoring of actual performance against this budget by the board.
Where applicable, revisions are made to expected outturn against which further progress can be monitored.
The board also discusses in detail the projected financial impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their financing.
All such proposed substantial investments are considered by all directors.
Where meetings are required between board meetings and a full complement of directors cannot be achieved, a committee of directors considers the necessary formalities.
The board is also responsible for the discussion and approval of the group s treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in interest rates.
The group s processes for internal control have been in place throughout the year and accord with the Turnbull guidelines 2005.
The board regularly reviews the group s processes for internal control and conducts a formal annual review of these processes and the risks relating to the business.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review in the year.
Audit Committee and Auditor Independence The audit committee consisted throughout the year of John Barnsley as chairman and Henry Pitman and Baroness Ford.
The audit committee met four times in the year, in each case with all members of the committee present.
John Barnsley has the particular recent, relevant financial experience required by the Combined Code.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available on the group s website www.
In addition to the work referred to in the section Internal Control above, the audit committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, and ensuring this is safeguarded notwithstanding any provision of any non-audit services to the group.
32 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that auditor independence is not compromised: The audit committee carries out each year a full evaluation of the external auditor as to its complete independence from the group and relevant officers of the group in all material respects and that it is adequately resourced and technically capable to deliver an objective audit to shareholders.
Based on this review the audit committee recommends to the board each year the continuation, or removal and replacement, of the external auditor.
The external auditors provide audit-related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities relating to shareholders and other circulars.
The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax and pension matters given its knowledge of the Group s businesses.
Such provision will however be assessed on a case by case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
The Audit Committee monitors the application of policy in this regard and keeps the policy under review.
The Audit Committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all consultancy fees, with a view to assessing reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and any independence issues that may have arisen or may potentially arise in the future.
The auditors report to the directors and the Audit Committee confirming their independence in accordance with Auditing Standards.
During the year, 106,000 was paid by the Group to  for taxation services during the year.
The Audit Committee give careful consideration before appointing the auditors to provide taxation advice and regularly use other providers to ensure that independence and full value for money are achieved.
A further 531,000 was paid for due diligence services in respect of the acquisition of FRM and other transactional work.
These fees were one-off in nature and are not expected to reoccur.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing and reporting to the board on the accounting policies and practices of the group and on the annual and half-yearly financial reporting process.
The audit committee reviewed the company s whistle-blowing policy and was satisfied that this meets FSA rules and good standards of corporate governance.
The finance director and external audit partner are invited to attend meetings of the committee.
Question and answer sessions were held by the committee with members of staff managing key business areas including treasury, IT and the retirement solutions business.
These sessions assist the committee to question risk in the business and to stay close to staff who have significant control responsibilities.
Once in each year the committee meets with management without the auditors present and also with the auditors without management present.
Relations with shareholders The company has held over 100 meetings with shareholders, analysts and potential investors in the year in addition to the usual half yearly results announcements and briefings.
Andrew Cunningham, as acting chief executive and finance director, has had the vast majority of these meetings and manages the Group s investor relations programme with the head of corporate affairs.
Feedback is always sought following such meetings and is presented to the board as a whole and the board is briefed on the views of major shareholders.
All the directors intend to be in attendance at the annual general meeting and available to answer questions.
The group s website includes a specific and comprehensive Investor Relations section, containing all RNS announcements, share price information, annual documents available for download and similar materials.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the annual general meeting, which continues as a route for communication with smaller and private shareholders.
The notice of meeting and annual report and accounts are sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate votes are held for each proposed resolution, including the approval of the remuneration committee report, and a proxy count is given in each case after the voting on a show of hands.
Grainger includes, as standard, a vote withheld category, in line with best practice.
Shareholders are also able again to lodge their votes through the CREST system.
33 Going concern After making diligent enquiries, including the review of future anticipated cash flows and compliance with banking covenants, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the board Nick On Company Secretary 5 November 2009 34
