APPH building long-term customer relationships Continuously improving technical capabilities and a focus on service quality and service support are key to long-term and loyal customers.
APPHs relationship with BAE Systems has grown signifi cantly over time, from the fi first fl ight of the Hawker Siddeley Hawk in 1974, for which APPH designed and qualifi ed the landing gear and fl ight control system, through to support contracts for existing military platforms and the design, manufacture and support of landing gear on new platforms such as the unmanned Taranis.
Over 700 Hawk advanced jet trainers have been sold to date and APPH provides the landing gear maintenance contract with BAE Systems.
The Hawk is used by the British Royal Air Force RAF and other air forces around the world as either a trainer or a low cost combat aircraft but by far its most famous application is as a Red Arrow.
The Red Arrows consists of 13 Hawks, 9 of which fl y in combination at displays and special events around the world.
The Blues, the Red Arrows engineering and technical support team can accommodate the majority of fi xes required to keep the display team in the air but APPH landing gear service engineers are always available to provide in-fi eld service if needed: anywhere the fl eet happens to be.
Despite being around for nearly four decades, new generation Hawks continue to be sold, with the RAF receiving its fi first Hawk T2 in 2009.
34 RAF Scampton, UK Bernie Dunbavin, APPH service engineer, on location with the Red Arrows 35 APPH Inc Inc 1 2009 2008 dec 2008 dec Revenue m m % m % USA 15.4 16.8 8 19.9 23 Europe & ROW 40.7 51.9 22 51.9 22 Total 56.1 68.7 18 71.8 22 1 At constant exchange rates In APPH, revenue declined by 18% to 56.1 million and on an organic basis reduced by 20%.
The reduction in activity was driven by a number of factors, which included a signifi cant reduction in demand for original equipment from B&GA OEMs, notably Cessna and Hawker Beechcraft.
There was also an adverse impact on aftermarket service requirements due to the lower fl ying activity and the continued downturn in the US regional turboprop market aff ected demand for landing gear maintenance, repair and overhaul MRO work.
In response to these diffi cult market conditions, APPH reduced headcount and moved a number of its locations to short working hours, overall reducing FTEs by 29% since 2008.
We also closed a small wheels and brakes facility at Basingstoke early in 2009 and consolidated our Houston operations from two locations onto one site.
APPH continued to win new business.
We received signifi cant orders for power packs and reservoirs for Hindustan Aeronautics and APPH supplied the fi first prototype landing gear system for qualifi cation testing for Eurocopter Frances new EC175 helicopter programme.
Following a review of our aftermarket strategy it was decided that APPH Houston Inc. should be realigned to become part of BBA Aviations Legacy Support business, with eff ect from 1 January 2010.
APPH Houstons principal focus is legacy platform support and the maintenance, repair and overhaul of associated products, which is a more natural fi t with our Legacy Support business.
RAF Scampton, UK a Red Arrows Hawk in action Directors Report 37
