33 Corporate governance report The Group is committed to applying the highest principles of and critical function of the Board in a small, people-orientated corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Groups shareholders for good Recognising that the independence of non-executive directors is an corporate governance.
This report and the Directors Remuneration issue for some shareholders, Giles Weaver offers himself for re-election Report describe how the Group complies with the provisions of the at each Annual General Meeting.
He has received an overwhelming Combined Code 2006 the Code.
majority in favour of re-election at all Annual General Meetings since his appointment as Chairman of Helical.
Compliance The senior independent director is Antony Beevor.
The remaining With the exception of Code provision A.
3.2 requiring at least half the non-executive directors are Wilf Weeks and Andrew Gulliford.
Board excluding the Chairman to be comprised of independent The breadth of experience provided by the non-executive directors non-executive directors, the Group has complied throughout the year allied to the management information provided by the Group enable with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code the non-executive Board members to assess and advise the full Board 2006.
Helical employed 24 people including 6 executive directors on the major risks faced by the Group.
In view of this we continue to during the year to 31 March 2009 and in considering Code provision believe that all the non-executive directors are independent and for A.
3.2 it was not considered appropriate to the needs of the business to the purposes of this report are referred to below as independent appoint a further three non-executive directors which would have taken directors.
the total to thirteen directors merely to meet Corporate Governance The Board of Directors guidelines.
The Group considered that the non-executive directors were The Group supports the concept of an effective Board leading and able to discharge their duties without additional support, but will keep controlling the Group.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership this under review in future periods.
of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups Application of the principles strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human The Board currently consists of five executive directors who hold the resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives and key operational positions in the Group and four non-executive directors, reviews management performance.
The Board sets the Groups who bring a breadth of experience and knowledge to their roles.
values and standards and ensures that the Groups obligations to Michael Brown resigned from the Board on 4 June 2009 to pursue its shareholders and others are understood and met.
In view of the breadth of experience and skills of the The members of the Board, and the roles of each director are given remaining executive team the Board does not intend replacing him in the biographical details of the directors on page 30. in the forseeable future.
All directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Group.
Chairman and Chief Executive As part of their role as members of the Board, non-executive directors The Chairman of the Board is Giles Weaver.
The Groups business is constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
run by Michael Slade, the Chief Executive.
Non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of management Board balance and independence in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of The Chairman, Giles Weaver, has been a non-executive director of performance.
They satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial Helical since 1993.
In the Groups view, the experience gained as a information and that financial controls and systems of risk management chairman or director of several listed companies in the financial sector are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining provides him with the necessary skills of leadership and guidance that appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have the role of Chairman of this Group requires.
These skills together with a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing executive his detachment from day-to-day issues within the Group, and his robustly directors, and in succession planning.
independent approach to the role of Chairman provide the Board In addition to ad hoc meetings arranged to discuss particular with the necessary comfort that despite his time as a non-executive transactions and events and the 2008 AGM, the full Board met on director he could properly be regarded as independent at the time of eight occasions during the year under review.
The attendance his appointment as Chairman.
The Chairman of the Group, Giles Weaver, record of the directors is shown in the table below.
is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee because the Group regards the setting of remuneration policy to be an integral Former Nigel Matthew Director Giles Michael McNair GeraldBonningJack Antony Wilf Andrew Michael Meetings Weaver Slade Scott Kaye Snook Pitman Beevor Weeks Gulliford Brown Full Board 8787888578 Audit Committee n a n a n a n a n a n a535 n a Remuneration Committee 5 n a n a n a n a n a525 n a Nominations and Appointments Committee 1 n a n a n a n a n a101 n a Michael Brown resigned from the Board on 4 June 2009.
Wilf Weeks was absent from a number of meetings due to ill health.
Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for Directors information and professional development 34 decision.
The Board controls the business but delegates day-to-day The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form responsibility to the executive management.
However, there are a and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties and number of matters which are required to be or, in the interests of its directors are free to seek any further information they consider the Group, should only be decided by the Board of Directors as a necessary.
A summary of the decisions reserved for the Board Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys is set out below: responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the Schedule of matters reserved for the Board: Board and its Committees and between senior management and Strategy and management responsibility for the overall non-executive directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting management of the Group: approval of the Groups long-term with professional development as required.
The Company Secretary objectives and commercial strategy: approval of annual administration is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all budgets: oversight of the Groups operations: extension of the governance matters.
Groups activities into new business areas: any decision to cease The Board ensures that directors, especially non-executive directors, to operate all or any material part of the Groups business.
have access to independent professional advice at the Groups Structure and capital changes to the Groups capital structure: expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities major changes to the Groups corporate structure: changes to the as directors.
Training is available for new directors and other directors Groups management and control structure: changes to the as necessary.
All directors have access to the advice and services of Groups listing or plc status.
the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
The Group has arranged Financial reporting and controls approval of interim and preliminary appropriate insurance cover in case of legal action against its directors.
announcements: approval of annual report and accounts, including the corporate governance statement and the directors remuneration Directors performance evaluation report: approval of dividend policy: approval of significant changes During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own in accounting policies or practices: approval of treasury policies.
performance and that of its Committees and individual directors in the period.
Internal controls ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
The Chairman is responsible for the annual evaluation process, and will act on its outcome.
This process involves each director submitting Communication approval of resolutions and documentation to an appraisal to the Chairman in respect of the performance of the be put to shareholders in general meeting: approval of press main Board, of each member of the Board and in respect of each releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
Board Committee of which they are a member.
Board membership and other appointments to senior management.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
director, are responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account views of executive directors.
Each director Corporate governance matters including directors performance completed an evaluation of the Chairmans performance and provided evaluations.
this evaluation to the senior independent non-executive director.
Approval of policies including code of conduct: share dealing The evaluation process identified a concern regarding the balance code: health and safety policy: environmental and corporate between the time spent considering the business and time spent on social responsibility policy and equal opportunity policy.
The Board concluded that Board meeting timetables should be reviewed to ensure that an appropriate amount Nominations and Appointments Committee of time is devoted to each area.
Otherwise, there were no significant The terms of reference of the Nominations and Appointments Committee matters arising out of the annual evaluation process which required are available by request and are included on the Groups website at action by the Board.
Directors re-election The membership of the Committee is as follows: All directors are subject to re-election, after receiving the recommendation of the Nominations and Appointments Committee, Giles Weaver Chairman every three years and, on appointment, at the first AGM after Antony Beevor appointment.
The Nominations and Appointments Committee have Wilf Weeks recommended the re-appointment of the following directors at the Andrew Gulliford 2009 AGM: Directors appointments to the Board Giles Weaver has served more than nine years on the Board and Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
Care in accordance with the Code offers himself for re-election: is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time available to devote to the job.
Antony Beevor is due to retire by rotation and offers himself for re-election: The Nominations and Appointments Committee controls the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
Andrew Gulliford is due to retire by rotation and offers himself for All the members of the Committee are independent non-executive re-election: Directors.
Michael Slade is due to retire by rotation and offers himself The work of the Nominations and Appointments Committee in for re-election: and, the year Nigel McNair Scott is due to retire by rotation and offers himself The Committee met once during the period.
A record of attendance at for re-election.
this meeting is shown on page 33.
During this meeting the Committee resolved that Giles Weaver, Wilf Weeks, Matthew Bonning-Snook Biographical details of the directors are given on page 30. and Jack Pitman be recommended to shareholders for re-appointment as directors at the 2008 AGM.
Corporate governance report Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Relations with shareholders The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering 35 The Group values the views of its shareholders and recognises their how it applies the financial reporting and internal control principles and for interest in the Groups strategy and performance, Board membership maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups auditors.
It therefore holds regular meetings with, Whilst all directors have a duty to act in the interests of the Group, the and presentations to, its institutional shareholders to discuss its Audit Committee has a particular role, acting independently from the objectives.
The Group also regularly meets, with the help of its executive, to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly brokers, institutions that do not currently hold shares in the Group to protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
inform them of its objectives.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Appointments to the Audit Committee are made by the Board Director are available to shareholders, should they wish to discuss on the recommendation of the Nominations and Appointments matters relating to the Group.
There were no meetings during the year Committee in consultation with the Audit Committee Chairman.
between shareholders and non-executive directors.
The work of the Audit Committee in the year The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they are The Audit Committee met five times during the year.
A record of encouraged to participate.
The members of the Audit, Remuneration attendance at these meetings is shown on page 33.
The Audit and Nominations and Appointments Committees are available to Committee met the external auditors three times to discuss answer questions.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each issue matters arising from the annual and interim audits.
so that they can be given proper consideration and there is a resolution to consider the annual report and accounts.
The Group counts all In addition to matters discussed in relation to the annual and proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each interim audits, the Committee met with the auditors once to discuss resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
the Groups system of internal control following receipt of the auditors review of the design effectiveness of internal controls in The Group communicates with all shareholders through the issue of February 2009.
The key findings and recommendations of this regular press releases and through its website at www.
report, which cover governance, operational controls and financial The Group receives regular reports from sector analysts and its reporting were considered and are being implemented.
investor relations advisors on how it is viewed by its shareholders.
Internal control Accountability and audit The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups Financial reporting assets.
Such a system is designed to manage, but cannot eliminate, The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There are inherent the Groups position and prospects.
It seeks to do so in all published limitations in any control system and, accordingly, even the most information and in particular in interim and preliminary announcements effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, and other price-sensitive reports and reports to regulators as well as assurance against material misstatement or loss.
in the information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control are as follows: Going concern The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial clearly defined organisational responsibilities and limits of authority.
position of the Group making reasonable assumptions about future The day-to-day involvement of the executive directors in the running trading performance.
of the business ensures that these responsibilities and limits are adhered to: The key areas of sensitivity are: financial controls and review procedures: timing and value of property sales financial information systems including cash flow, profit and availability of loan finance and related cash flows capital expenditure forecasts.
The Board receives regular and future property valuation and its impact on covenants and comprehensive reports on the day-to-day running of the business: potential loan repayments an Audit Committee which meets with the auditors and deals with committed future expenditure any significant internal control matter.
In the year under review future rental income and potential bad debts the Committee met with the Auditors on four occasions.
repayment timing and value of trade receivables Internal audit The forecast cashflows have been sensitised to eliminate those The Board reviewed its position during the year to 31 March 2009 cash inflows which are less certain and to take account of a further and reaffirmed its stance that in view of the relatively small size of the deterioration of property valuations.
From their review the directors Group it does not consider that an Internal Audit function would believe that the Group have adequate resources to continue to be provide any significant additional assistance in maintaining a system operational as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Audit Committee and auditors Audit independence The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available by A policy of reviewing audit independence has been adopted whereby request and are included on the Groups website at non-audit services undertaken by the auditors is approved prior to www.
During the year under review non-audit services The membership of the Committee is as follows: comprised a review of the financial accounts and a review of internal Antony Beevor Chairman controls.
The audit committee considers the external auditors to be Wilf Weeks independent and has satisfied itself of the effectiveness of the Andrew Gulliford external auditors, making use of information available from the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financing Reporting Council.
The Committee endorses the principles set out in the Smith Guidance for Audit Committees.
The Groups policy on awarding non-audit work to its auditors is designed to ensure that the Group receives the most appropriate advice without compromising the independence of the auditors.
Whilst no fee caps or limits have been set by the Committee, the level of fees would be a factor in considering whether the auditors independence could be affected by the award of non-audit work.
Corporate governance report Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009
