Savills plc 30 Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report The Board is responsible to shareholders Following the establishment of the Group The Board has adopted a formal schedule for the management and control of the Executive Board in February 2008, which of matters specifically reserved to it for Companys activities and is committed assumed responsibility for overseeing decision which is under continuous review.
to the highest standards of Corporate the development and implementation of These matters reserved for the Board Governance.
The principal governance strategy and the operational performance include: rules applying to UK companies listed on of the Group, the Board reconsidered its approval of Group strategy: the London Stock Exchange are contained own structure during 2009 in the light of in the Combined Code on Corporate the role and performance of the Group approval of the annual operating and Governance adopted by the Financial Executive Board.
Following this review, capital expenditure budgets and any Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code.
the Company announced the restructuring material changes: This report explains how the Company has of its Board effective 18 January 2010 to review of performance, assessed against complied with the provisions of the Code streamline management of the Group and the Groups strategy, objectives, and explains where the Company has provide an improved focus on decision business plans and budgets: departed from them.
As a result of this restructuring, that, throughout the period under review, Rupert Sebag-Montefiore, Simon Hope approval of interim and preliminary with the exception of one area detailed and Robert McKellar stood down from the announcements and the Annual Report below see Board composition and Board with effect from 18 January 2010, and Accounts: balance, the Company has complied with although all three continue to be members approval of the dividend policy: the provisions recommended in Section 1 of the Group Executive Board with of the Code which applies to the financial unchanged responsibilities.
Following approval of any significant changes in period that is the subject of this Annual this restructuring the Company is in full accounting policies or practices: Report and Accounts.
It was also extension of the Groups activities and announced that at the conclusion of the Board composition and balance into new geographic areas: forthcoming AGM, Fields Wicker-Miurin, During the year the Board comprised a who was appointed to the Board in 2002, approval of any significant acquisitions Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent would retire from the Board as a Nonor investments: Non-Executive Directors and six Executive Executive Director and that Martin Angle any decision to divest or close any Group Directors.
would replace her as Chairman of the business: Audit Committee.
The posts of Chairman and Group Chief delegation of the appropriate authorities, Executive are separated.
The Chairman is Since 1 November 2004, Timothy Ingram in particular to the Group Executive responsible for the workings and leadership has been the Senior Independent Director.
Board, and agreeing terms of reference of the Board and for the balance of its He is available to shareholders if they have for its various committees: and membership.
The Group Chief Executive is concerns which have not been addressed responsible for leading and managing the by contact with the Chairman or Group the appointment of new Directors.
business within the authorities delegated by Chief Executive.
The biographies of the current Board Martin Angle, Timothy Ingram, Charles members appear on pages 26 and 27.
McVeigh and Fields Wicker-Miurin are Functioning of the Board Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that the NonThe Directors receive management Executive Directors are independent of information, including financial, operating management and have no business or and strategic reports, in advance of Board other relationship which could interfere meetings.
From time to time the Board materially with the exercise of their receives presentations from non-Board judgement.
members on matters of significance.
The Non-Executive Directors periodically On 13 February 2009, Mark Dearsley visit different Group companies to gain resigned as Group Finance Director and greater insight into the business.
The Group on 16 March 2009 Simon Shaw joined the Company Secretary provides the Board Board as Group Chief Financial Officer.
with ongoing reports that cover legal and During 2009, and as in previous years, the regulatory changes and developments.
Board was not compliant with the provision of the Code which requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Our governance Savills plc Report and Accounts 2009 31 Board meetings During the year the Board held eight scheduled meetings and a separate strategic review to confirm Group strategy.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings convened in the year ended 31 December 2009 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Nomination Committee Number of meetings in year 8 5 5 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Non-Executive Directors Peter Smith 8 3 2 Martin Angle 8 4 5 2 Timothy Ingram 8 5 5 2 Charles McVeigh 8 5 4 2 Fields Wicker-Miurin 8 5 5 2 Executive Directors Jeremy Helsby 8 2 Simon Shaw appointed 16 March 2009 6 Simon Hope resigned 18 January 2010 8 Robert McKellar resigned 18 January 2010 8 Rupert Sebag-Montefiore resigned 18 January 2010 8 Mark Dearsley resigned 13 February 2009 1 Members of the GEB Peter Smith became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 April 2009 All Directors receive detailed papers in advance of Board meetings.
When unable to be present in person, Directors may attend by audio or video-conference.
When Directors are not able to attend Board or Committee meetings, their comments on the papers to be considered at that meeting are relayed in advance to the Chairman of that meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least twice each year without the presence of the Executive Directors and also meet without the Chairman, at which time the Chairmans performance is appraised.
There is an approved procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice in the performance of their duties at the Groups expense.
During 2009, no Director obtained any such independent advice.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board on governance matters.
In addition, all the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
Savills plc 32 Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued Board committees Audit Committee monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function The Board has delegated certain authorities The Committee consists of the four and reviewing all reports prepared to committees each with formal terms Independent Non-Executive Directors.
by the internal auditors and assessing of reference, which are available on The Committee is chaired by Fields Wickermanagements responsiveness to such request or on the Companys website Miurin and met five times during the year.
The membership of The meetings are also attended by the each committee is detailed on page 26.
Non-Executive Chairman, Group Chief reviewing and assessing the The principal committees of the Board are Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, effectiveness of the Groups internal as follows: Group Financial Controller, the internal control and risk management systems auditors, the external auditors, Group Risk see pages 24 and 25.
Nomination Committee Director, Group Company Secretary and The Committee consists of the four Over the last 12 months the Committee other senior executives of the Group Independent Non-Executive Directors, has considered in particular the impairment by invitation.
The Board considers that the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
of assets including subsidiaries in the light the members of the Audit Committee The Committee is chaired by the Group of the recessionary environment, the collectively have sufficient recent and Chairman, Peter Smith.
The Committee Treating Customers Fairly policies of our relevant financial experience to carry out meets at least once a year and met twice mortgage broking subsidiary and the the functions of the Committee.
during 2009. arrangements for the quality assurance of The Committee is authorised to investigate professional work.
The Committee provides a forum to any matter within its terms of reference and, consider Board succession planning, The Committee also considers on an where necessary, to obtain external legal whether to recommend the re-election of a ongoing basis the independence of the or other independent professional advice.
Director and to make recommendations to external auditors and has established The Committees activities during the year the Board on certain matters including its policies to consider the appropriateness or have included: composition, structure, size and balance.
otherwise of appointing the external reviewing the half-year and annual auditors to perform non-audit services.
The Companys Articles of Association financial statements with particular As detailed on page 29 the external provide that Directors must submit reference to accounting policies, together auditors are  LLP.
themselves for re-election every three years with significant estimates and financial The external auditors are responsible for the and that newly appointed Directors must reporting judgements and the annual audit and have also provided certain submit themselves for re-election at the first disclosures made therein: non-audit services to the Company, AGM after their appointment.
In making principally advice on taxation matters.
monitoring the financial reporting recommendations to shareholders for The Audit Committee considers that the process: the re-appointment of any Director, the relationship with the auditors is working Nomination Committee considers that reviewing management representations well and remains satisfied with their Directors performance and ongoing made to the external auditors: effectiveness.
The Audit Committee is contribution to the success of the satisfied that such work was best reviewing the Groups procedures to Company and makes its relevant undertaken by  ensure that all relevant information is recommendation to the Board.
LLP and the objectivity of the external disclosed: During the year the Committee completed auditors has not been impaired by reason discussing any issues arising out of the the process to identify a successor to of this further work.
Accordingly, it has not half year review or the full year audit with Mark Dearsley as Group Finance Director considered it necessary to date to require the external auditors in the absence of following his decision to resign from the the firm to tender for the audit work.
management where appropriate : Board with effect from 13 February 2009.
The audit was last tendered in 2000.
Specialist external search consultants The external auditors are required to making recommendations to the were retained to carry out the search for a rotate the audit partners responsible for Board with regard to continuing the suitable candidate.
Following this search, the Group audit every 5 years.
There are appointment and remuneration of the Simon Shaw joined the Board as Group no contractual obligations restricting the external auditor: overseeing the Groups Chief Financial Officer on 16 March 2009.
Companys choice of external auditor.
relations with the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls: Our governance Savills plc 33 Report and Accounts 2009 The provision of internal audit services was The Committee does not deal with the fees Directors conflicts of interest reviewed during the year.
Following this paid to the Non-Executive Directors, which From 1 October 2008, Directors have had review, internal audit is now jointly delivered are decided by the Executive Directors and a statutory duty to avoid situations in which by the Groups newly established internal the Chairman except when his own fee is they have, or could have, an interest that audit team and KPMG KPMG having being discussed.
conflicts or possibly may conflict with the previously provided internal audit services interests of the Company.
A Director will The report of the Remuneration on an outsourced basis.
not be in breach of that duty if the relevant Committee is set out on pages 36 to 45. matter has been authorised in accordance Globally, all of our businesses have The Remuneration report will be put to with the Articles of Association by the established whistleblowing procedures to shareholders at the AGM in 2010. other Directors.
The Articles of Association enable employees to raise concerns about Group Executive Board GEB were amended to include the relevant possible improprieties in financial reporting The GEB comprises the Group Chief authorisation for Directors to approve such and other matters on a confidential basis.
Executive, the Group Chief Financial conflicts by a resolution of shareholders at Remuneration Committee Officer, the managing directors of the main the AGM held on 7 May 2008.
The Board The Committee consists of the four operating subsidiaries and the Group has adopted a set of guiding principles on Independent Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary.
Under the leadership managing conflicts and approved a and the Chairman.
It is chaired by Charles of the Group Chief Executive, the GEB is process for identifying current and future McVeigh and meets at least three times a responsible for overseeing the development actual and potential conflicts of interest.
With effect from and implementation of strategy, the It was also agreed that the Nominations 1 April 2009 the Committee took operational performance of the Group and Committee would review authorised advantage of the amendment to the other specific matters delegated to it by the conflicts annually or if and when a new Combined Code and the Chairman Board.
potential conflict situation was identified or became a member of the Remuneration a potential conflict situation materialised.
Board performance and evaluation Committee.
The Group Company During 2009, actual and potential conflicts In accordance with established practice, Secretary is secretary to the Committee of interest that were identified by each a formal self evaluation of its own and also provides advice to it.
Director were subsequently authorised performance was undertaken during by the Board, subject to appropriate The Committees principal responsibilities the year to identify areas where Board conditions in accordance with the are to determine Company policy on senior performance and procedures might be guiding principles.
executive remuneration and to agree the further improved.
The same process was remuneration packages of the Executive used to evaluate the performance of the Directors.
The Committee excluding the Board Committees.
Based on an approach Chairman also determines the level of fees established in previous years by an payable to the Chairman.
independent consultant, the review this year was led by the Group Company Given the central part that remuneration Secretary.
The findings were reported at a plays in the success of the Group, in terms meeting on 15 December 2009.
The Board of recruitment, motivation and retention of will continue to keep its performance high quality employees the Group Chief under review and currently anticipates that Executive is consulted on the remuneration another review will be carried out in 2010. packages of the other Executive Directors and attends Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee takes the advice of external consultants from time to time and did so during the year from Towers Watson.
Towers Watson provides no other services to the Group.
Savills plc 34 Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued Relations with shareholders Internal control and risk management a Group Risk Committee which reports to the GEB and is tasked with the review, The Group recognises the importance of The Board has overall responsibility for discussion and challenge of key risks maintaining regular dialogue with its establishing and maintaining the Groups reported, the ongoing Group-wide shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive system of risk management and internal development of internal control and and Group Chief Financial Officer have a control to safeguard shareholders the monitoring of internal audits and regular programme of meetings and investments and the Groups assets, other sources of assurance on the presentations with analysts and investors, and for reviewing the effectiveness of this effectiveness of internal controls.
including presentations at the time of the system.
However, such a system is The Committee consists of the Group Companys preliminary announcement designed to manage rather than eliminate Chief Financial Officer, senior subsidiary of annual and half year results.
the risk of failure to achieve business business management and Group This programme facilitates an ongoing objectives and can provide only reasonable function heads including the Group Risk two-way dialogue between the Company and not absolute assurance against Director, Group Company Secretary and and shareholders, and helps to ensure that material misstatement or loss.
Group IT Director: the Board is aware of shareholders views Key elements of the Groups system of risk on a timely basis.
The Board also reviews procedures available to employees management and internal control are: a report at least twice each year from its who are concerned about possible corporate broker on feedback from a comprehensive system for planning impropriety, financial or otherwise, and investors and the markets view of and reporting the performance of each who may wish to ensure that action the Company.
The GEB and is taken without fear of victimisation Board meet regularly and review the or reprisal: The AGM provides the Board with a Groups results against plan and the valuable opportunity to communicate a programme of assurance activities previous year.
The Group regularly with private shareholders and is generally which assess the effectiveness of our reviews performance forecasts.
Clear attended by all the Directors.
Shareholders internal controls in respect of our key responsibilities are given to operational are given the opportunity to ask questions risks which includes: and financial managers for the during the meeting and to meet Directors maintenance of effective financial controls a programme of internal audits following the conclusion of the formal part and the production of accurate and undertaken in accordance with an of the meeting.
In accordance with the timely financial management information: annual risk based plan approved by Code the level and manner of voting of the Audit Committee.
The plan is proxies lodged on each resolution at the the regular review and assessment of the designed to ensure that internal audit AGM is declared at the meeting and performance of the business including in reviews are focused on priority controls published on the Company website.
relation to risk management and internal across the Group to provide both The Directors aim to give as much notice control by the Board and its sub independent review and challenge on of the AGM as possible which will be at committees, including the GEB: the effectiveness of these controls, and least 21 clear days, as required by attendance at operating subsidiary and the promotion of good practice and the Companys Articles of Association.
associate boards by Executive Directors.
consistency in their development: In accordance with the Articles of These boards and their associated Association, electronic and paper proxy compliance programmes within our committees also meet regularly and have appointments and voting instructions must regulated businesses in support formal reporting structures.
Directors of be received not later than 48 hours before of the Groups commitment to operating subsidiaries are also closely a general meeting.
conduct its business responsibly involved in the day-to-day business of and in accordance with all laws The Company has taken advantage of their respective operations, and are and regulations to which its business the provisions within the Companies Act tasked with identifying key risks and activities are subject: and 2006 which allow communications with ensuring that appropriate action is taken shareholders to be made electronically to manage these: an annual self assessment and where shareholders have not requested certification by management of the a Group Risk Management Policy which hard copy documentation.
Details of the existence and effectiveness of the sets out the process for identifying, information available for shareholders can controls within each of our operating evaluating, assessing and managing the be found on page 99.
The results are collated key risks to the Groups business Company is also available on the website at for review and challenge by the Group objectives, supported by an appropriate www.
com Risk Committee and onward reporting organisational structure and clearly to the GEB and Audit Committee.
defined management responsibilities: Our governance Savills plc Report and Accounts 2009 35 The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Going concern Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of The Groups business activities, together the system of risk management and internal with the factors likely to affect its future control.
In performing its review of development, performance and position effectiveness, the Audit Committee are set out in the business review on pages considered the following reports and 07 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, activities: its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the internal audit reports on the review of Financial review on pages 16 and 17. priority controls across the Group and In addition, Note 3 to the financial the monitoring of management actions statements includes the Groups objectives, arising: policies and processes for managing its managements own assessment of capital: its financial risk management the performance of the system of risk objectives: details of its financial instruments management and internal control and hedging activities: and its exposures to during 2009: credit risk and liquidity risk.
invitation of key financial and operational The Group has considerable financial managers to present on the operation resources, including a bank facility that of the system of risk management and matures in October 2011, together with internal control within their businesses: a broad spread of businesses across different geographic areas and sectors reports from the Group Risk Committee some of which enjoy stable revenue under including reporting on Group-wide key contract with a number of customers.
risk assessment activity and annual self As a consequence, the Directors believe assessment findings: and that the Group is well placed to manage reports from the external auditors on any its business risks successfully despite the issues identified during the course of current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of reasonable expectation that the Company the system of internal control, can confirm and the Group have adequate resources that necessary actions have been, or are to continue in operational existence for being, taken to remedy any significant the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they failings or weaknesses identified from continue to adopt the going concern basis that review.
in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
By order of the Board Peter Smith Chairman 17 March 2010
