co. uk coRPoRate goveRnance RePoRt The board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate management team and by meetings with key partners.
Where governance within the company.
Throughout the year ended 30th appropriate, the company provides the resources to enable November 2009, the company has complied with Section 1 of the directors to update and upgrade their knowledge.
Through the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2008 the Company Secretary, the board is informed of corporate governance Code except in relation to the following matters: issues and all board members have access via the Company Secretary to independent advice if required.
The Code asks the board to identify each non-executive director it considers to be independent.
Of the seven non-executive Ian Menzies-Gow is the Senior Independent Director.
He is available directors at the end of 2009, the board considers Ian Menziesfor consultation by shareholders, whenever appropriate.
Gow, Lesley James, Katherine Innes Ker, Paul Rigg, and John The companys Articles of Association provide that all directors Salmon to be fully independent.
The board recognises that Simon are subject to re-election at least every three years.
In addition, Clarke does not meet the criteria for a fully independent director all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders after their under the Code, although his position as a representative of the initial appointment.
Clarke and Leavesley families who together hold 53.1m shares 26.52% of the companys issued share capital, gives him a very The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
It strong interest in challenging and scrutinising management to is intended that appointments will be for an initial term of three secure excellent performance from the company.
years, which may be extended by mutual agreement.
Prior to each non-executive director offering himself to the members for re The Code recommends that all members of the Audit and election his reappointment must be confirmed by the Chairman in Remuneration Committees are independent non-executive consultation with the remainder of the board.
Each of these Committees comprises all of the nonThe criteria used for evaluating individual executive directors executive members of the board, apart from the Chairman.
As performance are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
explained above, Simon Clarke is not a fully independent director Individual non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the under the Code, but the board considers that its discussions benefit Chairman and Chief Executive.
The performance of the board as from his involvement in the detailed scrutiny which takes place in a whole is assessed in the context of the companys achievement these Committees.
As also noted above, Simon Clarke has a strong of its strategic objectives and total shareholder return targets.
interest in challenging and monitoring managements performance.
Feedback on the company is sought through external surveys The Code recommends that a Chief Executive should not go on to from shareholders, analysts and other professionals within the be the Chairman of the same company.
As explained in previous investment community following regular briefings, presentations years annual reports, the board recommended the appointment and site visits undertaken by the company.
This feedback is made of former Chief Executive, Anthony Glossop, as Chairman of the available to the whole board.
board in 2004 which was endorsed by shareholders at the Annual In support of the principles of good corporate governance, the General Meeting that same year.
As of 11 February 2008 Anthony board has appointed the following committees, all of which have Glossop became non-executive Chairman.
The roles of the formal terms of reference which are available for inspection by Chairman and Chief Executive are carefully differentiated.
shareholders and are posted on the companys website: BoaRd of diRectoRs and committees The board operates within the terms of its written authorities, which audit committee include a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the board.
The Audit Committee currently comprises all of the non-executive The board currently consists of the non-executive Chairman, three directors, apart from the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by executive directors and six non-executive directors.
The composition John Salmon who, as a former partner of  of the board provides an appropriate blend of experience and LLP, is considered by the board to have the required recent and qualifications, and the number of non-executives provides a strong relevant experience.
base for ensuring appropriate corporate governance of the company.
The companys Finance Director, Financial Controller and Internal The boards decisions are implemented by the executive directors.
Auditor attend Audit Committee meetings but the Committee also meets without management being present and has private The board meets not less than ten times during the year and the sessions with the auditors.
The Committee has direct access to the Chairman and the non-executive directors also meet without internal and external auditors.
the executive directors being present.
The programme of board meetings is tailored to enable some meetings to be held at the The Audit Committees functions include: companys properties.
In advance of each meeting, each director Ensuring that appropriate accounting systems and financial receives a board pack containing comprehensive briefing papers.
controls are in operation and that the companys financial Presentations on business and operational issues are made statements comply with statutory and other requirements.
regularly to the board by senior management.
Receiving reports from, and consulting with, the internal and The board is supplied with timely and relevant information external auditors.
regarding the business, through regular monthly and ad hoc reports, site visits and presentations from members of the 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
indd 51 02 03 2010 11:45 52 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 coRPoRate goveRnance RePoRt continued Reviewing the interim and annual results and reports to for the external auditors to provide tax compliance and tax planning shareholders, and considering any matters raised by the internal services to the group, other services should only be provided where and external auditors.
alternative providers do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the groups interest for the external auditors to provide such services.
In Considering the appropriateness of the accounting policies of the all cases the provision of non-audit services is carefully monitored company used in preparing its financial statements.
by, and subject to the prior approval of, the Committee.
The external Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the group auditors would not be invited to provide any non-audit services and formal announcements relating to the groups financial where it was felt that this could conflict with their independence performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting or objectivity.
Such services would include the provision of internal judgements contained therein.
audit and management consulting services.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function.
nomination committee The Nomination Committee comprises Anthony Glossop as Reviewing and monitoring the independence and objectivity of chairman of the Committee, Ian Menzies-Gow, Paul Rigg and John the companys external auditors.
Mary Francis resigned on 30 September 2009 and Lesley Monitoring the scope, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the audit.
James and Katherine Innes Ker joined on 19 October 2009.
Monitoring the companys policy on non-audit services provided The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, by the external auditors.
knowledge and experience on the board and the structure, size and Making an annual assessment of the external auditors and composition of the board and its committees: annually reviewing recommending, or not, their re-appointment.
the performance of non-executive directors and board committees: recommending and reviewing new appointments to the board Reviewing  within the company.
as they become due: and reviewing and approving board and Reviewing its own performance, constitution and terms of committee succession.
reference to ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and During the year external consultants Zygos Partnerships were recommending any changes it considers necessary to the board engaged to assist in a search for two new non-executive directors.
Following a rigorous assessment process, the Committee During the year, the Committee was assisted in the performance recommended the appointments of Lesley James and Katherine of these duties by the companys Internal Auditor, tasked with Innes Ker to the board and they were duly appointed.
The Committee formalising and documenting internal control procedures and also endorsed the appointment during the year of Reeta Stokes as ensuring compliance.
The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Remuneration committee external auditors is that, whilst it is appropriate and cost effective The composition and functions of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 58.
BoaRd and committee attendance The attendance at board or Committee meetings during the year to 30 November 2009, was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee C. C. A. Glossop 10 1 4 2 S. J. Burke 11 T. P. Haywood 11 3 W. A. Oliver 11 1 S. W. Clarke 11 3 4 M. Francis resigned 30th September 2009 7 2 3 L. James joined 19th October 2009 2 1 K. Innes Ker joined 19th October 2009 2 1 R. I. Menzies-Gow 11 3 4 2 D. P. Rigg 11 3 4 2 C. E. Roshier resigned 3rd April 2009 4 1 1 J. H. Salmon 11 3 4 2 No.
of meetings during the year 11 3 4 2 In attendance, but not a member of the committee 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
co. uk There are clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital BoaRd effectiveness expenditure, purchases and sales of development and investment The Code recommends that the board undertake a formal and properties, contracts and commitments and a formal schedule of rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance.
A formal matters, including major investment and development decisions evaluation, facilitated by an external assessor, Dr Tracy Long and strategic matters, that are reserved for board approval.
Formal of Boardroom Review, was undertaken during 2008 2009.
The policies and procedures are in place covering all elements of principal findings of the review were that since the first review employment, the construction process, health and safety and IT.
in 2005 many of the issues raised had improved significantly, and that there was a shared sense of strategic mission and vision Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not an improved process of risk management, good communication absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The with shareholders and stakeholders, and a highly committed and directors continue, however, to strive to ensure that internal knowledgeable executive team.
The principal areas identified as control and risk management are further embedded into the requiring further work were: operations of the business by dealing with areas for improvement as they are identified.
In the year under review, no material loss 1.
Clarity of board agendas and papers was suffered by a failure of internal control.
Discussion of the corporate domain 3.
Succession planning The analysis of the businesss key risks was reviewed and redefined 4.
The role of the Chairman in the light of current experience.
During 2008 progress was made against these recommendations The companys policies with respect to its: in a number of areas, including the initiation of a management a financial risk management objectives and policies, including the development programme to identify and develop talent: a growing policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction: and focus on the macro-economic forces influencing the companys b exposure to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk markets: and a redefinition of the role and time commitment are contained in note 16 to the group accounts.
In 2009 attention was turned to succession planning and a number of personnel changes were Risks and unceRtainties made to the composition of the board, including the appointment of The key business risks facing the company, their potential impact two new non-executive directors and a Company Secretary, and the and mitigation, are reviewed regularly.
This year the risks were initiation of a process to find successors for the roles of Chairman assessed against a set of scenarios, and were found to be still and Senior Independent Director.
Risk management and inteRnal contRol The key risks that have been identified, the management approach The board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the to each, and the assessment of the residual risk, are set out below: identification and mitigation of risks and the development and maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control.
1. economic Property Risks During the period under review the directors have reviewed the The risks identified included: effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance Lack of liquidity for potential property investors with the Turnbull guidance, through the production of a detailed report which covered: the groups control environment: the Lack of demand for land from housebuilders manner in which key business risks are identified: the adequacy Lack of demand for space from occupiers of information systems and control procedures: and the manner in which any required corrective action is to be taken.
Investment yield movements The groups key internal controls are centred on comprehensive Overexposure to single tenant scheme sector monthly reporting from all activities which includes a detailed Changing public sector requirements portfolio analysis, development progress reviews, management accounts and a comparison of committed expenditure against available facilities.
These matters are reported to the board monthly, with reasons for any significant variances from budget.
Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the board and revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis.
indd 53 02 03 2010 11:45 54 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 coRPoRate goveRnance RePoRt continued The principal mitigating actions are: Assessment The equity issue and the renegotiation of banking covenants during the year have significantly reduced the risk of Use of realistic, but conservative, property valuations the company not being able to manage within those covenants.
The Hopper and geographical spread gives flexibility and In addition, the focus on reducing forward commitments and facilitates diversification speculative development and progressing selective asset disposals has enabled us to optimize operational cash flows, and to offset Emphasis on value creation through active property the impact of very difficult market conditions.
All of our banking management and development facilities are now secured until at least November 2011, and we Assessment We have chosen to operate only in the UK, which have 200m of available but undrawn facilities to finance future is normally subject to relatively low-risk low-returns from a stable developments or acquisitions.
Furthermore, we have once again and mature, albeit cyclical, economy and property market.
By recorded a trading profit in the year, with recurring income involvement with many sectors of that economy and that property exceeding the overhead and interest costs of the business, which market, we are well diversified, without venturing overseas.
demonstrates our ability to succeed despite the lack of any material development activity.
The current economic climate, and the resultant illiquidity of UK financial and property markets, has increased risk levels in this area 3. organisational People factors significantly.
Property valuations have consequently been subject The risks identified included: to higher degrees of volatility and uncertainty than in previous Failure to retain or train skilled personnel years.
Increasing pressures on occupiers and therefore on rental levels are likely to continue to restrain any recovery of values in Succession planning and talent management the short-term.
However, strong, well-run companies will survive IT this downturn, and will benefit from enhanced opportunities and reduced competition when conditions improve.
In the meantime, we Disaster planning will address this higher risk profile by maintaining our conservative Need to manage cost base to meet lower activity levels stance to funding, development and acquisitions.
The principal mitigating actions are: 2. financial Risks The risks identified included: Competitive remuneration packages Lack of available funds Regular assessment of performance and identification of training needs Inability to balance cash flows to meet changing market conditions Ongoing management of headcount Interest rates Regular communication of strategic and tactical objectives Inability to manage business within existing banking covenants Properly resourced and structured IT solutions The principal mitigating actions are: Appropriate disaster recovery procedures Detailed cash flow forecasting Assessment Employee turnover has historically been low, Recurring rent roll enabling interest costs to be met when indicating good retention levels.
Vacancies have been few and development activity declines are generally filled promptly, indicating the attractiveness of the company and remuneration packages.
To support the long-term Acquisition transactions structured in self-financing manner financial objectives, we will need to continue to improve the skills Small number of high-quality banking relationships of our employees.
In the short-term, we have continued to control our cost levels by closing the defined benefit pension scheme Hedging policy to contain interest rate risk to future accrual and by introducing a temporary suspension of pension contributions: these measures enabled us to maintain intact our core team, and the changes were met with equanimity by staff who recognised the steps taken by the company to protect their continuing employment.
Regulatory factors 6. social, ethical and environmental risks The risks identified included: The risks identified included: Planning Health, safety & environment risk Tax Business ethics internal controls Lease structures Customer satisfaction The principal mitigating actions are: The principal mitigating actions are: Being alert to policies being promoted Systems of control procedures and delegated authorities Use of high quality professional advisers Regular and detailed operational and financial reporting In-house expert resources in planning residential Regular dialogue with industry investors and commentators construction tax IT Close supervision of transactions and key relationships Assessment Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning Proactive press media contacts process, and internal procedures for spreading best practice ensure we remain abreast of most developments.
We have become Assessment The initial assessment of environmental costs and more active in attempting to influence public policy debate, the subsequent optimising of remediation solutions is an integral although meaningful and beneficial changes are very difficult to part of our acquisition and post-acquisition procedures.
We seek to bring about, notwithstanding the formalities of extensive public minimise or pass on any such environmental risks, and believe that consultation.
the residual risk in this respect is acceptably low.
In other social and ethical areas, the company has benefited from an excellent 5. failure to secure schemes reputation, which is underpinned by a simple set of operating The risks identified included: commitments.
Lack of availability of finance 7.
Reputational Risks Competition The risks identified included: Reputation Failure to deliver on promises Involvement with controversial schemes partners The principal mitigating actions are: Failure to live up to expectations Regional offices in touch with their local market Dedicated central resource to support regional teams The principal mitigating actions are: Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions in response to Adherence to system of principles and ethics changing market conditions Thorough and proactive PR to get messages across clearly Raising the profile of the company as the countrys leading regeneration specialist Inclusion of reputational issues as an item in scheme selection process Assessment The excellent reputation and restored financial A strong culture of propriety led from the board capacity of the company have enabled us to win a number of schemes and to grow the Hopper to record levels, even in the Regular top-level meetings with local authorities, RDAs, and current  climate.
We anticipate that the other government or quasi governmental bodies number of opportunities will increase as vendor expectations Assessment The company enjoys an excellent reputation with become more realistic and lenders begin to address the issues its stakeholders including investors, business partners and in their loan books.
In this environment, with a reduced number employees.
This is based on, and reinforced by, a strong set of of active competitors, we expect to be able to continue to source principles and consistent delivery of promises.
indd 55 02 03 2010 11:45 56 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 coRPoRate goveRnance RePoRt continued These interests do not include shares held under the share option 8. construction risk schemes described in the Directors Remuneration Report on The risks identified included: page 63.
Build quality There has been no change in these beneficial interests between Remediation contamination 30th November 2009 and 3rd February 2010.
Liability issues suBstantial inteRests Contractor failure As at 3rd February 2010 the company had been notified of the following interests in more than 3% of its issued share capital: The principal mitigating actions are: Number of Percentage of A strong internal construction management team Ordinary Ordinary Projects, acquisitions and disposals are reviewed and financially Shareholder Shares Held Share Capital appraised in detail within clearly defined authorisation limits Lady Clarke and family holdings Regular management reviews excluding S W Clarke 27,462,539 13.71% Use and close supervision of high-quality trusted contractors J. D. Leavesley and and professionals connected parties 18,543,382 9.25% Kempen Capital Contractual liability clearly defined Management 14,378,852 7.18% Close monitoring of contractors performance and financial BlackRock 10,686,153 5.33% viability Co-operative Asset Assessment The company is willing to accept a degree of Management 9,533,284 4.76% environmental contamination risk, enabling higher returns to be Aberforth Partners 8,771,568 4.38% made for the perceived higher risks undertaken.
These risks are Legal & General passed on or minimised where possible, but cannot be eliminated.
In Investment Management 7,096,686 3.54% our recent experience, the residual risks have been acceptably low.
CBRE Global Real Estate Securities 6,213,246 3.10% PRinciPal activities The company acts as the holding company of a group of property ReaPPointment of diRectoRs investment and development companies.
A list of the subsidiary The directors listed on pages 48 and 49 constituted the board and associated undertakings affecting the profit or net assets of at the end of the year.
Lesley James and Katherine Innes Ker, the group is included in note F to the company accounts.
having been appointed during the year, offer themselves for election.
John Salmon, Steve Burke and Simon Clarke will retire diRectoRs inteRests in oRdinaRy sHaRes from the board in accordance with the provisions of the companys The interests of the directors in the issued share capital of the Articles of Association and offer themselves for re-election at the company are shown below: 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Paul Rigg will retire from the board, and is not seeking re-election.
30th November 30th November 2009 2008 diRectoRs inteRests in contRacts Beneficial No contract existed during the year in relation to the companys S. J. Burke 112,123 26,938 business in which any director was materially interested.
S. W. Clarke 7,112,657 7,026,546 cReditoR Payment Policy C. C. A. Glossop 1,757,292 1,607,933 It is the companys policy to agree specific payment terms for its T. P. Haywood 155,324 91,251 business transactions with its suppliers and to abide by those L. James 10,000 terms whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the K. Innes Ker goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and I. Menzies-Gow 14,814 conditions.
co. uk During the year ended 30th November 2009 trade creditors addition to the usual period for questions which is made available represented an average of 31 days purchases 2008: 30 days.
This for shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, John Salmon, has been calculated by expressing year end creditors as a fraction the chairman of the Audit Committee, and Lesley James, the of purchases made in the year, and multiplying the resulting chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will be available to fraction by 365 days.
Any matters of concern regarding the company are discussed by the Senior Independent Director caPital stRuctuRe with shareholders or appropriate corporate governance bodies and On 30th November 2009 there were 200,360,931 2008: 120,773,954 comments are fed back by him to the whole board.
ordinary shares of 10p in issue, each with one vote.
During the year Copies of all press releases, investor presentations and under review the company successfully completed a Firm Placing annual reports are posted on the companys website and Placing and Open Offer of 79,586,977 new ordinary shares of www.
co. uk, together with additional details of major 10p each at 135p per share, raising a net 101.6m after costs.
projects, key financial information and company background.
emPloyees To simplify and encourage participation in voting on resolutions The group encourages employee involvement and places emphasis at our Annual General Meeting, the company provides the on keeping its employees informed of the groups activities opportunity to vote electronically through CREST for further and performance.
The companys executive runs quarterly details see page 115. management meetings at which staff are informed about information affecting them as employees, where their feedback electRonic communications is sought on decisions likely to affect their interests, and where Each year the company produces and posts annual reports to all a common awareness is achieved of the financial and economic of its shareholders, at considerable cost to the company and the factors affecting the companys performance.
In an effort to reduce the cost and the environmental then cascaded to staff at the companys head office and regional burden and provide instant access, the board has agreed to make offices.
A performance related annual bonus scheme and share more use of electronic and website communication.
Starting with option arrangements are designed to encourage employee the next half yearly report in 2010, all shareholder documentation involvement in the success of the group.
will be published directly on our website www.
The group operates a non-discriminatory employment policy under Shareholders will be notified by email or post each time a which full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants, to document is published on the website and how to find it.
The the continued employment of staff who become disabled, and to interim management statements will continue to be available via their continued career development and promotion.
It is the policy the website.
of the group that the training, career development and promotion Shareholders who prefer to receive a printed copy will be able to of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that elect to do so.
Shareholders who have elected to receive electronic of other employees.
communications can at any time change their election and require The group operates a pension scheme which is open to all the company to send them a paper copy of any document or employees see note 20 to the group accounts.
information which has been posted on the company website.
Although electronic communications will become the default Political donations and cHaRitaBle donations option, the company reserves the right to send printed documents The company did not make any political donations in the year.
by post, should the information be more suited to that format.
If Details of the companys charitable activities are included in the the company is required to restrict the sending of any documents CSR review.
Direct charitable donations, including donations made or information to any shareholder due to the local laws of the by the St. Modwen Environmental Trust during the year, totalled jurisdiction in which the shareholder is resident or located and as 14,000 2008: 7,000. a result, the company is not permitted to use electronic means to sHaReHoldeR Relations communicate with shareholders, it will send hard copies of the The executive directors have a programme of meetings with documents or information.
institutional shareholders and analysts at which the companys Business standaRds strategy and most recently reported performance are explained The company does not condone any form of corrupt behaviour in and questions and comments made are relayed to the whole business dealings and has disciplinary procedures in place to deal board.
Visits are also arranged to sites of particular interest or with any illegal or inappropriate activities by employees.
significance to assist investors understanding of the companys business.
The companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
