31 Statements Governance Financial statements Corporate governance statement Investors Chairmans foreword These matters include: There are many questions currently being raised about the group strategy: business objectives, long-range plans and governance and effectiveness of public company boards.
annual budgets: Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and annual and interim results, interim management statements confidence of all our stakeholders, and this can only be earned and dividends: by conducting our business responsibly.
Good governance board changes: practices need to be developed over time and at Davis we aim material acquisitions, disposals and contracts: to be at the forefront of best practice in order to deliver the major changes to the groups internal controls or to its risk companys strategy and, by doing so, promote the success management or financial reporting policies and procedures: of the business for the benefit of shareholders.
major changes to the groups capital, corporate or Although, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, I lead management structure: the governance process, it is a matter which is reserved to remuneration policy for senior executives: and the whole board for consideration.
At Davis, we do not view shareholder communications.
governance as a separate compliance exercise but the method Matters which are outside the scope of the schedule of matters by which we manage the group.
By doing so, I believe that the reserved for the board are decided by executive management.
board and the company are well placed to face the challenges arising from the current economic environment.
Composition During 2009 we have carried out an in-depth review of the During 2009, the board comprised the non-executive Chairman boards effectiveness and have produced, as we have done Christopher Kemball, the Chief Executive Roger Dye, the in previous years, an action plan to ensure continued Finance Director Kevin Quinn and four non-executive directors.
In the boards view all four non-executive directors during 2009 were independent of management and had no relationships Following the decision of Philip Rogerson to retire from the which would materially interfere with the exercise of their board, our Nomination Committee has performed a detailed independent judgement.
evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience the board will require during the next three years so that it can effectively On 1st January 2010 Peter Ventress was appointed as Chief address and challenge adequately the key business decisions Executive on the retirement of Roger Dye.
The company has and risks that confront the group.
also announced the retirement of Philip Rogerson and Ren Schuster from the board with effect from 28th February 2010 We have carefully recruited a new Chief Executive and three and the appointment of three new non-executive directors new non-executive directors to ensure that we have a with effect from 1st March 2010.
Details of the new nonmanagement team and board capable of taking the business executive directors and the current directors who will remain to the next stage of its development.
on the board from 1st March 2010 are set out on page 35.
In the boards view all new non-executives are independent of Christopher Kemball Chairman management and have no relationships which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance The board considers that during 2009 the non-executive The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 edition directors provided a solid foundation for good corporate sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions on governance for the group, ensuring that no individual or how companies should be directed and controlled to follow group dominated the boards decision-making, and that this good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authoritys will remain the case for 2010.
Collectively, the non-executive listing rules require the company to explain how it has applied directors have brought a wide range of international the Main Principles in Section 1 of the Combined Code experience and expertise to the board and will continue to do throughout 2009.
This report, together with the report on so.
All the continuing and new non-executives each occupy or directors remuneration, sets out how the company has done have occupied senior positions in industry and consequently so.
The listing rules also require the company to confirm that contribute significantly to board decision-making or will be it complied throughout 2009 with the detailed provisions in expected to do so after their appointments take effect.
Section 1 of the Combined Code and, if it did not do so, to provide relevant details.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are It is the boards view that the company has fully complied with the provisions in Section 1 of the Combined Code on separately held and the division of their responsibilities is Corporate Governance throughout 2009. clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The Chairman, Christopher Kemball, is responsible Further information on the Combined Code can be found on for the leadership of the board and for ensuring a challenging the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk and constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive directors.
Peter Ventress, the Chief Executive, The role of the board is responsible for leading and managing the business within The principal role of the board is to set the parameters the authorities delegated by the board.
Between board within which the group seeks to further the interests of its meetings there is regular interaction between the Chief shareholders and to monitor the performance of the executives Executive and the Chairman and, where necessary, with to whom it delegates the management of the business.
Although it does not involve itself with the day-to-day activities of management, the board does have a formal schedule of Senior independent director matters that are reserved for its own decision.
During 2009 Philip Rogerson was the senior independent di rector.
On Philips retirement, Iain Ferguson will become the senior independent director.
32 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement continued The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all non-executive Information flow directors receive ongoing training in order that they can Prior to each board meeting an agenda, together with appropriately perform their duties.
Training needs were supporting papers, is circulated to directors to ensure they are discussed at the non-executive directors meeting in December supplied with all the information required.
Included with these 2009 and, where appropriate, during the annual evaluation papers are detailed monthly accounts, together with reports of each director.
Each non-executive director currently serving from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Managing on the board has confirmed that in 2009 they have kept Directors of the Nordic, Continent and UK Ireland regions.
After each board meeting, there is a comprehensive follow-up themselves properly briefed and informed on current issues.
procedure to ensure that actions are completed as agreed by the board.
Briefing packs are also circulated in months where Re-election Under the companys Articles of Association all directors are board meetings are not scheduled.
As part of this process, the subject to re-election to the board every three years.
Any board also reviewed and approved the groups 2010 budget.
director appointed by the board during the year will also stand Between board meetings regular management updates are for appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General sent to each director.
These updates ensure that the nonMeeting.
In accordance with the Combined Code, all nonexecutive directors are kept well informed of the latest issues executive directors who have served for more than nine years affecting the group.
must also submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director ensure that the board is kept fully aware on a timely basis of business issues Board independence and prospects throughout the group.
Both are directors of In December 2009, the nomination committee performed a Sunlight Service Group, the holding company of our UK trading thorough review of the independence of the non-executive businesses, and attend bi-monthly UK Ireland board meetings, directors.
as well as having frequent less formal contact with Sunlight The committee concluded that all the non-executive directors board members.
They are also directors of Sophus Berendsen remain independent from management and provide a strong A S, the management company of our Nordic and Continent independent element on the board, being free from any businesses, and, as well as attending bi-monthly Nordic and business or other relationship which could materially interfere Continent board meetings, they periodically attend individual country board meetings, thereby meeting the management with the exercise of their judgement.
The key issues raised at these To safeguard their independence, directors are not entitled meetings are brought to the attention of the board.
Also, as to vote on any matter in which they have a material personal with the UK Ireland region, frequent less formal contact is interest unless the directors unanimously decide otherwise and, maintained with Nordic and Continent board members.
where necessary, directors are required to absent themselves During 2009 the board met senior management teams at from a meeting of the board while such a matter is being discussed.
To strengthen the independence of the nonboth Berendsen and Sunlight.
This was achieved through site executive directors and to enable them to discuss more freely visits to Denmark in May 2009 and London in September 2009.
These sessions were comprehensive and gave board the performance of the groups executive management, the Chairman meets formally with the non-executive directors at members detailed insight into the operations of our businesses, their challenges and opportunities.
These meetings and least once each year without the executives being present.
subsequent follow-up are representative of the free flow of The independence of the directors is further supported by information and communication between the board and the the work of the Company Secretary whose appointment senior management teams within the group.
Similar sessions and removal is the responsibility of the board as a whole.
have already been scheduled for 2010.
The Company Secretary, who is also secretary to the audit, The Company Secretary manages the provision of information nomina tion and remuneration committees, ensures that board to the board in connection with formal board meetings and at procedures are complied with and provides advice on corporate other appropriate times, in consultation with the Chairman and governance and regulatory compliance.
All directors have Chief Executive.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman unfettered access to the advice and services of the Company and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all directors.
There is also an agreed procedure by which directors can, where necessary for the discharge of their duties, obtain The Chairman also holds informal meetings with non-executive independent professional advice at the companys expense.
directors, without any of the executives being present, to discuss any issues affecting the group.
John Burns has served on the board for more than nine years and as a result the board has in particular reviewed the extent Induction and continuing professional development to which he remains independent.
Following this review, the There is a formal induction programme for all new nonboard are of the view that he continues to demonstrate strong executive directors covering matters such as the operations independence in character and judgement and in the manner and activities of the group, the groups key financial and in which he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
non-financial risks, the role of the board and the matters Consequently, the board is satisfied that, despite his length of reserved for its own decision, and the responsibilities of the tenure, there is no association with management that could groups board committees.
Peter Ventress completed his compromise his independence and that therefore he remains detailed induction to the group and handover from Roger Dye independent.
The induction programme for the As required by the Combined Code, John Burns will be subject new non-executive directors will be completed by the end to re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Following of the second quarter in 2010.
The company will offer a formal performance evaluation, the board has concluded that major shareholders the opportunity to meet the new his performance as non-executive director continues to be non-executive directors.
His long association with the group enables him to provide a robust and effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed knowledge of the groups business that he has developed.
33 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Board committees The three principal committees of the board are the audit committee, the nomination committee and the remuneration committee.
Their membership was, and from 1st March 2010 will be: during 2009 from 1st March 2010 Audit committee Philip Rogerson chairman Andrew Wood chairman Ren Schuster David Lowden Per Utnegaard Per Utnegaard Nomination committee Christopher Kemball chairman Christopher Kemball chairman John Burns John Burns Roger Dye Iain Ferguson Philip Rogerson David Lowden Ren Schuster Per Utnegaard Per Utnegaard Peter Ventress Andrew Wood Remuneration committee Per Utnegaard chairman Per Utnegaard chairman Christopher Kemball Iain Ferguson Philip Rogerson Christopher Kemball Ren Schuster David Lowden Andrew Wood Attendance at meetings The board requires all directors to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, and board visits to Denmark and London, the board met nine times during 2009.
One of these meetings was the strategy review meeting during October 2009.
In addition, as referred to above, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors in December 2009.
The attendance of all individual directors at board and committee meetings for the year ended 31st December 2009 is detailed below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee directors held attended held attended held attended held attended J D Burns 9 9 3 3 I R Dye 9 9 3 3 C R M Kemball 9 9 8 8 3 3 K Quinn 9 9 P G Rogerson 9 9 3 3 8 8 3 3 R H Schuster 8 9 3 3 7 8 2 3 P H Utnegaard 9 9 3 3 8 8 3 3 Excluding non-executive directors meetings and site visits.
Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest The board has put procedures in place to deal with situations where a director has a conflict of interest.
As part of these procedures, the board: considers each conflict situation separately based on its particular facts: considers the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their duties under the Companies Act 2006: keeps records and board minutes as to authorisations granted by directors and the scope of any approvals given: and regularly reviews conflict authorisations.
The board has complied with these procedures during the year.
34 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement continued Performance evaluation In the last quarter of 2009 the board carried out a comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and each of its individual directors.
The process was led by the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
As in previous years, the views of all directors were canvassed in respect of the performance of the board as a whole and of its committees.
Each director was also asked to assess the strengths and weaknesses of his individual contribution to the boards performance.
The board also engaged the services of Lintstock, an independent governance consultancy, to assist in the formulation and distribution of the questionnaires and to help in the collation and analysis of the results.
Amongst other things, the assessment focused on the boards: contribution to the testing and development of group strategy: understanding of, and contribution to, the groups risk management: oversight of the risks and opportunities inherent in the management of group subsidiaries: performance assessments for regional managing directors: relationships with senior management: and alignment of executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
This process was complemented with separate meetings between each director and the Chairman where feedback was discussed.
The evaluation of the Chairman himself was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, through consultation with the other directors and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the exercise described above, the executive directors are evaluated in respect of their executive duties through a separate process whereby the Chairman and the non-executive directors assess the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive assesses the Finance Director and the other members of the Executive Board.
The full results of the board evaluation were initially discussed at the non-executive directors meeting in December 2009 and then presented to the board later that month.
The directors have concluded that, following this comprehensive review, the board and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each director is contributing to the overall effectiveness and success of the group.
Nevertheless, in light of the evaluation, the board has identified a number of areas in which further improvement is required.
Board performance evaluation 2009 objectives 2009 achievements Improved knowledge of markets and key customer Board site visits in May Denmark and September London requirements.
which included local management presentations and site visits to workwear, mat and decontamination plants.
Improved provision of information to non-executive directors.
Ensuring the business units work more closely together, Procurement strategy presentation to the board in particularly in procurement.
Above-budget savings on procurement achieved.
Increased focus on risk management in the current Contingency planning for all business units established economic climate.
which was regularly reviewed by the board during 2009.
For 2010 the performance objectives that the board has set for itself include: assisting and supporting the new Chief Executive: the induction of the three new non-executive directors: increased focus on management development and talent management: and improved interaction between the board and senior management.
Role of the executive board The executive board sits at the apex of managerial decision-making within the company.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other members are the Finance Director, the three Regional Managing Directors and the Company Secretary.
In addition to regular and ad hoc communication between members, during 2009 the executive board met formally four times and also conducted seven meetings by conference call.
The members of the executive board have collective responsibility for running the groups business.
They develop the groups strategy and budget for board approval and monitor the financial, operational and service performance of the whole group.
They review the group risk register, allocate resources across the group within plans agreed by the board, plan and initiate major cross-business programmes, oversee development plans for the senior talent base and succession plans for the group.
