UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 34 Corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2009 Board of Directors During the course of the year, The Companys corporate governance procedures provide that the Company complied with the the full Board of Directors shall meet at least six times a year.
During 2009, there were 11 meetings of the full Board, all of principles of best practice set out which were attended by each of the Directors then appointed, in Section 1 of the Combined other than one, which Mr S R H Beevor was unable to attend.
Code issued by the Financial The Board receives regular reports from each of the Groups business units, but itself retains full and effective control of the Reporting Council in June 2006 Groups activities, with a formal schedule of matters specifically and as subsequently amended reserved for decision by the full Board.
In particular, the full Board sets the strategic objectives, business plan and annual budgets the Combined Code.
for the Group, with major investment decisions also requiring Board approval.
Operational responsibility is delegated to the Groups Leadership Executive.
Terms of reference have been set by the Board for its various committees and for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The terms of reference for the Chairman and the Chief Executive are such as to clearly establish the division of responsibility between the two roles.
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whilst procedures are in place allowing for individual Directors to take independent legal advice.
A programme for the training of Directors has been put in place.
The current Board consists of three Executive Directors, namely Mr M C Allan Chief Executive : Mr J M Tonkiss Chief Operating Officer : and Mr J J Lister Chief Financial Officer, as well as Mr P M White Chairman, Mr N P Hall Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and two other Non-Executive Directors Messrs S R H Beevor and R S Walker.
Mr G K Maddrell and Mr N A Porter respectively served as Chairman and Deputy Chairman until 15 May 2009, on which date they stood down from the Board.
Mr P M White, who was appointed an additional Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 21 January 2009, became Chairman of the Board on 15 May 2009.
Each of the current Non-Executive Directors, is considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any personal, business or other relationship with the Group, save for the receipt of Directors fees and interests in shares of the Company.
The Company therefore meets the requirement of the Combined Code in relation to members of the FTSE 350 to which the Company was re-admitted in December 2009, that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman, is made up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors has a written service contract, whilst each of the Non-Executive Directors has a formal letter of engagement.
Executive Directors have rolling contracts of employment with 12 months notice periods, whilst Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the full Board for a term not exceeding three years.
The letters of appointment relating to the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and for the 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee.
The terms of reference for each such committee which are published on the Companys website are reviewed annually by the relevant committee, as is the effectiveness of each such committee.
Set out below are sections describing the work of the committees in discharging their respective responsibilities.
UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35 The Committee determines remuneration policy and advises Audit Committee the Board accordingly.
In particular, the Committee makes During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Messrs N P Hall, recommendations regarding the terms of employment of Executive S R H Beevor and R S Walker, all being independent NonDirectors and senior managers, including terms of remuneration, Executive Directors.
Mr Hall acted as Chairman of the Audit long term incentive plan awards and other incentives.
Mr M C Allan Committee throughout the year.
Mr Hall is a Chartered Accountant is invited to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee but and was, until February 2003, finance director of Arcadia Group plc takes no part in the discussions concerning his own remuneration formerly The Burton Group plc.
and does not attend those parts of the meetings of the Committee During the year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions, that consider that issue.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set all of which meetings were attended by each of its members.
The Audit Committee meets with the Chief Financial Officer and During the course of 2009, five meetings of the Remuneration with the external auditors and reviews the annual accounts and Committee were held, all of which were attended by each of the the preliminary and interim financial results announcements prior then current members of the Committee.
to submission to the Board.
The Audit Committee also reviews compliance with accounting standards, the scope and extent of Nominations Committee the external audit programme and the appointment, independence During the year, the Nominations Committee was, until he and remuneration of the auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit stood down from the Board on 15 May 2009, chaired by Mr G K Committee reports to the Board on matters discussed at meetings Maddrell other than for meetings where the appointment of a of the Audit Committee.
new Chairman to the Board was being considered, in which cases During the course of the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Mr N A Porter, who was then Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, chaired the Committee.
Mr P M White took over as Chairman need for an internal audit function within the Group.
The conclusion of that review was that, in view of the existing controls in place of the Nominations Committee on his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 15 May 2009.
The exact composition of the including an operational compliance audit regime, and the size of the Group, a Group internal audit function was not required.
Committee is variable, provided that each meeting has a majority represented by independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the However, the position is being kept under review.
course of 2009, two meetings of the Nominations Committee were The Audit Committee has established a formal policy with regard held, each of which was attended by Messrs P M White, N P Hall, to the Companys appointment of the external audit firm for the S R H Beevor, R S Walker and M C Allan.
In addition, the Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to reviews any potential threat to the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, including, in particular, those potential threats the Board on any appointment or re-appointment to the Board and at senior executive level.
It is also responsible for ensuring identified by the Auditing Practices Board in its independence guidelines.
The Committee determines and then reports to the that plans are in place for an orderly succession of appointments to the Board and at senior management level, so as to maintain Board, whether or not it is satisfied that the independence of the external auditor is not jeopardised, taking into account the external an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
auditors own submissions to the Committee and or the Board.
During the course of the year, the non-audit services provided The process for evaluating the performance of the Executive Directors flows from the setting of the overall business strategy for to the Group related to tax advisory and compliance matters: and work relating to the placing and open offer undertaken by the Group.
Once agreed by the Board, the Executive Directors produce divisional strategies and milestone action plans designed the Company in September 2009. to deliver the agreed overall strategy.
Such strategies and plans, which are challenged and may be revised prior to being ratified by Remuneration Committee the Board, then form the basis of personal objectives that are set During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprises for each of the Executive Directors.
Mr S R H Beevor who acted as Chairman, Mr N P Hall and Mr R S Walker all being independent Non-Executive Directors, The performance of the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed together with Mr G K Maddrell until he stood down from the Board annually by the Chairman, whilst the performance of the Chairman on 15 May 2009, and Mr P M White as from 4 September 2009. is considered annually by the Non-Executive Directors in the As Mr Maddrell, who was Chairman of the Company until 15 May absence of the Chairman, in both cases taking account of the 2009, was considered independent on his appointment to that views of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman and the Nonrole, his membership of the Remuneration Committee was in Executive Directors also on an annual basis, meet to consider the accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, as overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Likewise, Mr P M White, who became meetings are then followed by full Board review meetings, which Chairman of the Board on 15 May 2009, was considered are attended by all members of the Board.
independent on his appointment to that role, in which case his membership of the Committee is also in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Governance 2945 UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 36 Corporate governance continued Social responsibility Internal Control The Company has formal procedures for considering the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of significance to its business of social, environmental and ethical internal control.
However, such a system is designed to achieve SEE matters, which are considered as part of the Groups risk business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not management system referred to above in relation to Business absolute assurance against material mis-statement.
The results of the benchmarking reviews which The provisions of the Combined Code in respect of internal form part of that system which are carried out by the Groups controls require that directors review all controls including Leadership Executive, are reported to and considered by the operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial full Board on a six-monthly basis.
Details of the risks and control.
Through reports from the Groups Leadership Executive, uncertainties that are considered most significant to the Group the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system are set out on pages 26 and 27. of internal controls for the period covered by the annual report In light of the above, the Board believes that it has in place and accounts and has concluded that such controls were effective appropriate procedures to identify and assess the significant risks throughout such period.
to the Companys short and long-term value arising from SEE The Company has an established framework of internal controls matters, as well as opportunities to enhance value that may arise which, amongst other things, includes the following: from an appropriate response.
In that respect, the Board considers that it receives adequate information to make those assessments Financial reporting and that the Company has in place effective measures for The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an managing significant risks.
Account is taken of SEE matters in annual business plan approved by the Board.
Operating results relation to the training of Directors.
and cash flows are reported on monthly and compared against budget.
Forecasts are reviewed throughout the year and revised Investor relations as necessary.
The Company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
The Executive Directors have a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Feedback from such Investment appraisal meetings regarding shareholder opinion is provided to the Board The Company has clearly defined guidelines for capital as a whole.
In addition, the Senior Independent Non-Executive expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal Director is available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence The Companys Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity, requirements where investment or development properties are which the Board encourages, for private investors to communicate being acquired.
Post-investment appraisals are performed for with the Company.
Business risk assessment Going concern The Group has developed a comprehensive risk management After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable system whereby strategic threats to the business are identified and expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate the management and control of those threats prioritised.
As a result resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of this system, the Board is satisfied with the high level controls in future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern place, although all areas of the business are kept under review and basis in preparing the accounts.
new controls introduced as appropriate.
An analysis of the more important risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is set out on pages 26 and 27.
The Groups objectives and policies with regard to the management of financial risks are set out in note 20 to the Financial statements.
