GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 43 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to attaining high standards of Corporate Governance in accordance with the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the 2006 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, where applicable, describes how the Board has applied the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code.
Statement of compliance The Board considers that it complied throughout the year with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Code provision A.
3.2 requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-executive Directors.
The Company was not in compliance with this requirement throughout the year, as from 27 June 2008, the Board comprised a Chairman, four Executive Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors.
Code provision C. 3.1 requires that the Audit Committee is comprised of at least three independent Non-executive Directors.
The Company was not in compliance with the requirement from 27 June 2008.
The role of the Board The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board as a whole.
The key task of the Board is to formulate strategy and to monitor the operating and financial performance of the Group in pursuit of the Groups strategic long-term objectives.
In particular these include the annual budget, share capital changes, approval of interim and annual results, treasury policy, dividend policy, shareholder distributions, Corporate Governance matters and the maintenance and review of the Groups system of internal control.
Formal Board meetings were held six times during the year under review.
There were no absences from any Board meetings by any Director except that Mr Mike Tanner did not attend the meeting held on 11 June 2008 due to other commitments.
The Board also schedules additional meetings in relation to certain corporate projects and to ful l legal obligations.
In addition to the formal meetings of the whole Board, the Non-executive Directors meet with the Group Chairman in the months not covered by a Board meeting.
The Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director are invited to attend these meetings in part, to provide an update on the business activities of the Group.
The Non-executive Directors meet at least annually without the Group Chairman present, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Mr David Howell.
Board papers and agendas are sent out in the week prior to each meeting, thus allowing suf cient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
In addition, the Board is supplied with comprehensive management information on a regular basis, including on a monthly basis, a detailed Group management accounts pack that reports the actual and forecast financial performance, in addition to other key performance indicators across the Group.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures Directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, which they may incur in carrying out their duties.
The Board and Directors At the date of this report the Board comprises eight Directors: the Chairman, four Executive Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors.
As a consequence, while the Board does not currently have the balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors envisaged by the Code, Berkeley is of the opinion that the overall balance is appropriate for the effective operation of the Board.
Notwithstanding this, the Board is looking for an additional Non-executive Director of the appropriate calibre and with skills that complement the existing Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors Messrs David Howell, Alan Coppin and John Armitt have skills and experience complementary to the Executive Directors, offer independent judgement when required and remain independent.
Brief biographies appear on page 30.
The Group Executive Directors do not hold any Non-executive Director appointments or commitments required to be disclosed under the Combined Code.
Mr Mike Tanner resigned from the Board on 27 June 2008.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Managing Director are separately held and there are clear written guidelines to support the division of responsibility between them.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board and shareholder meetings and for ensuring that each Director contributes to effective decision-making.
The Group Managing Director has day-to-day executive responsibility for the running of the Groups businesses.
His role is to develop and deliver the strategy to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
Mr David Howell, Mr Alan Coppin and Mr John Armitt were appointed to the Board as Non-executive Directors on 24 February 2004, 1 September 2006, and 1 October 2007 respectively and it is the unanimous view of the Board that they were independent during the year.
An induction programme is provided for new Directors, which includes the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on the Group, one-to-one meetings with all Directors and key staff as well as visits to major sites.
In addition to the induction programme for new Directors, additional ongoing training has been identi ed as part of the Board evaluation process, which is tailored to each Director.
All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advisers, at the Companys expense, where speci c expertise is required in the course of their duties.
Arrangements are also made for the Non-executive Directors to attend site visits and to meet with the Managing Directors of the operating companies independent of the Executive Directors.
indb 43 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:47:00 09:47:00 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT [CONTINUED] No Executive Director has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or with provisions for predetermined compensation on termination.
The terms of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are renewable annually on 1 May with one months written notice and are subject to the re-election provisions of the Articles of Association.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share incentive or bonus plans.
A minimum shareholding requirement is set for all Directors.
The Articles of Association of the Company include the requirement for Directors to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election every three years, in accordance with the Combined Code.
In addition, all Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 34 to 42.
Board evaluation A review of the operation of the Board, its committees and the skills of the Directors was undertaken during the year.
The process was led by the Chairman.
All Directors completed the wide-ranging appraisal questionnaire and the results were reviewed by the Board.
The process con rmed the ongoing effectiveness of the Board.
Board committees The Board has delegated certain matters to individual Executives and to speci c committees of the Board.
The responsibilities of the key Board committees are described below.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets monthly and reviews the financial and operating performance of all Group divisions and companies.
The Group Managing Director chairs this Committee and other members comprise Messrs. Tony Carey, Greg Fry and Rob Perrins.
The following three Board committees operate within clearly fide ned Terms of Reference pursuant to the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Terms of Reference can be downloaded from the section dealing with Investor Relations on the Berkeley website www.
Copies are also available to shareholders on application to the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr David Howell, FCA, and the other member is Mr Alan Coppin.
During the year, Mr Mike Tanner retired from the Committee on 27 June 2008, the date of his retirement from the Board.
The Group Chairman who, prior to being appointed Chairman, was a member of the Audit Committee, continues to attend the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Group Finance Director and representatives of the external and internal auditors also attend the Committees meetings by invitation.
The Committee met formally on three occasions during the year to 30 April 2009 with no absences, except that Mr Mike Tanner did not attend the meeting held on 24 June 2008 due to other commitments.
Mr David Howell, who quali ed as a chartered accountant in 1971 and was the Chief Financial Of cer and a Main Board Director of lastminute.
com plc until March 2005 is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr David Howell was also Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nestor Healthcare Group plc from 2000 to 2003.
The Committee has formal Terms of Reference which set out its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in Corporate Governance by undertaking the following key responsibilities, all of which were performed during the year: monitoring the integrity of the financial reporting of the Company, including its annual and interim reports and other formal announcements relating to financial performance: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and disclosure of statements concerning these in the Annual Report: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, reviewing the scope of the Groups internal audit programme and considering the findings and recommendations of the reports produced from this programme: and overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, including appointment, removal and fees, and ensuring the auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee has a policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services in order to safeguard auditor independence, with a pre-determined limit above which approval of the Audit Committee is required and identi es certain areas of work from which the auditors are precluded.
Tax and due diligence services are provided by a small number of different rms, including the Groups auditors.
The auditors may be used for such services where their knowledge of the business is such that they are deemed the most appropriate supplier.
Notwithstanding these safeguards, all non-audit work carried out by the auditors is noti ed to the Audit Committee Chairman on an ongoing basis and formally reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
indb 44 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:47:00 09:47:00 45 The auditors have open recourse to the Non-executive Directors, should they consider it necessary, and there is open dialogue between the auditors and the Chairman of the Audit Committee before each Audit Committee meeting and, after the meeting, the opportunity to meet without the Executive Directors present.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Companys policy for Executive remuneration and the precise terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee report is set out on pages 34 to 42.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Alan Coppin and the other members comprise Mrs Victoria Mitchell and Mr John Armitt.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The Committee takes into consideration the recommendations of the Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director regarding the remuneration of their Executive colleagues.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year to April 2009 with no absences, except that Mr John Armitt was not able to attend the meeting held on 28 October 2008 due to other commitments.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her remuneration.
The Executive Directors decide the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee was primarily established to propose new appointments to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning.
The Committee is chaired by Mrs Victoria Mitchell with Messrs David Howell and John Armitt as Independent Non-executive members.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and at such times as required to carry out the duties of the Committee.
The Committee met formally on two occasions during the year to 30 April 2009 with no absences.
The process for identifying and recommending new appointments to the Board includes a combination of discussions and consultations, in addition to formal interviews, utilising the services of independent recruitment specialists, as appropriate.
Key risks and internal control The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board con rms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks of the Group has been in place from the start of the year to the date on which the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts were approved.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance issued in 2005, and includes an annual review by the Directors of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control as part of its year-end procedures.
Internal control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In conducting these reviews, the Board has taken into consideration the following established framework of internal controls within the Group: Clear organisational structure The Group operates through autonomous divisions and operating companies, each with its own Board.
Operating company boards meet on a weekly basis and divisional boards on a monthly basis, and comprehensive information is prepared for such meetings on a standardised basis to cover all aspects of the business.
Formal reporting lines and delegated levels of authority exist within this structure and review of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout both the operating companies and divisions, and the Group.
indb 45 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:47:01 09:47:01 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT [CONTINUED] Risk assessment Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing management reporting throughout the Group.
At operating company and divisional level, Board meeting agendas and packs are structured around the key risks facing the Group.
These include sales demand risk, production risk build cost and programme, land and planning risk as well as a review of speci c site risks.
In addition, there is a formalised process whereby each division produces quarterly risk and control reports that identify signi cant risks, the potential impact and the actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
These risk reports are reviewed and updated regularly and reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Berkeley has a variety of systems in place to address the sustainability risks associated with its operations, including a Land Acquisition Sustainability Risk Assessment Checklist, and sustainability issues are incorporated within Strategic Risk Registers for each project.
Each division has processes in place to ensure that sustainability is managed during the construction phase, which includes signing all sites up to the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Financial reporting A comprehensive budgeting and real-time forecasting system, covering both pro t and cash, operates within the Group.
This enables executive management to view key financial and operating data on a daily basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis more formal reporting up to the Group Executive and the Board is prepared.
The results of all operating units are reported monthly and compared to budget and forecast.
Policies and procedures Policies and procedures, including operating and financial controls, are detailed in policies and procedures manuals that are refreshed and improved as appropriate.
Training to staff is given where necessary.
Central functions Where appropriate, strong central functions, such as Group Legal, Group Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, provide support and consistency to the rest of the Group.
In addition, the principal treasury-related risks, decisions and control processes are managed by the Group Finance function, under the direction of the Group Finance Director.
Investment and contracting controls The Group has clearly fide ned guidelines for the purchase and sale of land within the Group, which include detailed environmental, planning and financial appraisal and are subject to executive authorisation.
Rigorous procedures are also followed for the selection of consultants and contractors.
The review and monitoring of all build programmes and budgets are a fundamental element of the Companys financial reporting cycle.
Internal audit Internal auditors are in place in each division and at Group to provide assurance on the operation of the Groups control framework.
Whistleblowing The Group has a whistleblowing policy which has been communicated to all staff, where Directors, management and staff can report in con dence any concerns they may have of malpractice, financial irregularity, breaches of any Group procedures, or other matters.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its current and prospective shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional investors.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet all Directors after the Annual General Meeting in addition to individual meetings with shareholders.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Companys activities through the Annual and Interim Reports.
In addition, the corporate website gives information on the Group and latest news, including regulatory announcements.
The presentations made after the announcement of the preliminary and interim results are also available on the website.
The Board is kept informed of the view of the shareholders through periodic reports from the Companys broker UBS.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels has failed or when such contact is inappropriate.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting where the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions and will also be available for discussions with shareholders both prior to and after the meeting.
The Company arranges for the Annual Report and Accounts and related papers to be posted to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days for consideration prior to the Annual General Meeting.
indb 46 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:47:01 09:47:01 47 The Company complies with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, which, including abstentions, are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and are announced to the Stock Exchange shortly after the close of the meeting.
The Company also complies with the requirements of the Combined Code with the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-executive Directors, which set out their expected time commitment, in addition to the service contracts for the Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and during normal business hours at the Companys registered of ce.
Following approval at the 2004 Annual General Meeting of the amendment to the Companys Articles to allow the Company the power to provide electronic voting facilities for shareholders who hold their shares through Crest, the Company was then able to use Crest voting facilities for the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Going concern After making proper enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors Remuneration Report con rm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: a. the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Group: and b. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board R J Stearn Company Secretary 17 July 2009 R&A R&A PRINT.
