32 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report approval of portfolio company valuations review of the corporate responsibility The Companys approach to and review of the performance and plans for initiatives and performance: corporate governance each portfolio company: review of the relationship with 3i Group plc Although there is no published corporate review of the adequacy of internal control as a shareholder: governance regime specific to Jersey, the systems including those operated by Company is committed to the highest review of the performance of key service independent service providers: and standards of corporate governance.
It providers to the Company: and observes the requirements of the Combined appointments to the Board and review of the independence of Directors.
Code on Corporate Governance published by determination of terms of appointment the UK Financial Reporting Council in June of Directors.
Information 2006 the Combined Code, as modified by Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2 and to the extent Reports and papers are circulated to the Meetings of the Board applicable to the Company, given that it has no Directors in a timely manner in preparation for The Board is required to meet a minimum of executive directors.
Throughout the year, the Board and committee meetings.
These papers four times a year.
A calendar of eight Company complied with the provisions of are supplemented by information specifically scheduled main Board meetings was agreed at section 1 of the Combined Code on the basis requested by the Directors from time to time.
Due to the nature of the set out above, with two exceptions: given the Boards close involvement in the operation of size and composition of the Board, the Performance evaluation the Company and in making investmentCompany does not have a nominations or a During the year, the Board conducted a formal related decisions, a number of further remuneration committee.
The Board as a evaluation of its own performance and that of meetings are arranged at shorter notice.
whole instead reviews the scale and structure its committees and individual Directors with During the year, there were eight main of the Directors remuneration, taking into the assistance of Dr Tracy Long from meetings of the Board of Directors.
In addition account the interests of shareholders and the Boardroom Review, a specialist consultancy.
to these meetings, there were four full Board performance of the Company.
The Chairman led the process.
All Board meetings arranged at short notice and five The Board has adopted a code of Directors members gave personal views to the meetings of specifically formed committees dealings in ordinary shares, which is based on Chairman and the Chairman gave feedback to of the Board.
the Model Code for directors dealings the Board.
Additionally, the Senior The Directors attendance at main Board contained in the Listing Rules the Model Independent Director, Phil Austin, led a review meetings is set out in the table below: Code.
The Board will be responsible for by the Directors of the performance of the taking all proper and reasonable steps to Chairman.
Following the completion of the Number of meetings ensure compliance with the Model Code by whilst a Director Attendance above process the Board: the Directors.
Peter Sedgwick 8 8 noted the significant role the Phil Austin 8 8 Investment Adviser undertook in the The Boards responsibilities and 1 Companys asset management and processes Sir John Collins 22 determined to receive more regular updates Martin Dryden 8 8 The Board is responsible to shareholders for on operational performance of its portfolio the overall management of the Company.
Peter Wagner 8 8 companies from the Investment Adviser: It determines matters including financial Paul Waller 8 7 determined the scope of control reviews strategy and planning and takes all investment Steven Wilderspin 8 8 being conducted by the Investment Adviser: decisions, taking into account the advice it and receives from the Investment Adviser.
1 Sir John Collins was appointed to the Board on 27 November 2008 The Board has put in place an organisational noted a need for more regular communication structure.
This is further described under the The principal matters considered by the Board by the Board with the Companys largest heading internal control.
during the year included: shareholders.
The Board has approved a formal schedule of the Companys strategy, budget and The Chairman matters reserved to it and the Audit financial resources: Committee for decision.
These include: The Chairman leads the Board in the the Companys capital structure, balance determination of its strategy and in the approval of the Companys overall strategy, sheet efficiency and taxation arrangements: achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is plans and annual operating budget: approval of investment decisions: responsible for organising the business of the approval of the Companys half-yearly and Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting review of portfolio asset performance: annual financial statements and changes in its agenda.
The Chairman also acts as a the Companys accounting policies or review of counterparty exposure and limits: manager of 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg practices: Holdings S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure review of the Companys hedging strategy: Luxembourg S. r. l. which are subsidiaries of approval of changes relating to the capital review of regular reports from the the Company.
The Chairman facilitates the structure of the Company or its regulated Investment Adviser relating to the effective contribution of all the Directors and status: infrastructure market and early stage workconstructive relations between the Companys approval of the appointment and removal of in-progress: advisers, including the Investment Adviser, and the Investment Adviser and periodic review the Directors.
The Chairman ensures that the recommendations of the Investment and continued approval of key agreements regular reports from the Companys advisers Adviser on the valuation of investments: with service providers, including the are circulated to the Directors to enable Investment Advisory Agreement with the Companys share price performance and Directors to remain aware of shareholders 3i Investments: shareholder perceptions following the views.
The Chairman ensures that a release of the financial information: programme of effective communication with approval of the major changes in the nature the Companys shareholders is followed.
of business operations or investment policy: review of the risk management arrangements, internal controls and the approval of investments and divestments: investment approval process: 3i Infrastructure plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2009 As well as seeking an appropriate balance of Senior Independent Director Directors independence expertise and experience, especially in finance Phil Austin was appointed Senior Independent All the Directors, with the exception of and infrastructure, the nominations process has Director on 29 May 2008 and has been in Paul Waller, are considered by the Board to be to take account of the residence of Directors.
In accordance with the independent for the purposes of the Because the majority of Directors have to be Combined Code, concerns can be conveyed to Combined Code.
The Board assesses and non-resident in the UK and for practical the Senior Independent Director.
reviews the independence of each of the reasons relating to the conduct of the Directors at least annually, having regard to Companys affairs most are resident in the Directors the potential relevance and materiality of a Channel Islands, the search procedure has not Directors interests and relationships, rather The Board comprises the Chairman and six previously used an external search consultancy, than applying rigid criteria in a mechanistic non-executive Directors.
Biographical details although the intention is to involve one for manner.
No Director was materially interested for each of the Directors are set out on future appointments to the Board.
in any contract or arrangement subsisting page 29.
Peter Sedgwick, Phil Austin, The Board is assisted by an Audit Committee during or at the end of the financial year that Martin Dryden, Peter Wagner, Paul Waller which reports regularly to the Board.
was significant in relation to the business of and Steven Wilderspin served throughout The membership of this committee is the Company.
Sir John Collins served regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Audit as a Director from 1 January 2009.
Committee has clearly defined terms of Training and development No Director has a service contract with the reference which are available at www.
3iThe Company has developed a framework Company, nor are any such contracts infrastructure.
The terms of reference within which training for Directors is planned, proposed.
The Directors were appointed as of the Audit Committee provide that no one with the objective of ensuring Directors non-executive Directors by the subscribers other than the chairman and members may understand the duties and responsibilities to the Memorandum of Association of the attend a meeting unless invited.
of being a director of a listed company.
Company or at a subsequent Board meeting.
All Directors are required to update their skills Audit Committee Their appointment was confirmed by and maintain their familiarity with the The Audit Committee comprises letters dated 29 January 2007 in the Company and its business continually.
Martin Dryden, Phil Austin, Sir John Collins, case of Peter Sedgwick, Phil Austin and Presentations on different aspects of the Steven Wilderspin and Peter Wagner, all of Martin Dryden, 16 February 2007 in the case Companys business are made regularly to the whom served throughout the year, save for of Peter Wagner, 27 March 2007 in the case Board, most commonly by the Investment Sir John Collins who served from 27 January of Paul Waller, 20 September 2007 in the Adviser.
On appointment, all Directors have 2009.
All the members of the Audit case of Steven Wilderspin and 27 November discussions with the Chairman, following which Committee are independent non-executive 2008 in the case of Sir John Collins.
appropriate briefings on the responsibilities of Directors.
The Board is satisfied that the Audit Their appointment is expressed to be subject Directors, the Companys business and Committee chairman, Martin Dryden, and his to the Companys Articles of Association.
the Companys procedures are arranged.
replacement, Steven Wilderspin, have recent The Directors appointment can be terminated The Company provides opportunities for and relevant financial experience.
in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Directors to obtain a thorough understanding During the year, there were five meetings The remuneration of each of the Directors was of the Companys business and the industry it of the Audit Committee.
The members who subject to fixed fee, and none of the Directors operates in by meeting senior members of the served throughout the year attended all received any additional remuneration or investment advisory team who in turn can meetings, with the exception of Peter Wagner incentives in respect of their services as a arrange, as required, visits to portfolio who attended four out of the five.
Sir John Collins attended the one meeting During the financial year to 31 March 2009, During the year the Directors received held following his appointment.
the Directors were due the following training, briefing or advice on the following: During the year, the Audit Committee: emoluments in the form of fees: valuation techniques, including discounted reviewed the effectiveness of the internal cash flow methodologies: Director Total fees control environment of the Company and Peter Sedgwick 115,000 changes in Listing Rules and legal update in the Companys compliance with its relation to changes to laws in Jersey and the Phil Austin 45,000 regulatory requirements: UK: and 1 Sir John Collins 11,250 reviewed and recommended to the Board the role of the non-executive director.
the accounting disclosures comprised in the Martin Dryden 43,500 interim and annual financial statements of Directors also received presentations on Peter Wagner 71,500 the Company and reviewed the scope of the specific aspects of the Companys business.
Paul Waller 41,000 annual external audit plan and the external The Company has procedures for Directors to audit findings: Steven Wilderspin 42,500 take independent legal or other professional received relevant reports from Internal Audit 1 Sir John Collins was paid emoluments from 1 January 2009. advice about the performance of their duties.
and Compliance functions of key service In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities providers: The Boards committees as Directors, the Directors are expected to oversaw the Companys relations with its bring an independent judgment to bear on Due to the structure of the Company, having external auditors, including assessing issues of strategy, performance, investment no employees or executive management, the independence and objectivity, appraisal and standards of conduct.
They are non-executive Directors do not benefit from recommending the auditors reappointment also expected to ensure high standards of having numerous committees reporting to the and approving the auditors fees: financial probity on the part of the Company.
Hence, the Company does not have a reviewed the calculation of the advisory The Directors receive monthly management Nominations Committee or Remuneration and performance fees of the Investment accounts, reports and information which Committee.
The Board as a whole instead Adviser: and enable them to scrutinise the Companys reviews the appointment of new Directors and performance against agreed objectives.
met with the external auditors in the the scale and structure of the Directors absence of the Investment Adviser.
34 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee has reviewed auditor The Company does not have a separate Portfolio management and performance during the year and concluded internal audit function as it is not deemed voting policy that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the appropriate given the structure of the In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys auditors should be continued.
Company, although this is reviewed Companys approach is to seek to add value to periodically by the Audit Committee.
Investment Committee the businesses in which it invests through the Principles and processes extensive experience, resources and contacts As outlined on page 32, there is no specifically of the investment advisory team.
In relation to formed Investment Committee and the Board The Company adopts a set of core values and quoted investments, the Companys policy is as a whole acts as Investment Committee.
controls, which include: to exercise voting rights on matters affecting a planning framework which incorporates a the interests of the Company.
The Company Secretary Board approved medium-term strategy: The Company has appointed Mourant & Co. Internal control formal business and operating risk reviews Secretaries Limited as Company Secretary.
which evaluate the potential financial impact The Board is ultimately responsible for the All Directors have access to the advice and and likelihood of identified risks and possible Groups own system of internal control and the services of the Company Secretary and legal new risk areas: Board and the Audit Committee review the advisers to the Company, who advise the systems effectiveness at least annually.
the setting of control, mitigation and Board, through the Chairman, on governance The internal control system is designed to monitoring procedures and the review of matters.
The Companys Articles of Association manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be and the schedule of matters reserved for the to achieve business objectives and can provide learnt: Board or its duly authorised committees for only reasonable and not absolute assurance decision provide that the appointment and a comprehensive system of financial against material misstatement or loss.
removal of the Company Secretary would be a reporting to the Board, based on an annual The Board has contractually delegated matter for the full Board.
budget with monthly reporting of actual investment advisory and support services to results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key its key service providers and their contractual Relations with shareholders performance measures and regular reobligations encompass the implementation of forecasting: The Board recognises the importance of systems of internal control, including financial, maintaining a purposeful relationship with the regular treasury reports to the Board, which operational and compliance controls and risk Companys shareholders.
The Chairman analyse the funding requirements, track the management.
The Audit Committee and Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders on generation and use of capital and the of the Company receive reports on the control strategy, corporate governance and Directors volume of liquidity and record the level of systems and their operation from its main remuneration as required.
Senior members of compliance with the Companys funding service providers, and are responsible for the investment advisory team also meet with objectives: and reviewing these reports for determining the the Companys principal institutional effectiveness of internal controls.
well defined procedures governing the shareholders to discuss relevant issues as appraisal and approval of investments, Key procedures designed to provide effective they arise.
including detailed investment and internal control for the year under review and The Board receives reports from the divestment approval procedures, up to the date of this Report include: Companys brokers and other advisers on incorporating appropriate levels of authority the Board considers and approves Company shareholder issues and Directors are invited to and regular post investment reviews.
strategy and approves a budget on an attend the Companys presentations to Verification annual basis: analysts and are offered the opportunity to meet shareholders.
an Audit Committee which considers reports on the planning, forecasting and significant control matters and receives controlling of expenditure and the making of The Company also uses its AGM as an relevant reports from key service providers, investments are regularly submitted to the opportunity to communicate with its compliance or internal audit functions.
Board and reviewed in detail: shareholders.
At the Meeting, business presentations are made by the Chairman and the Investment Advisers procedures for senior members of the investment advisory evaluating investments include detailed team.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is appraisals and due diligence: also available to answer shareholders the Investment Adviser and the service questions.
The Notice of AGM for 2008 was providers prepare valuations and dispatched to shareholders not less than 20 management accounts which allow the working days before the meeting.
At that Board to assess the Companys activities and meeting, voting on each resolution was taken review its performance: on a show of hands and the results were made available on the Companys website.
the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services agreements specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Adviser and the service provider.
These agreements set out information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys investments and their performance: and the Investment Advisers compliance and internal audit department continually reviews the Investment Advisers operations.
