Corporate governance The Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Admiral Group Board This report explains key features of the Groups The Board is the principal decision making forum for governance structure, how it applies the principles the Group both providing leadership, either directly or set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate through its committees of Directors, and delegating Governance the Code, and the extent to which authority to the Executive team in a manner that will the Company has complied with the provisions promote the success of the Group and is consistent of the Code.
In addition, over the last 12 months with good coporate governance practice.
The the Company, as a large fi financial institution, has Board is accountable to shareholders for setting considered the conclusions and recommendations and achieving the Groups strategic objectives and made in the corporate governance reviews for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable undertaken by Sir David Walker, the Financial fi financial and operational performance.
The Board is Reporting Council and the FSA.
The Company also responsible to the Financial Services Authority will continue to monitor how it is proposed that FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK the recommendations made in these various regulatory obligations.
reports and reviews should be implemented and will seek to ensure that it is fully compliant The Board has adopted a formal schedule of with any resulting changes to the current corporate matters specifi cally reserved to it which is reviewed governance regime.
on an annual basis this was last carried out on 15December2009.
Matters reserved to the The Board complied with the Code in all respects Board include the approval of: during 2009 except for Code D. 1.1, which requires that the Senior Independent Director should attend The Groups long term objectives and meetings with a range of shareholders.
The corporate strategy Company has a comprehensive programme of Operating and capital budgets, fi financial results, meetings and dialogue with institutional investors, and any signifi cant changes to accounting and the Chairman had individual meetings with the practices or policies majority of the largest 10 such investors.
The views The Groups capital structure of investors expressed through this dialogue are Key business policies in relation to health communicated to the Board as a whole on a regular and safety and environmental matters basis through the investor relations report.
All New Board appointments Directors can, therefore, develop an understanding Dividend policy and proposals for dividend of issues or concerns of major shareholders should payments any be raised.
Feedback from shareholders suggests Major acquisitions, disposals, and other that these arrangements for communication between transactions outside delegated limits the Company and its shareholders continue to be viewed by them as effective.
The Senior Independent The Board met on seven occasions in 2009.
Director is always available to meet with individual The Board also held a strategy day and visited shareholders on request to ensure the Board is its operations in Germany and Spain.
In addition, aware of any shareholder concerns that cannot be the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman resolved through the routine mechanisms for investor met during the year without the Executive Directors communications.
Agendas and papers are circulated to the Board in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by information specifi cally requested by the Directors from time to time.
All Directors are, therefore, able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, risk management, performance, and resources.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is frequent contact between meetings, where necessary, to progress the Groups business.
Admiral Group plc 37 Annual Report 2009 Governance The Directors A fi final detailed report was circulated to, and Highlights All the Directors have access to the advice and discussed by, the Board and a number of 04 Chairmans statement services of the Company Secretary.
He has recommendations for improvement in certain responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures processes were agreed including: 06 Chief Executives statement are followed and for governance matters.
The Company Secretary provides updates to the Board A move for Board meetings to be held over 10 Business review on regulatory and corporate governance issues, new two days to allow the Board to consider more legislation, and Directors duties and obligations.
The effectively the operational and strategic issues 32 Governance 32 The Admiral Group Board appointment and removal of the Company Secretary that affect the Group, given the breadth of 34 Directors report is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
markets in which it now operates 37 Corporate governance The introduction of an annual presentation by 44 Remuneration report Board Effectiveness the Executive team on each of the key markets 49 Independent auditors During the year the Board carried out a detailed in which the Group operates in order to assess report to the members evaluation of itself, the Chairman, and its committees strategic objectives and to make changes of Admiral Group plc in order to identify areas for improvement to ensure to implementation plans where necessary 51 Financial statements that that the Groups strategy is implemented as An increase in the Boards exposure to the next effectively as possible.
The process was led by the level of senior management in order to support Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary the Boards assessment of the Groups succession and consisted of the completion of a comprehensive planning process questionnaire evaluating the Board and committees processes: their effectiveness: and where The Chief Executive, to whom they report, appraises improvements could be considered.
Completion of annually the performance of the individual Executive the questionnaire by each Director was followed by Directors.
The Chairman, taking into account one-to-one discussions between each Director and the views of the other Directors, conducts the the Chairman where the Boards role and structure, performance appraisal of the Chief Executive.
process, relationships, and any emerging issues The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by were discussed.
the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director SID, taking into account The evaluation concluded that the Board and its the views of the Executive Directors.
The SID gave Committees performed well during the year and personal feedback to the Chairman and was able are effective in meeting their objectives and fulfi lling to confi rm that the performance of the Chairman their obligations.
In addition, the Chairman has continues to be effective, and that the Chairman concluded that each director contributes effectively continues to demonstrate commitment to his role.
and demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote suffi cient time to the Group to perform their duties.
The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during 2009 is provided in the table below.
Scheduled Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 7 4 2 4 Alastair Lyons Chairman 7 2 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Offi cer 7 David Stevens Chief Operating Offi cer 7 Kevin Chidwick Finance Director 7 Manfred Aldag 7 Martin Jackson 7 4 4 Keith James 7 4 2 Margaret Johnson 7 4 4 Lucy Kellaway 7 2 John Sussens 7 4 Admiral Group plc 38 Annual Report 2009 The roles of the Chairman and Details of the Chairmans other commitments are Chief Executive included in the Chairmans biography.
The Chairman The Board has approved a statement of the does perform a number of other non-executive division of responsibilities between the Chairman roles outside the Group but the Board is satisfi ed and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is primarily that these are not such as to interfere with the responsible for the leadership and workings of performance of his duties within the Group.
the Board, setting its agenda, and monitoring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is not involved in the John Sussens has been appointed as the Senior day-to-day management of the business.
Save for Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available matters reserved for decision by the Board, the Chief to shareholders if they have concerns that contact Executive, with the support of the other Executive through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Directors, is responsible for proposing the strategy Executive, or Group Finance Director has failed to to be adopted by the Group: the running of the resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
business in accordance with the strategy agreed He is also responsible for leading the the Boards by the Board: and implementing specifi c Board discussion on the Chairmans performance and the decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
The appointment of a new Chairman, when appropriate.
statement of division of responsibilities and matters reserved for decision by the Board were reviewed In accordance with the Companys Articles, which inDecember2009.
provide that a set number of directors retire by rotation and stand for re-election at each AGM, Board balance and independence Martin Jackson, Keith James, Margaret Johnson, The Board currently comprises ten Directors: the and Lucy Kellaway will retire by rotation and seek Chairman who was independent on appointment, re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
three Executive Directors, fi five independent NonExecutive Directors, and one Non-Executive Director, Given that the Chairman has served in his role Manfred Aldag, who is employed by a signifi cant since June 2000 he will now seek re-election by shareholder and is not, therefore, considered shareholders annually.
As the Board was minded independent.
There is no requirement that the to ask him to continue in offi ce notwithstanding signifi cant shareholder has representation on the that he had completed nine years as Chairman, Board and, accordingly, Mr Aldags appointment the Companys leading institutional investors were is subject to the same appointment and removal approached to seek their views.
They confi rmed process as the other Board Directors.
The Board has their support for the Boards expressed intent.
accepted the Nomination Committees assessment of the independence of the fi five Non-Executive The Directors are given access to independent Directors and is not aware of any relationships or professional advice at the Groups expense, circumstances which are likely to affect, or could should they deem it necessary, to carry out their appear to affect, the judgement of any of them.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are currently Professional development appointed for fi xed periods of three years, subject On appointment, Directors take part in a to election by shareholders.
comprehensive induction programme where they receive fi financial and operational information about The initial three-year period may be extended for the Group: details concerning their responsibilities one further three-year period and the Board may and duties: as well as an introduction to the Groups invite the Non-Executive Director to serve for a governance and control environment.
further three-year period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be This induction is supplemented by visits to the inspected at the Companys registered offi ce or can Groups head offi ce in Cardiff, overseas offi ces, and be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
meetings with members of the senior management team and their departments.
Throughout their period In the view of the Board, the independent Nonin offi ce the Directors are regularly updated on the Executive Directors are of suffi cient calibre and Groups business: legal matters concerning their number that their views carry signifi cant weight in the role and duties: the competitive environments in Boards decision making and that they are free from which the Group operates: and any other signifi cant any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or changes affecting the Group and the industry of appear to affect, their independent judgement.
The Board receives presentations from senior managers within the various Group companies on a regular basis.
Admiral Group plc 39 Annual Report 2009 Governance Relations with shareholders or trusteeships held, together with any companies Highlights The Investor Relations team has day-to-day primary in which they hold more than 1% of the issued share 04 Chairmans statement responsibility for managing communications with capital are also disclosed.
These confl ict of interest institutional shareholders through a combination of procedures have operated effectively 06 Chief Executives statement briefi ngs to analysts and institutional shareholders, throughout 2009. both at the half-year and full year results.
A number 10 Business review of analysts and investors visited the Groups Cardiff Board Committees offi ce during the year to meet with the Executive The principal committees of the Board Audit, 32 Governance 32 The Admiral Group Board Directors and senior management in order to get Remuneration, and Nomination all comply fully with 34 Directors report a better understanding of how the Group operates the requirements of the Combined Code.
They are all 37 Corporate governance and how it intends to achieve its strategic and chaired by an independent Director and exclusively 44 Remuneration report operational objectives.
Senior executives from the comprise, or, in the case of the Nomination 49 Independent auditors Groups overseas businesses also visit the UK in Committee where the Chairman of the Board is a report to the members order to present to, and meet with, analysts and member, have a majority of, independent Directors.
of Admiral Group plc investors.
Site visits and individual discussions with The committees are constituted with appropriate 51 Financial statements the Executive Directors are also arranged throughout written terms of reference that are reviewed annually the year with individual shareholders.
Regular and minutes of the committee meetings are dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that the circulated to the Board.
Companys strategy is understood and that any issues are addressed in a constructive way.
The Audit Committee Constitution and membership In addition the Chairman had individual meetings The membership throughout the year was Martin during the year with major shareholders, and Jackson Chairman, Keith James, and Margaret reported to the Board on issues raised with him.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Appointments to the Committee This is supplemented by monthly feedback to the are for a period of up to three years, which may Board on meetings between management and be extended for two further three year periods, investors.
External analysts reports are circulated provided the Director remains independent.
In addition, the Investor Relations Committee meets at least three times per year and team produces a monthly Investor Relations Report has an agenda linked to events in the Companys that is circulated to the Board.
The Report contains fi financial calendar.
an analysis of share price performance: a summary of analyst reports received during the month and The Committee has formal terms of reference which of meetings that have been held with investors and were reviewed by the Committee during the year and analysts: together with details of any signifi cant approved by the Board in February 2010. changes to the shareholders register.
The Board considers that the members of the The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, and Committee have the appropriate competence and Nomination Committees attend the Companys experience to carry out their duties and further Annual General Meeting along with the other considers that Martin Jackson Committee Chairman Directors, and are available to answer shareholders has the appropriate recent and relevant fi financial questions on the activities of the committees experience having held the position of Group Finance they chair.
Director of Friends Provident Plc between 2001 and 2003 and being a fellow of the Institute of Chartered The Group maintains a corporate website Accountants, which imposes requirements www.
co. uk containing a wide for Continuing Professional Development.
The range of information of interest to institutional Committee is kept up to date with changes to and private investors.
Accounting Standards and relevant developments in fi financial reporting, company law, and the various Confl icts of Interest regulatory frameworks through presentations In compliance with the requirements of the from the Groups external auditors, Head of Finance, Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors duties in and Company Secretary.
In addition members relation to confl icts of interest, the Groups Articles are provided with information on seminars and of Association were amended at the 2009 Annual conferences provided by external bodies.
The Terms General Meeting to allow the Board to authorise of Reference of the Audit Committee include all the potential confl icts of interest that may arise and matters suggested by the Code.
to impose such limits as it thinks fi t. Following the aforementioned amendment the Company has put Other individuals such as the Finance Director, in place updated procedures in place to deal with Chief Operating Offi cer, Chief Executive Offi cer, confl icts of interest.
These procedures include each Chairman of the Board, the Heads of Risk, Board member completing, annually, a confl ict Compliance, and Internal Audit and representatives of interest questionnaire that sets out any situation of different parts of the Group may be invited to in which they, or their connected persons have, attend all or part of any meeting as and when or could have, a direct or indirect interest that could appropriate.
The external auditors are invited to confl ict with the interests of the Company.
Any attend meetings of the Committee on a regular basis.
current directorships that they, or their connected persons hold, any advisory roles Admiral Group plc 40 Annual Report 2009 Summary of key activities during 2009 In addition to the evaluation of the Committees During the year the Committee reviewed the following: effectiveness undertaken by the Board, the Committee also carried out a more detailed review The Annual Report and interim results of its own performance.
The key fi nding was that Reports from the Groups internal audit governance of overseas operation and the interaction department on the effectiveness of the Groups with the Committee remit should be kept under risk management procedures, details of key audit continual review as the overseas operations grow.
fi findings, and actions taken by management Effectiveness of the Groups system of internal The Nominations Committee control including within its overseas operations, The membership throughout the year was particularly gaining assurance that the compliance, Keith James Chairman, Lucy Kellaway, and internal control and risk management processes Alastair Lyons.
The Company Secretary acts as were operating effectively for each of the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites overseas entities the Chief Executive to attend meetings when it Reports from the external auditors on their deems appropriate.
proposed audit scope, fees, audit, and auditor independence The Committee has formal terms of reference which Performance of the internal audit department, were reviewed during the year and were approved by with input from the external review referred the Board in February 2010.
The Committee met on to below two occasions during 2009.
The Groups whistleblowing procedures The Committee leads the process for making The Committee reviewed its policy on non-audit appointments to the Board or where the appointee services that, amongst other things, requires that is likely to become a Board member.
The Committee the Committee approve all proposals for expenditure ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent with the Groups auditors of over 30,000 on nonprocedure for the appointment of new Directors audit services.
The policy was last reviewed on to the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, 14December2009.
The Groups auditors, KPMG knowledge and experience of Directors.
The Audit plc, provide some non-audit services, the Committee also ensures plans are in place for majority of which comprise compliance services orderly succession for appointments to the Board, related to various taxation issues within the Group, and reviews the succession plans for other senior and which are not considered by the Committee to management positions.
Responsibility for making compromise their independence as auditors.
The senior management appointments rests with the level of non-audit fees is reviewed at each Committee Chief Executive.
meeting and details are included in the Report and Accounts.
During 2009, the Committee continued to discuss with the Executive team the succession planning The Head of Internal Audit is invited to all Committee across the Group to identify and develop those meetings and provides a range of presentations individuals within the organisation who have the and papers to the Committee, through which the potential and necessary skills to succeed the current Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups members of the Executive team.
Committee members receive discussions a Succession Plan was produced copies of all internal audit reports and are given the by the People Services Manager and presented opportunity to raise questions on the content and to the Committee at the meeting in July 2009. recommendations contained within the reports.
The This Succession Plan considered the senior roles Committee approves the internal audit programme within the Group and identifi ed whether there was at the start of each calendar year and monitors the emergency short term cover in place in the event progress made in achieving the plan.
that the individual left the organisation, whether there was a permanent replacement available within During the year, the Committee received a the organisation, or whether the position would presentation from the Groups actuaries on reserving need to be fi lled externally.
It also identifi ed where methodology.
They also provided market insights and there were individuals who would be capable of identifi ed emerging trends.
moving into particular roles following the gaining of further experience.
The Committee also approves the annual compliance review plan and receives copies of the The Committee also reviewed the current size, resulting reports.
The Head of Compliance, who structure, and composition of the Board, to assess has responsibility for the Compliance and Risk whether further appointments are necessary to management functions, provides the Committee with maintain an appropriate balance of skills and quarterly Compliance and Risk Reports summarising experience within the Board, thereby ensuring that activities in these areas.
it can continue to provide effective leadership of the Company to support its successful operation within The Committee has a policy that provision of external its various marketplaces.
audit services be tendered every fi five years other than in exceptional circumstances.
This was last carried out in 2006 when the decision was made to retain the services of the incumbent external auditors.
At the same time the external audit partner was rotated.
Admiral Group plc 41 Annual Report 2009 Governance Remuneration Committee A key element of the control system is that the Board Highlights The membership throughout the year was meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters 04 Chairmans statement John Sussens Chairman, Martin Jackson, and reserved to it for decision and has put in place an Margaret Johnson.
The Company Secretary acts as organisational structure with clearly defi ned lines of 06 Chief Executives statement Secretary to the Committee.
In order to ensure these responsibilities the Chief Executive and Chairman to attend meetings are properly discharged, the Board has delegated 10 Business review where it deems appropriate.
the task of supervising risk management and internal control to the Risk Management Committee RMC in 32 Governance 32 The Admiral Group Board The Committee has formal terms of reference which the UK and appropriate management committees for 34 Directors report were reviewed during the year and were approved overseas entities.
37 Corporate governance by the Board in February 2010.
The Committee met 44 Remuneration report four times during 2009.
There are several key elements to the risk 49 Independent auditors management environment throughout the Group.
report to the members During the year the Committee carried out the These include the setting of risk management policy of Admiral Group plc following activities: at Board level: enforcement of that policy by the 51 Financial statements Chief Executive: delivery of the policy by the RMC Reviewed the Groups overall remuneration policy via the Groups systems of internal control and risk and strategy management: and the overall assurance provided Recommended for approval individual by the Audit Committee that the systems operate remuneration packages for Executive Directors, effectively.
The Group will continue to review its risk and the Company Secretary management structure in the light of any changes Reviewed the rules and performance measures that are made to the current corporate governance of the Group share schemes and recommended regime following the recommendations of the Walker for approval the grant, award, allocation or issue review and the subsequent guidance from the FSA.
of shares under such schemes The Board recognises that the day-to-day A separate Remuneration report is included within responsibility for implementing these policies must lie the Annual Report.
with the Executive team whose operational decisions must take into account risk and how this can be During the year the Committee purchased controlled effectively.
The Head of Compliance consultancy services from Kepler Associates.
and the Risk Offi cer take responsibility for ensuring In addition, the Company Secretary circulates management are aware of their risk management market survey results as appropriate to enable obligations: providing them with support and advice: the Committee to make judgements on the levels and ensuring that the risk management strategy is of remuneration appropriate for the Directors and properly communicated.
The head of each business to review the remuneration of the Groups senior unit or business area is required, with the support executives.
 also provided of the Risk Manager, to undertake a full assessment advice on the composition and structure of the process to identify and quantify the risks that their Groups share plans during the year.
departments face or pose to the Group and the adequacy of the controls in place to mitigate or Internal control and risk management reduce those risks.
Reports are produced showing The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups the most signifi cant risks identifi ed and the controls system of internal control and, through the Audit in place.
Internal Audit and the Compliance function Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of use the risk registers to plan their programme of these systems.
The systems of internal control over audits to ensure that the controls described are business, operational, fi financial, and compliance risks actually in place.
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can The RMC receives reports setting out key only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance performance and risk indicators and considers against material misstatement or loss.
possible control issues brought to their attention by early warning mechanisms that are embedded The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing within the operational units.
The RMC and the Audit process for identifying, evaluating and managing Committee also receive regular reports from Internal the Groups internal controls: that it has been in place Audit which include recommendations for the year ended 31December2009: and that, up to the date of approval of the Annual Report it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for Directors provided in the Code.
Admiral Group plc 42 Annual Report 2009 for improvement in the control and operational The Committee has formal terms of reference that environment.
The Board undertakes periodic are reviewed on an annual basis.
The Committee structured reviews of the Groups risk map, meets around eight times a year and each focusing on the principal assessed exposures Committee member receives an agenda and papers and the effectiveness of the mitigation strategies in a timely manner allowing the Committee to make adopted.
It receives reports from the Chairman of informed decisions and take appropriate actions.
the Audit Committee as to its activities, together with copies of the minutes of both the RMC and The Committee develops policies to ensure the Audit Committee.
In February 2010 the Board compliance with regulation and ensures that carried out the annual assessment for the 2009 appropriate action is taken by the management team year by considering documentation from the to implement compliant systems and procedures.
Audit Committee, taking account of events since 31December2009, which includes the Internal Internal Audit Audit Annual Report prepared by the Groups The Internal Audit function assists management Head of Internal Audit.
by providing them with timely, independent assurance that the controls established are The Audit Committees ability to provide the operating effectively.
This includes regular reviews appropriate assurance to the Board depends on the of internal control systems and business processes, provision of periodic and independent confi rmation, including compliance systems and procedures, primarily by Internal Audit, that the controls and identifi cation of control weaknesses and established by management are operating effectively recommendations to management on improvements.
and where appropriate provides a high-level challenge to the steps being taken to implement the risk BHBi Consultancy Limited carried out an external management strategy.
assessment of the Groups Internal Audit function in November 2009.
The purpose of the assessment The Board confi rms that there were no signifi cant was to assess Internal Audits conformity with the issues arising during the year under review.
standards set by The Institute of internal Auditors: evaluate Internal Audits effectiveness in carrying The Risk Management Committee out its defi ned duties and responsibilities: and identify The Committees members include the three opportunities to enhance its management and Executive Directors, the Head of Compliance work processes.
The assessment concluded who chairs the meetings, the Risk Offi cer, that the Internal Audit function operates effectively and senior management representatives.
and recommended some process improvements in relation to updating its Charter to recognise the The Committees principal responsibilities are to: IIA Standards & Code of Ethics, as well as proposing undertaking a benchmarking process to review Consider risk management best practice and current resource against peer organisations.
recommend its inclusion within the risk management strategy and policy adopted by the Board Going concern Ensure that the risk management policy approved The fi financial statements have been prepared by the Board is implemented effectively throughout on a going concern basis.
In considering the the UK operations appropriateness of this assumption, the Board Identify and monitor any UK regulatory issues have reviewed the Groups projections for the and ensure that their resolution and action is next 12months and beyond, including cash fl ow appropriately recorded forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
The Assess and monitor reinsurance protection Group has no debt.
Advising management committees for the Groups overseas operations As a result of this review the Directors have satisfi ed themselves that it is appropriate to prepare the fi financial statements on a going concern basis.
Admiral Group plc 43 Annual Report 2009
