42 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Effective governance lies at the core of BG Groups ability to operate successfully in the global business environment.
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman One of the outcomes of the global banking A central proposition of the Combined The Combined Code, which as part of the crisis of 2008 was a sharp increase in Code is that boards should provide FRCs ongoing review is to be renamed the public scrutiny of the role of boards in entrepreneurial leadership within a UK Corporate Governance Code, operates assessing and managing risk and reviewing framework of controls designed to assess on a comply or explain basis.
BG Group consider that the Company complied with supports that proposition.
Effective the provisions set out in Section 1 of the In 2009, both the Walker Review and the governance lies at the core of the Groups Combined Code throughout the year ended Financial Reporting Council FRC review ability to operate successfully in the global 31 December 2009. of the Combined Code on Corporate business environment.
The main principles Governance the Combined Code sought The following pages are intended to give of the Combined Code form the key to assess the extent to which existing shareholders a clear and comprehensive components of the Groups approach governance models provide shareholders picture of the Groups governance to corporate governance.
and directors with the appropriate oversight arrangements by reference to the principles of management activities.
in the Combined Code as it currently applies.
Compliance with the Combined Code Governance Framework As a UK-listed company, BG Group is required to state whether it has complied with the provisions in Section 1 of the Combined Code BG GROUP SHAREHOLDERS 2008 throughout the year and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
BG Group is also required to explain how it has applied the principles in Section 1 of the Combined Code which are set out below.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS A Directors The Board Chairman and Chief Executive Board balance and independence Appointments to the Board Organisation Internal Control Independent Re-election to the Board and Structure Framework Assurance Information and professional development Performance evaluation B Remuneration The level and make-up of remuneration Procedure C Accountability and audit Financial reporting Internal control Audit Committee and auditors D Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders Further details of the Groups Governance Framework can be found on Constructive use of the annual general meeting pages 46 to 49. www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 43 A DIRECTORS of supply and demand drivers in all the The Non-Executive Directors have a wealth of The Board Groups markets.
experience gained from a variety of private The Board is responsible to BG Groups sector and government backgrounds.
They are Chairman and Chief Executive shareholders for creating and delivering key to the formulation and development of the The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive sustainable shareholder value through the Groups strategy, to reviewing and monitoring are separate and their responsibilities are management of the Groups businesses within the performance of management, the integrity clearly established, set out in writing and the Governance Framework.
The Boards role is of financial information, and internal control agreed by the Board.
The descriptions of the to set the Groups strategy, and to ensure that and risk management frameworks.
roles and responsibilities of the Chairman necessary resources are available, and that and Chief Executive are also available on Baroness Hogg was nominated by the Board appropriate controls, values and standards BG Groups website.
The Chairman, as Senior Independent Director with effect are in place, to deliver it.
As well as oversight Sir Robert Wilson, is responsible for the from 1 January 2009.
Her responsibilities responsibility for financial performance, workings and leadership of the Board and include meeting major shareholders as an internal controls and risk management of the for the balance of its membership.
The Chief alternative point of contact to the Chairman, Group, the Board has a formal schedule of Executive, Frank Chapman, is responsible for Chief Executive or Chief Financial officer.
matters specically reserved to it for decision leading and managing the business within The role of the Senior Independent Director which is set out in the table below.
the authorities delegated by the Board.
is clearly established, set out in writing and Directors are expected, wherever possible, agreed by the Board.
The description of the Board balance and independence to attend all Board meetings, relevant role is published on BG Groups website.
The The Board is made up of a Non-Executive Committee meetings and the annual general Senior Independent Director is expected to Chairman, three Executive Directors including meeting.
The Board has regular scheduled commit at least three to four days per year to the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial meetings throughout the year and holds the role, and signicantly more in exceptional officer and eight independent Non-Executive additional meetings as and when necessary.
This is in addition to the Directors.
The Board considers there is an During 2009, the Board met 11 times.
A table expected time commitment in her capacity appropriate balance between Executive and detailing the Directors attendance at each of as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Non-Executive Directors.
This balance is the Companys Board and Committee meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
further enhanced by the varying lengths of during 2009 is set out on page 45.
Within the service of the Non-Executive Directors, which The Board considers all of its Non-Executive scheduled meeting programme, the Chairman is depicted in the chart below.
A list of the Directors to be independent and free of any met with the Non-Executive Directors without individual Directors, their biographies and business relationship or other circumstance the Executive Directors being present.
details of their committee membership is which could materially interfere with the In addition to those scheduled meetings, provided on pages 38 and 39. exercise of independent and objective the Board focuses on the Groups strategy judgement.
To assist in determining at an annual two day planning conference.
independence, the Board undertakes an The conference, held in June 2009, included Length of service: Non-Executive Directors annual review of the independence of its a detailed portfolio review, in depth Non-Executive Directors in accordance with presentations on two key regions, Australia the criteria set out in the Combined Code.
and Brazil, and updates on exploration and Non-Executive Directors are appointed for human resources.
In light of the dramatic changes in the economic environment in an initial three-year term.
Subsequent the second half of 2008 and through 2009, re-appointment is subject to rigorous review by the Nominations Committee.
All Directors the Board took a fundamental look at the 0-3 years strategic risks facing the business and spent are subject to re-election by shareholders at 4-6 years time reviewing and challenging assumptions least every three years.
In accordance with the embedded within the Groups strategy.
The Combined Code, the Board also has a policy 9 years Board also undertook a thorough review requiring Non-Executive Directors who have Matters reserved to the Board 1 Approval of the Group vision, values and 8 Approval of all circulars, listing particulars, 12 Approval of the division of responsibilities overall Governance Framework.
resolutions and corresponding between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
13 Establishing Committees of the Board, 2 Approval of the Companys Annual Report 9 Approval of changes in the capital structure approving their terms of reference and Accounts, Remuneration report and of the Company or its status as a plc and, in including membership and financial Quarterly Financial Statements.
particular, the issue or allotment of shares authority, reviewing their activities 3 Approval of any interim dividend and in the Company otherwise than pursuant to and, where appropriate, ratifying recommendation of the final dividend.
4 Approval of Group financial policy.
10 Approval of material changes to the 14 Recommendation to shareholders for the Companys pension schemes rules, any appointment, re-appointment or removal 5 Approval of material capital projects, change of Trustee, or material changes to of the auditors.
investments, acquisitions and disposals funding and management arrangements.
15 Approval of this schedule of matters 11 Appointment, re-appointment and removal reserved to the Board.
6 Approval of the Companys long-term of the Chairman and Directors and the finance plan and annual capital and recommendation to shareholders of their revenue budget.
election or re-election under the Articles of 7 Approval of any significant change in Association: the appointment and removal Group accounting policies or practices.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 44 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance continued served on the Board for nine years or more from Board visit to Americas and Global LNG region the date of their first election by shareholders to stand for annual re-election by shareholders.
By the time of the 2010 AGM, two Non-Executive In October 2009, the Board of Directors hydraulic fracturing and saw how these visited BG Groups business in the USA.
advances had helped turn shale gas into Directors, Peter Backhouse and Lord Sharman, will have served on the Board for more than While in Houston, meetings of the Board, a commercial proposition.
By talking nine years from the date of their first election.
Audit Committee and Sustainability with employees, the Directors gained Accordingly, both Peter Backhouse and Committee were held.
All meetings focused first-hand experience of a key aspect of Lord Sharman are standing for re-election at in detail on issues specic to the Americas the Groups portfolio.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Highlights of the trip included a visit to Board believes that Peter Backhouse and the US Energy Marketing operation in Houston.
Board members were shown Lord Sharman have retained independence of character and judgement and neither have how the Group manages the marketing formed associations with the Company that of US gas and power.
This was followed might compromise their ability to exercise by a meeting and an open discussion with independent judgement.
over 400 employees on Group strategy.
The Board believes that the continuing The visit concluded with several Board appointment of both Directors provides a members visiting the Groups joint venture strong balance of experience amongst the with EXCO Resources Inc. and a new shale play at Shreveport, Louisiana where they Non-Executive Directors.
The chart on page 43 illustrates the varying lengths of term served learnt about new technological advances by the Non-Executive Directors, highlighting a such as horizontal drilling and multi-stage Shale gas drilling, USA strong balance of tenure and the continuity provided by those Directors with six years or more service.
Thereafter, in accordance with the Dr John Hood and Sir David Manning visited Combined Code and the Companys Articles the Groups Australian business and attended At the time of his original appointment, of Association, they are subject to re-election the launch of the Queensland Gas Company on 1 January 2004, the Chairman was every three years.
QGC partnership with the University of considered independent by the Board.
Queensland, Centre for Socially Responsible However, in accordance with the Combined Based on these criteria, the Nominations Mining.
Further details on this visit can be Code, the ongoing test of independence for Committee has made recommendations found in the online Sustainability Report at the Chairman is not appropriate.
to the Board in respect of the election of www.
com sustainability Mark Seligman and the re-election of The Board has taken into consideration the Peter Backhouse, Lord Sharman and The Company Secretary, Keith Hubber, is other commitments of its Non-Executive Philippe Varin at the 2010 AGM.
The Board responsible for advising the Board, through Directors and is satisfied that these do has considered and endorsed these the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The not conict with their duties and time recommendations and has concluded that Directors have full access to the advice and commitments as Directors of the Company.
the performance of these Directors is services of the Company Secretary, who is Appointments to the Board also responsible to the Board for ensuring effective and that they have demonstrated, The Board has developed a formal, rigorous and continue to demonstrate, commitment that correct Board procedures are followed, and transparent procedure for the selection to their roles.
Biographical details for these ensuring effective communication ows and recruitment of directors.
Following a within the Board and its Committees, Directors can be found on pages 38 and 39. review of the balance of skills, knowledge and and between senior management and Information and professional development experience on the Board, the Nominations Non-Executive Directors, and facilitating All Directors appointed to the Board receive Committee determines the selection criteria induction and assisting with the professional a full induction brieng tailored to their for prospective candidates.
External selection development of Directors.
Guidelines are in individual needs, taking into account their consultants are retained to identify those with place concerning the content, timeliness and qualications and experience.
On appointment, the relevant skills, background and experience.
presentation of Board and Committee papers Mark Seligman met with the Company The Nominations Committee reviews the from management to ensure that the Board Secretary to agree his induction programme proles of the candidates and interviews are is properly briefed.
which included meetings with members of the carried out.
The Committee then makes its The Company Secretary acts as Secretary Group Executive and other senior managers to recommendations to the Board for approval.
to the Board and each of its Committees gain a greater understanding of their respective Mark Seligman was appointed to the Board other than the Audit Committee and to roles and the Groups current operations.
in December 2009 in accordance with this the Group Executive Committee GEC.
The Nominations Committee believes Ongoing professional development is provided appointment or removal of the Company to Directors.
In 2009, the Board received that Marks significant international investment Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
training on well engineering, maintenance banking experience will further enhance the Directors may obtain independent professional and production.
They also attended teach-ins knowledge, skills and experience of the Board.
advice at the Companys expense if they on shale gas and coal seam gas operations.
Martin Houston was appointed to the Board believe it may be required in furtherance of as an Executive Director in February 2009 and their duties.
Board offsite visits are considered key to was first elected by shareholders at the 2009 ensuring that Directors have an in-depth Performance evaluation annual general meeting.
understanding of the evolving business The Board considers that the periodic strategy and the day to day issues that affect Re-election to the Board involvement of an external facilitator in the All Directors are subject to election by the Group.
Details of a visit made by the Board annual Board evaluation process assists with to the BG Group ofce in Houston during shareholders at the first annual general the rigorous review of the Boards performance meeting following their appointment by 2009 are set out above.
In November 2009, by bringing an independent perspective to the www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 45 evaluation.
Accordingly, during 2009, the C ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Constructive use of the AGM Board worked with Dr Tracy Long at Boardroom A statement of the Directors responsibilities The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders Review, an independent third party, to conduct for reporting the Financial Statements, to vote on certain aspects of BG Groups the annual review of the performance and including a statement regarding the status business.
It is also an opportunity for those effectiveness of the Board.
of the Company as a going concern, is set shareholders who are able to attend to ask out on page 64. questions of the Board of Directors, including The review by Dr Long was designed to assess the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, the quality of the Boards decision making Statements concerning BG Groups Internal Sustainability and Nominations Committees, and debate, its overall contribution to, and Control Framework, the appointment of and the Company Secretary.
The Notice of impact on, the long-term health and success external auditors and allocation of non-audit AGM, which includes full details of this of the Company and its preparation for fees can be found in the Audit Committee and years AGM, is set out on pages 134 to 140. future challenges.
auditors section of this report on page 49. Review process D RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Each Board member completed a questionnaire Dialogue with institutional shareholders prior to attending a detailed, condential, The Board recognises the importance of one-to-one interview, to provide their views maintaining an ongoing relationship with the on the effectiveness of the Board.
The findings Companys shareholders based on frequent of the review were discussed with all the dialogue.
Regular meetings with institutional Directors and presented at a meeting of the shareholders are held both in the UK and Board in February 2010. internationally by the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer and other Conclusion members of senior management and, where The process focused on a number of key appropriate, the Chairman.
This ensures that areas including strategy, succession planning, the investor community receives a balanced Board culture, size and composition, risk and comprehensive view of the Groups management and the relationship between performance and the issues it faces.
The Board the Board and management.
The results of regularly monitors the views of shareholders the reviews were then considered by the and considers reports from its investor relations Chairman and subsequently discussed by the advisers concerning institutional shareholder Board as a whole.
Matters raised in the course feedback.
The Chairman and Non-Executive of the evaluation will form part of the Boards Directors including the Senior Independent agenda for 2010.
Director are also available to meet institutional shareholders and to discuss topical issues.
The Directors have concluded that, following this review, the Board and its Committees The Company, through its Investor Relations operate effectively and also consider that team, responds to a variety of enquiries from each Director is contributing effectively and shareholders and an email communication demonstrates commitment to their role.
facility is available on the Groups website for this purpose.
In November 2009, the Investor B REMUNERATION Details on the level and make-up of the Relations team also met with the UK Directors remuneration and the work of Shareholders Association to discuss the Groups strategy and matters of specic the Remuneration Committee, as required by the Combined Code and the Directors interest to retail shareholders.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 50 to 61.
Attendance at 2009 Board and Committee meetings Group Chairmans Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Finance Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 11 9 64 644 14 Sir Robert Wilson 11 9 4 644 Frank Chapman 11 8 6 4 14 Ashley Almanza 11 9 4 14 Martin Houston 11 14 Peter Backhouse 11 6 6 Jrgen Dormann 9 3 4 Baroness Hogg 11 6 4 4 Dr John Hood 9 5 6 Sir David Manning 11 6 Lord Sharman 9 6 4 Philippe Varin 9 5 3 Martin Houston joined the Board on 3 February 2009.
Mark Seligman joined the Board on 3 December 2009 and attended his first Board meeting on 2 February 2010.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 46 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance continued BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS CHAIRMANS FINANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RESERVES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Exploration & Investment Governance Group Performance Energy Trading & Appraisal Committee Committee Committee Committee Credit Risk Committee Governance Framework: Organisation and Structure The Groups organisation and structure is Company Secretary upon request.
Minutes Committees, members of the Group Executive, established and overseen by the Board and is of the meetings of Board Committees are or to other senior management.
designed to allow for effective and efficient circulated to all Directors.
Responsibility for formulating, communicating decision making and to meet corporate During 2009, a full review of the structure and managing delivery of the Groups Health, governance standards.
A diagram illustrating of the Group Executive Committee GEC Safety, Security and Environment HSSE the BG Group Board Committee structure is set strategy has been retained by the GEC and and its sub-committees was undertaken.
The Board has delegated authority management of day-to-day HSSE matters has This review was designed to ensure that the to its Committees on specic matters, which been transferred to individual members of the Committees remained fully aligned with the are set out in written terms of reference.
Following the reorganisation, design and accountabilities of BG Group membership of each of the Board Committees the HSSE Committee was disbanded.
Further functions and that the Committees would is detailed below and the terms of reference details of the GEC and its sub-committees continue to provide an effective and efficient for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations can be found on page 47. decision-making structure.
Following this Committees are reviewed annually by the Board and published on BG Groups website, review, the Portfolio Development Committee together with the terms of reference for the and the People and Organisation Committee were disbanded.
The responsibilities of these other Board Committees.
Copies of these terms of reference are also available from the Committees have been transferred to other www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 47 The Committee is responsible for overseeing Board Committees Executive Committees the Groups financial reporting process, the Sustainability Committee Group Executive Committee GEC appointment, remuneration and independence of the Groups external auditors and monitoring Dr John Hood The members of the GEC are set out on pages the risk management processes of the Group.
The Committee has primary authority Full details are set out on page 49. for the day-to-day management of the Groups The members of the Sustainability Committee operations, within agreed limits set by the Reserves Committee are Dr John Hood, Sir Robert Wilson, Board.
The GEC is accountable for monitoring Frank Chapman, Peter Backhouse, The Reserves Committee was established by strategic risk, operational management of Jrgen Dormann and Sir David Manning.
the Audit Committee and is chaired by the the Group, and HSSE strategy.
The GEC has Martin Houston and Mark Seligman joined Executive Vice President & Managing Director, delegated its authority to a series of five the Committee on 2 February 2010.
BG Advance and includes technical, financial sub-committees which focus on particular and legal specialists.
The Committee reviews aspects of the Groups business.
Those The purpose of the Committee is to provide the reserves process and approves any sub-committees are: oversight of the implementation of BG Groups amendments to the reserves policy, process Business Principles and the Companys Exploration & Appraisal Committee EAC or guidelines.
It regularly reviews and statement of core values and behaviours.
challenges the Groups reserves and resources The EAC is chaired by the Chief Executive The Committees main areas of focus are estimates and, on an annual basis, reports to and its other members are drawn from senior safety and asset integrity, social performance the Audit Committee on the reserves process.
management specialising in exploration and including community relations and social The Reserves Committee is supported by the appraisal.
The main purpose of the Committee investment, the environment and ethical Corporate Reserves Group which provides an is to formulate the Groups exploration and conduct.
The Committee also maintains an independent review on all reserves bookings appraisal strategy, to plan and to set objectives overview of policies relating to occupational and revisions proposed by Regions and Assets.
and priorities to deliver that strategy.
In health and physical and personnel security.
addition, the Committee approves funding for Meetings are normally attended by the Remuneration Committee exploration and appraisal.
Executive Vice President, Policy and Baroness Hogg Corporate Affairs.
Investment Committee IC Remuneration Committee Chairman During 2009, the Committee undertook a The IC is chaired by the Chief Financial officer The members of the Remuneration Committee review of the management of the Groups and its other members are drawn from the are Baroness Hogg, Jrgen Dormann, sustainability agenda which focused in GEC.
The main purpose of the Committee is Philippe Varin and Sir Robert Wilson.
The particular on ethical conduct, safety and to approve merger, acquisition and disposal Committee is responsible for setting, asset integrity, social performance and the transactions and to approve other investment reviewing and recommending to the Board environment.
The Committee also conducted decisions, except exploration, appraisal and for approval BG Groups overall remuneration a thorough review of the approach being business development transactions.
Full details are set out in taken by QGC to achieve support from the Remuneration report on pages 50 to 61.
Governance Committee GC government and other stakeholders and to ensure the Group makes an effective Nominations Committee The GC is chaired by the Company Secretary contribution to sustainable social, economic and other members are drawn from the GEC Sir Robert Wilson and environmental development in and senior management.
The main purpose of Nominations Committee Chairman Queensland, Australia.
the Committee is to oversee the effectiveness of BG Groups governance, business risk and The members of the Nominations Committee Audit Committee assurance processes, to approve Group are Sir Robert Wilson, Baroness Hogg and Lord Sharman Standards mandatory controls, and to ensure Lord Sharman.
Meetings are normally Audit Committee Chairman that there is an effective process for identifying, attended by the Chief Executive.
The role of assessing and managing risk.
the Committee is to review the structure The members of the Audit Committee and composition of the Board, to identify are Lord Sharman, Peter Backhouse, Group Performance Committee GPC candidates to ll Board vacancies, and to make Baroness Hogg, Dr John Hood and recommendations regarding their election The GPC is chaired by the Executive Vice Philippe Varin.
Mark Seligman joined the President & Managing Director, BG Advance and subsequent re-election by shareholders.
The Secretary and its other members are drawn from the to the Committee is Alan McCulloch, Deputy As noted on page 44, in 2009, the Committee GEC.
The main purpose of the Committee is to Company Secretary.
recommended to the Board the appointments review performance in post-sanction projects of Martin Houston and Mark Seligman.
and assets and to drive long-term performance.
All members of the Committee are deemed to be independent and the Committee has Chairmans Committee Energy Trading & Credit Risk Committee ETCRC concluded that its membership meets the The members of the Chairmans Committee The ETCRC is chaired by the Head of Tax and requirements of the Combined Code.
are Sir Robert Wilson, Frank Chapman and Treasury and its other members are drawn The Board has determined that Lord Sharman, Ashley Almanza.
The role of the Chairmans from senior management specialising in a chartered accountant, has recent and Committee is to advise and assist the commodity trading, credit and financial risk.
relevant financial experience as required by Chairman in the preparation for Board The main purpose of the Committee is to the Combined Code.
The Committee also acts on behalf approve the Group-level risk management of the Board between scheduled meetings, principles and policies that provide the The meetings of the Committee are also within clearly dened delegated authority.
framework for effective risk management normally attended by the Chairman, the of energy trading activities.
In addition, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Financial Finance Committee Committee provides assurance to the GEC Controller, the Head of Group Audit and The members of the Finance Committee are that there is an effective framework for the representatives of the external auditors.
Sir Robert Wilson Committee Chairman, management of price and credit risks In addition, the Committee meets privately Frank Chapman and Ashley Almanza.
The associated with oil, gas and LNG trading, with the internal and external auditors at Committee is responsible for finance and commodity price hedging and credit risks least twice each year.
outside of the trading business.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 48 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance continued Governance Framework: Internal Control Framework BG Groups Internal Control Framework ICF performance.
These processes are supported by of Assurance LoA to the Chief Executive defines the way in which the Group operates.
assurance reviews including self-certication in relation to the control environment in It comprises the Groups Business Principles by management and ongoing independent their areas of responsibility.
These LoAs and mandatory policies, processes and evaluation by Group Audit.
are supported by the results of the standards.
Within these, a series of core Governance Self Assessment GSA process The Boards role is undertaken in accordance controls has been identied which contribute which requires management level reporting with the guidance set out in the Combined to the identication or mitigation of one or to the GEC and the Company Secretary to Code and as set out in the Committee of more Group risks.
assess the effectiveness of the core controls Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway within their areas of responsibilities and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Commission COSO framework, adopted by to report any significant deficiencies or Groups system of internal controls and it the Audit Committee as best practice.
oversees the review, compliance and assurance COSO framework provides reasonable, rather processes that have been designed to ensure than absolute, assurance against material loss The Governance Committee reviews the there is an effective control environment.
or misstatement and is designed to manage, LoAs and the results of the GSA process and rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to assesses the effectiveness of the disclosure In addition, the Group has in place a series achieve business objectives.
controls and procedures which have been of policies, practices and controls in relation established to ensure the timely and accurate to the financial reporting and consolidation The Board has established processes designed release of information required to be disclosed processes which are designed to ensure the to allow it to assess the effectiveness of the to the market.
The Committee reports on identication and communication of changes internal control environment within the these matters to the Audit Committee.
in accounting standards, and reconciliation Group.
Each year, every member of the GEC of core financial systems and internal and the Company Secretary provide Letters Governance Framework: Independent Assurance A key element of BG Groups Governance In particular, Group Audit: The independent external auditors report to framework is independent assurance, which shareholders and their audit opinion on the provides an independent assessment of is provided primarily by Group Audit, applicable section of the Financial Statements the Groups system of risk management independent external auditors and other are set out on page 65. and internal control: external advisers.
The external reserves consultant, DeGolyer assists management by carrying out Group Audit provides assurance to the Board, & MacNaughton, provides independent independent appraisals of the effectiveness Audit Committee, GEC and management assurance on reserves, using its own of the internal control environment that effective and efficient internal control estimation methodology, through a rolling and making recommendations for processes are in place to identify and manage programme of reviews which covers a improvement: and business risk across the Group.
proportion of the reserves portfolio each year.
supports development of the Groups governance and business risk management policies.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 49 annually evaluates the design and re-appointed as the Companys auditors for effectiveness of the processes established to a further year.
The Board accepted this Audit Committee estimate, aggregate and report the Groups recommendation and has proposed a resolution and auditors various categories of oil and gas reserves.
to shareholders set out on page 136 for the re-appointment of .
Activities during the year Integrity of Financial Statements The Committee also determined the and disclosures remuneration of the auditors in accordance The Audit Committee assists the Board in with the authority given to it by shareholders.
assuring the integrity of Financial Statements The audit engagement partner rotates at least and disclosures.
It reviewed the quarterly every five years and all other partners and financial results announcements and reported senior management are required to rotate the outcome of its reviews and made at least every seven years in accordance with recommendations to the Board based on the BG Group Policy on the Engagement of these reviews.
Review of Houston operations Non-audit fees Lord Sharman During the visit to the USA in October, the The Audit Committee believes that certain nonChairman of the Audit Committee audit work is best undertaken by the external Audit Committee reviewed the Houston-based operations, governance structure, internal auditors.
The Committee regularly reviews the nature of non-audit work performed by the controls, key business risks, and risk Role of the Committee auditors and the volume of that work.
The management and assurance processes.
The The Audit Committee assists the Board in Committee members toured the trading Committee receives a quarterly report setting fullling its responsibilities in respect of: out the non-audit services provided by the operations oor where they had the external auditors and the fees charged.
An opportunity to observe trading operations overseeing the Groups financial reporting analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and nonand back-ofce systems with employees process, including the internal control audit services provided by  and received presentations focusing on structure and procedures for financial for the past two years is disclosed in note 3, operations and systems in relation to supply reporting and monitoring the integrity page 82. and optimisation and trading activities.
and appropriateness of the Groups Further details of the visit by the Board and Financial Statements: The allocation of non-audit work is considered Audit Committee to Houston can be found in accordance with the BG Group Policy on the the manner in which the Groups on page 44.
The policy management ensures and monitors the sets out a pre-approved framework of services, Internal controls adequacy of financial, operational and where the auditors can apply their existing The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness compliance internal controls and business in-depth business knowledge and skill to bring of the Groups system of internal controls.
The risk management processes designed to both quality and efficiency benets for the results of this review are set out below.
manage significant risk exposures: Company.
Such pre-approved work is strictly The Committee reviewed this Report with limited and is balanced by a list of work that is the appointment, remuneration, management, the external auditors and specically prohibited from being undertaken independence and performance of Group Audit together with other reports from by auditors, which includes, among other the Groups external auditors: and management in relation to internal control matters, book keeping, financial information the independence and performance and assurance, risk management, fraud risk systems design and implementation, of Group Audit.
management and whistleblowing and, based management functions and services prohibited on its review, has reported to the Board on the through local or international regulation.
In Specically, the Audit Committee: effectiveness of BG Groups internal controls particular, key focus is given to ensuring that regularly reviews the external and internal in 2009. the engagement of such services does not: audit work plans: Taking into account the processes that have create a mutuality of interest: oversees and reviews the procedures for been designed and implemented for 2009, place the auditors in a position to audit the receipt, retention and treatment of the Board, with the advice of the Committee, their own work: complaints relating to financial matters, has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal accounting controls and auditing, internal control, for the period from 1 January result in the auditors acting as a manager and the Groups whistleblowing policy 2009 to the date of this Report, and is satisfied or employee: and named Speak Up : that the Group has in place an effective system put the auditors in the role of advocate for of internal controls.
requests, receives and reviews reports from BG Group.
management on actions taken to address External auditors risk areas identied by management and or Authority has been delegated to the Audit The Audit Committee manages the relationship the internal audit process: Committee Chairman, or in his absence, any with , the Groups other member of the Committee to approve any external auditors, on behalf of the Board.
The reviews with management, and external work that does not fall into the pre-approved Committee monitors the external auditors and internal auditors, the significant risk framework and is not specically prohibited in independence and objectivity and on an annual exposures and the processes established to accordance with the Policy on the Engagement identify, monitor, control and report them: basis carries out an assessment of the auditors, of External Auditors.
considering qualications, expertise, resources annually reviews a control process or the and regulatory requirements, together with Having undertaken a review of the non-audit control environment within a specic asset: the effectiveness of the audit process.
related services provided during the year, the Following this assessment, the Committee annually evaluates, on behalf of the Board, Committee is satisfied that these services makes a recommendation to the Board on the did not prejudice the external auditors the design and effectiveness of the internal control structure, the Groups financial re-appointment of the external auditors by independence.
The Committee recommended reporting procedures and the Groups disclosure controls and procedures: and to the Board that  be BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
