32 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained by Alliance Trust.
The Board confirms that the principles of the management of the business, they play an Combined Code on Corporate Governance important part in constructively challenging issued in June 2006 have been complied with management and helping to develop strategy for the full year: this report describes how we and monitor its delivery using the experience have applied these in practice.
The Board has they have gained in other businesses.
This also considered the principles of the AIC Code year, the role of the Non-Executive Directors of Corporate Governance AIC Code.
The included the consideration of a replacement AIC Code addresses all of the principles set out for Alan Harden part way through the year, in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as leading to the decision to appoint Katherine setting out additional principles on issues that are Garrett-Cox to the role, and the consideration of specific relevance to investment companies of the conclusions of the business review such as Alliance Trust.
The Company has she undertook on assuming the role of Chief complied with the principles of the AIC Code.
The Company is an investment company and In addition to the Directors, various members of seeks annual approval from HM Revenue and senior management may attend board meetings Customs to maintain its status as an investment and present to the Directors on activities in trust.
The last such approval was granted in their area or in respect of particular concerns respect of financial year ending 31 January 2008. or interests of the Directors.
Presentations by investment managers are a regular feature of The Board board meetings.
The Board sets the Companys objectives, The Board reserves certain decisions to itself and approves its business plans, and provides a delegates others to committees or the Executive framework of prudent controls to enable risk Directors and management as explained in within the business to be managed.
It provides more detail on pages 34 to 36.
The areas the leadership to management and reviews the Board has reserved to itself include: performance of the business.
approval of investment strategy and policy The Board comprises the Chairman, four decisions on new subsidiary businesses, joint independent Non-Executive Directors, and ventures and other arrangements two Executive Directors.
In the course of the year the Board composition changed with the approval of treasury policies, banking resignation of Janet Pope on 5 March 2008, counterparties and counterparty exposure Gordon McQueen on 31 March 2008 and Alan limits Harden on 29 August 2008.
John Hylands was approval of Group borrowing limits and the appointed on 22 February 2008.
A summary of maximum amounts and nature of new bank the experience of the Directors can be found on borrowing facilities pages 30 and 31. major contracts Board Composition approval of the asset classes in which any All Directors are responsible for the decisions Group company may invest taken by the Board.
Although the majority approval of the derivative instruments which of the Board are independent NonExecutive any Group company may use Directors who take no part in the day to day report front amends.
indd 32 20 4 09 12:51:44 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 33 approval of material changes to gearing and The Chairman the percentage mix of asset allocation by class The Chairman is Lesley Knox and her role is and geography clearly established and set out in writing to major changes in employment and ensure that her responsibilities are distinguished remuneration structures from those of the Chief Executive.
political and charitable donations Senior Independent Director any material litigation or civil proceedings This position is held by Christopher Masters.
Through the matters reserved to the Board, The Senior Independent Director is available for the powers of individual Directors are restricted shareholders in the event that it is inappropriate to the extent necessary to ensure good to raise matters with the Chief Executive governance.
or Chairman and to lead the review of the Chairmans performance with the other NonEach year, the Board agrees an annual Board Executive Directors.
Meeting programme to ensure that all aspects of the performance of the Company and its Non-Executive Directors management are reviewed.
The following The Company is committed to maintaining a appear as regular Board items: strong representation of independent nonInvestment Report executives on the Board and this is demonstrated Asset Allocation by the make up of the Board.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be Economic Outlook independent.
The Chairman and a Non-Executive Portfolio Performance Director also sit on the Board of Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Asset Management.
Trading volume, discount and share buybacks In addition to attendance at Board and Financial Performance Committee meetings the Non-Executive Directors Internal Audit are available to management throughout the year.
They also met as a group on two occasions Compliance and Risk during the year.
These meetings offer the NonInvestor Relations Executive Directors the opportunity to discuss management succession and other business or concerns that they have in the absence of Executive Directors.
In the course of the year the Non-Executive Directors also met without the Chairman present to review her performance.
Executive Directors During the year two Executive Directors, Janet Pope and Alan Harden, left the Company.
The two departing directors had defined roles and responsibilities.
Janet Pope was responsible for business strategy and the performance of Alliance Trust Savings.
Upon Janet Popes departure Alan Harden took on the additional responsibilities of managing Alliance Trust Savings.
Alan Harden was Chief Executive with overall responsibility for delivering the objectives of the Board.
Upon his departure Katherine Garrett-Cox assumed the role of Chief Executive, in addition to her ongoing role report front amends.
indd 33 20 4 09 12:51:44 34 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance as Chief Investment Officer, and an interim Board and Committee Attendance internal appointment was made to the role of The Board held nine scheduled meetings during managing director of Alliance Trust Savings the year.
Details of attendance are set out below.
while an external candidate was sought.
This position was filled on a permanent basis in Audit Committee February 2009.
The members are: The Executive Directors also serve on the Boards John Hylands from 22 February 2008, of subsidiary companies in the Group in either Chairman from 1 April 2008. an executive or non-executive capacity.
Hugh Bolland Gordon McQueen Chairman until 31 March 2008 Company Secretary Christopher Masters The Company Secretary, Donald McPherson, is responsible for advising the board on The Board are satisfied that both Gordon matters of corporate governance and legal McQueen and John Hylands have recent and compliance.
The Directors always have access relevant financial experience.
to the Company Secretary for information and The work of the Committee during the year assistance as required.
is explained in the Accountability and Audit section of the report on page 39.
Board Committees The Board have set up various committees to Remuneration Committee assist decision making and internal governance.
The members are: The three committees reporting to the Board are: Christopher Masters Chairman Audit Committee Hugh Bolland Nomination Committee John Hylands from 22 February 2008 Gordon McQueen until 31 March 2008 Remuneration Committee Clare Sheikh Minutes of each of these committees are circulated to all of the Directors.
Copies of the The role of this Committee is to determine the Terms of Reference of the Committees will be remuneration of the Executive Directors and available at the Annual General Meeting and Chairman and to monitor and recommend the are available on the Company website www.
level and structure of remuneration for other alliancetrust.
The Committee have used the same consultants, the Hay Group, since October 2006.
The Hay Group is not engaged to undertake any other work on behalf of the BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Lesley Knox 9 9 - - - - 3 3 Hugh Bolland 9 9 5 5 6 6 3 3 David Deards 9 9 - - - - - - Katherine Garrett-Cox 9 9 - - - - 1 1 Alan Harden 6 6 - - - - 1 1 John Hylands 9 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 Gordon McQueen 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 Christopher Masters 9 9 5 5 6 6 3 3 Janet Pope 1 1 - - - - - - Clare Sheikh 9 9 - - 6 6 3 3 report front amends.
indd 34 20 4 09 12:51:44 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 35 management of the Company.
The work of the Other Committees Committee during the year is explained in the Various other committees have been Remuneration section of the report on page 42. established which include Executive Directors and other senior managers.
The following are Nomination Committee the major executive committees.
All have The members are: terms of reference and are attended by the Company Secretary or his nominee to ensure Lesley Knox Chairman good governance is followed and decisions Hugh Bolland properly recorded: Alan Harden until 29 August 2008 John Hylands from 22 February 2008 Asset Allocation Committee Gordon McQueen until 31 March 2008 This Committee was set up in the course of the Christopher Masters year to replace the Asset, Liability and Income Clare Sheikh Committee.
The purpose of this committee is to Katherine Garrett-Cox from 31 August 2008 take decisions on the amount of the Companys The Committee is responsible for ensuring that capital that should be invested in each asset there is planned succession, so far as possible, class.
There is a separate committee comprising at Board level and for ensuring the proper the Chief Investment Officer and the portfolio composition of the Board is maintained.
managers who then decide on how the capital allocated to equities is divided between the In the course of this year the Committee had different regional equity portfolios.
The Asset to consider the replacement of two Executive Allocation Committee has responsibility for: Directors.
In the case of Janet Pope it was decided that an individual with the specific Allocation of the capital of the Company skills to manage Alliance Trust Savings would between the following asset classes: be sought and that the strategic aspect Equities and convertibles of her role would be assumed within the Property Chief Executives remit.
Upon Alan Hardens resignation the Committee had to consider an Fixed income securities internal appointment or an external search.
The Variable rate securities Committee had given prior consideration to the possibility of members of senior management Cash leaving the Company and had identified Private equity and venture capital Katherine Garrett-Cox as a suitable internal candidate for the role.
Investment trusts The Committee members considered that OEICs and other unitised funds Katherine Garrett-Cox had the appropriate To approve the allocation of seed capital skills to carry out the combined role of Chief to funds established by subsidiaries of Executive and Chief Investment Officer.
In the Company making this appointment the Committee took into account the stated intention of Katherine Gearing Garrett-Cox to realign focus and activity to The use of derivative instruments to support equity investment performance.
any of the foregoing Cash currency management To allocate the capital of the Company to ensure adherence to the dividend policy set by the Board report front amends.
indd 35 20 4 09 12:51:44 36 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance The Committee, which meets on a monthly Authorisation Committee basis or more often if required, comprises the This committee, comprising the Executive Chief Investment Officer, the Finance Director, Directors and other senior managers, the Director of Investment Strategy and the considers and approves changes to signing Chief Operating Officer-Investment.
authorities, approval of banking arrangements, appointment of brokers and approval of other Chief Executives Group Dissolved administrative arrangements.
While not taking following the year end decisions of major impact to the business, it The purpose of this committee was to assist provides oversight and control ensuring that the Chief Executive in the exercise of her senior management is aware of, and must responsibilities.
approve, the individuals within the business who are authorised to instruct external parties.
Executive Committee Board and Committee evaluation This Committee, comprising the Chief Executive and senior management, was constituted after The Board is committed to undertaking annual the end of the financial year and is now the reviews of its own performance, and also the main executive committee providing leadership, performance of its committees and individual oversight and communication across the Group.
This can be facilitated either It will focus on strategy and planning, provide internally or, as was the case last year, with oversight of the Operating Committee and external assistance.
This year this review was retain key decision making authorities.
undertaken by way of questionnaires followed by interviews between the Chairman and each Operating Committee of the Directors, with the Company Secretary in attendance.
This Committee, comprising the Chief Executive and the senior operational managers, was also In each case the Board and its committees were constituted after the year end and will provide considered to be functioning effectively.
a focus on financial and operation performance The Senior Independent Director led the against plan and risk management, evaluation of the Chairmans performance, prioritise projects and provide a channel for which was the subject of discussion at a communication.
meeting of the Non-Executive Directors The functions of two other management following completion by them of questionnaires committees were assumed by this Committee which were devised to assess her performance and they have been disbanded.
against a series of key attributes for a chairman.
The evaluation confirmed that the Chairman Risk Management Committee was effective in her role.
This committee comprises the Finance Director, and senior managers who oversee and review the control, monitoring and reporting framework and related procedures for risk management.
It is responsible for ensuring that there is an effective risk management framework for the group and, as such, plays an important monitoring role across all aspects of the organisation ensuring that the risks inherent within the business are under proper control.
indd 36 20 4 09 12:51:44 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 37 Appointment as a Director were reasonably likely to give rise to a conflict.
Procedures are in place to allow Directors to John Hylands was appointed on 22 February request authority should it be required and an 2008 and his appointment was confirmed at annual review of all interests is undertaken as our last Annual General Meeting.
All Directors part of the year end process.
are subject to re-election every three years and Clare Sheikh and Christopher Masters both fall Access to advice to be re-elected at this meeting.
The individual All Directors have access to independent performance of each Director and their ongoing professional advice if necessary.
suitability for re-election was considered and endorsed by the Nomination Committee Director Shareholdings having regard to their individual performances.
Both are recommended for re-election at the All Directors are required to hold 3,000 forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
shares in the Company as a condition of their appointment and all Directors hold at least that Directors and Officers Indemnification number.
Full details of Directors shareholdings can be found on page 50.
The Company provides insurance maximum payable 22 million in aggregate for legal action Major Shareholders brought against its Directors as a consequence of their position.
In addition separate deeds of The table below shows the shareholders that indemnity have been agreed with each Director have notified us that they hold more than 3% indemnifying them as permitted by company of our issued share capital or have notified us law.
The indemnity and insurance does not that they hold more than 3% of the voting extend to cover claims brought by the Company rights of ordinary shares of the Company in itself which are upheld by the Courts, nor to issue with voting rights.
Ordinary shares as at 01 April 2009 Director Development Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited 137,759,534 DC Thomson & Company Limited On an ongoing basis updates on corporate and John Leng & Company Limited 43,000,000 governance issues and business issues impacting Legal and General Group PLC 27,155,896 on the Company are provided.
Payment of Creditors Conflicts of Interest The Groups policy and practice is to pay The Company adopted new Articles of creditors in accordance with the terms agreed.
Association at its last Annual General Meeting.
At 31 January 2009 the Company had no These took effect from 1 October 2008.
The Companys subsidiary the changes introduced was to allow Directors undertaking, Alliance Trust Services Limited, who did not have a potential conflict of interest which purchases most of the goods and to authorise conflict situations for the other services for the Group and recharges them Directors should such situations arise.
During to the appropriate entity, had trade creditors the year the Directors provided details of all outstanding at 31 January 2009 representing interests which could potentially cause a conflict five days of purchases.
The unconflicted Directors in each case noted the declarations by the Directors of their other interests and confirmed that at that time none of the interests disclosed report front amends.
indd 37 20 4 09 12:51:44 38 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Relationship with Shareholders Share Buy Back Authority The Directors all attend the AGM where they At the last AGM the shareholders renewed the have the opportunity to meet shareholders.
authority originally approved at the EGM held Meetings also take place throughout the year on 10 May 2006, for the repurchase of up to with major and institutional shareholders, 14.99% of the issued shares.
This authority falls such meetings normally being attended by the to be renewed at the next AGM.
In the course Chairman or Chief Executive.
of the year the Company did not make use of this provision.
Correspondence received from shareholders by the Chairman and the Chief Executive is Annual General Meeting routinely circulated to other Directors.
In addition to formal business, the Chief In addition to these meetings, fora are held Executive will present on business developments where individual shareholders are invited to and there will be the opportunity for questions meet Directors and senior managers.
Invitations to be put to the other Directors.
This year to attend are also sent to individuals who there will be proposals to introduce a new hold their shares in the Company through performance target for the Long Term Incentive Alliance Trust Savings.
Those investors have the Plan and to confirm the notice period for opportunity to instruct how they want their convening general meetings other than Annual votes cast at the AGM or to attend the AGM.
All Directors plan to attend and other senior managers will also be present.
Details of the business of the meeting will be co. uk is available to those with online access.
Share Capital and Waiver of Dividends The Companys issued share capital as at 31 January 2009 comprised 671,909,760 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which 1,842,670 were acquired by the Trustee of an Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee with funds provided by the Company in connection with its employee share plans.
The Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those shares.
Each Ordinary share of the Company is entitled to one vote but the Trustee cannot vote in respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Company.
There are no preference shares or shares held in treasury.
Agreements in Respect of Voting Rights The Company has reached an agreement with Alliance Trust Savings whereby its clients shareholdings in the Company will be voted at the AGM in their entirety in the proportions of those clients who give instructions to vote, or abstain, on all resolutions put to the AGM.
indd 38 20 4 09 12:51:44 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 39 Under applicable law and regulations, the Accountability Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report that complies with that law and Audit and those regulations.
Directors responsibility Audit Committee The Directors are responsible for preparing In addition to reviewing and recommending the financial statements in accordance with to the Board the Financial Statements of the applicable law and regulations.
Company the Audit Committees main role is Company law requires the Directors to prepare to review changes in the business which require financial statements for each financial year.
consequent changes to the financial controls to Under that law the Directors have elected to the system of internal control review and report prepare the financial statements in accordance to the Board on the integrity and effectiveness of: with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
i the accounting and financial controls of the The financial statements are required by law Company and all its subsidiaries, although and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly Alliance Trust Savings also has its own Audit the financial position of the company and the Committee to complement the activities of performance for that period: the Companies the Committee: Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial ii the system of risk management and statements that references in the relevant part internal controls of the Company and all its of that Act to financial statements giving a true subsidiaries.
and fair view are references to their achieving a The Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit fair presentation.
and Head of Compliance will normally attend.
In preparing the financial statements, the The Chairman and the Chief Executive may directors are required to: attend by invitation and the external auditors select suitable accounting policies and then attend when financial statements they have apply them consistently: audited or reviewed are to be approved or when requested.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Committee also reviews and reports to the Board on compliance with the requirements state whether they have been prepared in of relevant legislation or regulation and the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: relationship of any group company with any and appropriate regulatory body supervising or prepare the financial statements on a going regulating its business.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to In the course of the year the Committee presume that the company will continue in considered, reviewed, approved or business.
recommended to the Board the approval of The Directors are responsible for keeping the Interim and Annual Financial Statements proper accounting records that disclose with of the Company, internal and external audit reasonable accuracy at any time the financial plans, the going concern basis of the business, position of the company and to enable them the performance and independence of the to ensure that its financial statements comply Auditor, the status of the Companys disaster with the Companies Act 1985.
They have recovery plan and the ICAAP requirements.
The general responsibility for taking such steps Committee recommends the draft accounts to as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the Board for approval.
the assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
indd 39 20 4 09 12:51:44 40 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Risk Management Auditor Independence The Board, supported by the Audit Committees During the year the Audit Committee review, is responsible for all aspects of risk reconsidered its policy for the appointment and within the business.
The Company has an remuneration of the external auditor for any extensive risk framework identifying and work undertaken on behalf of the Company.
quantifying all major risks and the risk appetite The Audit Committee determined that, due of the Company has been considered and to its in depth knowledge of the organisation, agreed.
Management is responsible for there may be occasions when the external managing and, where possible and appropriate, auditor is best placed to undertake work on reducing risks on an ongoing basis.
The success behalf of the Company in addition to the of management in achieving this is measured annual audit.
Therefore a policy was adopted through an executive risk management that allowed the external auditor to undertake committee and is monitored by the Audit such work only when where was no threat to Committee.
their independence and the assignment was approved by Audit Committee.
Internal Control The external auditor is appointed by the The Board confirms that in the course of the Board and their performance is reviewed year that a review of the effectiveness of the and monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Groups systems of controls was carried out.
Company undertakes periodic tender exercises.
Where areas of weakness were identified action The Company last undertook such an exercise is being taken to remedy the issues.
The Company maintains a separate internal KPMG Audit Plc have expressed willingness to audit function.
Risk Management oversight rests continue in office as auditor and a resolution with the Compliance function.
proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the AGM.
There is a rolling programme of internal audits based on assessment of risk with Going Concern Statement the ability to introduce unplanned audits as circumstances dictate.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Companys and the Disclosure of Information to Auditor Groups liquid assets significantly exceed its liabilities and its revenue income exceeds its The Directors who held office at the date of expenditure.
approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
indd 40 20 4 09 12:51:44 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 41 Report of Directors and Responsibility Statement The Report of the Directors, comprising the statements and reports on pages 8 to 29 together with the Directors, Directors shareholdings, major shareholdings, political and charitable donations, payment of creditors, going concern statement and disclosure of information to auditors sections of the Governance section on pages 30 to 40 of this Annual Report and Accounts has been approved by the Board.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Lesley Knox Katherine Garrett-Cox Chairman Chief Executive 17 April 2009 17 April 2009 report front amends.
