Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Board Corporate Governance statement Reecting our values The Board believes that high standards of governance are intrinsic to Amlins culture and values: They are central to fullling many of Amlins core values such as integrity, professional excellence andsustainability.
They underpin the objectivity of such processes as insurance reserving, risk management, balance sheet and investment management, the design and operation of executive remuneration and succession planning.
They are the basis for the accountability of executive management to the Board and of the Board to shareholders.
Roger Taylor Chairman Mr Buchanan, the senior independent of engaging non-executive directors Board composition director, retired as a partner of with relevant current insurance industry andindependence  LLP PwC experience which, in view of the specialist During the year the Board of Amlin plc in2001 and receives a pension annuity and complex nature of insurance, is highly the Board or plc Board comprised: the fromthat firm that can vary if the firms beneficial to the Company and that they Chairman, at different times either six or do not affect, and should not be regarded financial results do not meet a certain seven other non-executive directors and by an objective observer as affecting, the threshold.
The Board believes that Amlin three executive directors.
Biographical independence of the directors concerned in isnot a material enough client to a firm of details of all the current directors are fulfilling their roles as non-executive directors PwCs size ever to be likely to affect whether setouton page 74. of Amlin.
Nonetheless, his The only changes to the Board during the possibly perceived conflict of interest was There have been no changes in the Board year were the appointment of Mr Holt as a recognised during the auditor appointment since the year end.
The Board continues non-independent non-executive director on process that took place during the year and at the date of this report to consist of the 5 January 2009 having retired as executive managed in the manner described in the Chairman, five independent directors and Underwriting Director on 31 December 2008 Audit Committees report that follows this four non-independent directors Mr Holt and the retirement of Mr Mylvaganam, as statement.
Following PwCs appointment andthe three executive directors.
anon-independent non-executive, after theBoard has authorised the potential longand valued service, at the AGM conflict involved in Mr Buchanan continuing Regulated subsidiaries within a on 13May 2009. to act as Audit Committee chairman, allowing Group management framework him to be involved in all aspects of the 2009 was a further year of transition for the The non-executive Chairman was Committees work, save that he would step Group from an insurance business focused independent on his appointment in aside from involvement in any dispute or on its Lloyds syndicate to one in which the 1998but, as Chairman, is not classified litigation between the Group and PwC Lloyds-based business was a less dominant asindependent.
This has been reflected in organisational Mr Holt, as a former Amlin executive, changes into five newly configured business In addition to Mr Buchanans PwC interest, isnot independent.
The Board believes divisions and in a greater separation and the Board has authorised a number of other thathis long experience of the industry distinction between Group functions and potential conflicts of interest regarding the and of the Groups business is of material those of the divisions.
This has particularly independent directors, including both Mrs benefit to the Board and, although his affected the UK operations which hitherto Bosse and Mr Feinstein being directors of non-independence results in him not had been managed closely alongside the overseas insurance companies which, like serving on Board committees, he plays Group.
This organisational change has been many insurers around the world, purchase auseful role as a non-executive director reflected in governance changes that took reinsurance from the Amlin Group on normal oftwo major operating subsidiaries.
place both during the year and since the commercial terms.
Five other non-executives served throughout not material either to Amlin or, the Directors the year and have been determinedby the believe, to the other companies and in Each of the Groups business platforms Board as being independent in character both cases the reinsurance relationship hasits own regulated board: that of Amlin and judgement with no relationships is independent of, and pre-dates, their Underwriting Limited AUL for the Groups orcircumstances which are likely to Amlin directorships.
The Board remains Lloyds operations Amlin London and affect, orcould appear to affect, robustly of the view that such inter-company Amlin UK, Amlin Bermuda Ltd ABL for thedirectors judgement.
transactions are an inevitable consequence Bermuda and, since its acquisition in July 78 www.
Shareholder information 201 2009, Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI Management Board whose members Separate management with a for its business in Continental Europe.
There usually attend Supervisory Board meetings strong Group governance input are also a number of regulated agency of fi five ACI executives.
Anglo French Each regulated subsidiary has its own companies with their own boards that source Underwriters AFU has a local parent executive management separate from that business for the Groups Lloyds syndicate, company board Amlin France of four ofthe Group, with Group executives including including Anglo French Underwriters in Groupexecutives and three AFU executives.
the Chief Executive Mr Philipps and Finance France which is managed as the Groups Director Mr Hextall sitting as non-executives Thus, rather than performing dual roles fi fifth business division under a holding on subsidiary boards along with the relevant at Group and subsidiary particularly company, Amlin France SAS.
businesss executive management either AUL levels, the roles of the Group Chief onthe board or on a management board.
In late 2008 AULs executive governance was Executive and Group Finance Director have split between an Amlin London management become more distinctively Group ones, One of the main ways in which the committee and an Amlin UK management being involved in subsidiaries at board and Companyensures that there is suffi cient committee.
They each hold quarterly review strategic levels and, in a few limited areas, Group infl uence and control within this meetings with Group and AUL executives, where a specifi c function may have been delegated structure is through overlapping which report to the AUL board.
internally outsourced to the Group such board memberships the year end position is asinvestments.
illustrated in the Board memberships chart The distinction between Group and overleaf.
In the UK the Chairman and three divisional subsidiary roles has facilitated In terms of plc Board reporting, key indicator other non-executive directors of the agreater concentration of Messrs Philipps reports on each of the fi five business divisions Company serve as non-executives on the andHextalls time on plc strategic and longer are made to the plc Board in addition to AUL Board in addition to the Group Chief term issues, rather than on the day-to-day consolidated reports on a Group level.
Executive and Group Finance Director who management of AUL.
Together with the Achieving greater focus of divisional moved to internal non-executives roles Chief Risk Offi cer Mr James Illingworth, business reporting to plc, enabling the within AUL in late 2008, with AUL now being and a new Chief Operations Offi cer recruited Boardto concentrate on its key strategic managed by its own Managing Director, during the year Mr Andrew Grant, they andcontrol roles, has been an important comprise a focused Group Executive.
Finance Director and the Underwriting Board objective during the year.
Directors of Amlin London and Amlin UK.
The new structure also facilitated the MrIllingworth, a director of AUL and ACI, Evolving Board management of the acquisition of ACI isChief Risk Offi cer at both Group and AUL Committeestructures inJuly 2009 and the subsequent start to levels.
The ABL board has three executive As the plc Board has overall responsibility its integration with the Group and should directors and three non-executives from the to shareholders and other stakeholders for facilitate the smooth management of further Amlin plc board the Group Chief Executive, the Groups operations, it is necessary not additional business platforms for the Group Group Finance Director and a non-executive.
only for the plc Board to direct the overall should appropriate opportunities arise.
ACI has a two tier board structure comprising strategy, values and standards for the Group The relationship between the corporate a Supervisory Board made up of an but for its Board Committees to be able and management structures is illustrated in effectively to oversee the aspects of the independent Chairman with a further the Corporate and management structure independent planned to be appointed in whole Group relevant to their responsibilities.
2010 and three plc Group executives and a The distinction between Group and Corporate and management structure Corporate entity Supervisory boards Amlin plc Management boards Management Group Executive Boards Amlin Bermuda Ltd Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin France SAS Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. Supervisory Board Quota share Syndicate 2001 Anglo French Underwriters Amlin Corporate Insurance SAS N. V. Management Board Business divisions Executive Amlin Amlin UK AFU ACI Amlin Bermuda management London Business ows Quota shares Business provider 79 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Board Corporate Governance statement continued Board memberships Amlin plc 7 plc NEDs 3 plc Execs Amlin Corporate Amlin France SAS Amlin Bermuda Ltd Amlin Underwriting Ltd Insurance N. V. 2 plc Execs 1 plc NED 4 plc NEDs Supervisory Board 1 AUL Exec 2 plc Execs 3 plc Execs 1 Independent 1 Group Exec 3 local Execs 5 local Execs 2 plc execs 3 local Execs 1 Group AUL Exec Amlin London Amlin UK Amlin Corporate Review Committee Review Committee Insurance N. V. 2 plc Execs 3 plc Execs Management Board 5 AUL Execs 3 AUL Execs 5 local Execs 4 local Execs 5 local Execs Boards Review Committees Management Board inc Brian Carpenter, Underwriting Director subsidiary governance responsibilities is also and ACIs Audit Committee will make reports but, similarly to the Nomination Committee, refl ected in evolving committee structures.
to the Amlin plc Audit Committee as well it reports the conclusions of its reviews During the year the operation of both the asto their respective boards.
of matters within the control of regulated Audit and Nomination Committees as subsidiaries to the boards of the relevant Since the year end the Nomination joint committees with AUL enabled those subsidiaries.
This committee structure is Committee has also ceased to be a joint Committees to report directly to AUL the illustrated in the chart below.
committee with AUL but now reviews conclusions of its reviews of matters that succession planning for key roles within the Executive, as well as Board, are that boards regulatory responsibility.
whole Group, reporting the conclusions of its Asdiscussed in the Audit Committees own corporate governance reviews to the relevant subsidiary boards as report, since the year end AUL has set up its Amlin regards Board level corporate well as to the plc Board.
The Remuneration own separate Audit Committee and both that governance as only the most visible aspect Committee remains a plc Board committee Board and board committees structure Amlin plc Board Principal plc Committees Remuneration Nomination Audit committee committee committee Key subsidiary Boards Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin Corporate Amlin Bermuda Ltd Amlin France SAS Board Insurance N. V. Board Board Supervisory Board Subsidiary Committees AUL Audit Committee ACI Audit Committee plc process Committees Allotment Committee Disclosure Committee plc Board and Committees Subsidiary Boards and committees plc Committees reporting their review conclusions to regulated subsidiaries as well as to plc Board 80 www.
Shareholder information 201 of a review and decision-making structure Risk management operational decisions being taken by the that goes much deeper.
It remains the Whilst processes vary in each business, Chief Investment Officer.
The executive philosophy of the Group that key decisions there is a clear line of responsibility for risk isassisted in its decision making and and processes, including purely executive management from business managers to recommendations to the boards by an ones, take place within an objective their local management and to the Group Investment Advisory Panel IAP consisting governance framework, whether they Executive.
For Amlin London and Amlin ofmembers of the Investment Management beatGroup, subsidiary or divisional level.
UK, that line is to an AUL previously a Executive plus three external investment Group executive Risk Committee and, experts.
Investment management itself is The Group Executive team referred to above from there, to the AUL board.
AULs outsourced to external managers.
The whole is responsible, through the Chief Executive Risk Committee also reports back to process is governed by an investment and directly, to the plc Board.
Executives themanagement of each of its divisions framework, which documents what decisions in the business areas report both to the in order to ensure that recommendations may be taken at what level.
In late 2009 Group Executive and to their relevant for risk assessment, control and mitigation ACIwas integrated into this Group structure operational boards and management are carefully considered and acted upon at already in place for AUL and ABL AFU, committees.
In addition to the Group executive level.
At ABL, ACI and AFU, risk asan agency, not having its own Executive, an Executive Strategy Group governance is a Board level responsibility.
ESG, including representatives from some At Group level, the Audit Committee has of the businesses, assists the Group Chief Corporate responsibility specific responsibilities for risk, as outlined Executive on strategic issues, joining the The Chief Executive has Board level in more detail in that committees report.
Board for its annual planning and strategy responsibility for all corporate responsibility That Committee, as well as the plc Board, session after which the Group strategy matters.
The Group operates a Charities and receives reports from the Chief Risk Officer isdetermined or refined.
Community Panel and a Climate Change and on the whole Group.
Further details of Environment Panel, each of which inputs into The business functions themselves are the Groups risk management, and its managements review of the Groups overall all described in more detail in the Review development during the year, are also set out corporate responsibility activities.
The fruits section of the Annual Report.
Summaries in the Review section of the Annual Report.
of this structure are reflected in the separate ofthe governance arrangements for some The conclusions of the Boards review Corporate Responsibility report that follows key functions now follow.
of internal control is set out in the Board the corporate governance reports.
internal control statement later in this report.
Reserving Board and Committee meetings Investments Responsibility for reserving is that The setting and execution of the Groups oftheregulated boards and, at Group and attendance investment strategy has its own hierarchy consolidated level, the plc Board but it is The plc Board held six regular Board of responsibilities.
The relevant boards important that the process through which meetings in 2009 2008: six and one AUL for Syndicate funds, which includes executive management reach their reserving two-day planning and strategy session its underwriting and capital assets, ABL decisions is objective and robust.
Two Board meetings were and ACI for their own funds, and Amlin plc performed for Amlin London, Amlin UK and held during the year to consider specific for surplus capital and a Group overview ABL by their respective quarterly review or corporate transactions 2008: one as well are responsible for setting and monitoring board meetings, which review and finalise as a number of informal conference calls their own investment risk appetites within the preliminary reserving conclusions for for the same purpose attended by most the overall Group investment appetite.
their businesses, reporting at subsidiary directors.
The subsidiary operating boards Investment advice and many elements board level each quarter and, twice-yearly, met quarterly.
The attendance of each of management are outsourced to the to Amlin plcs Audit Committee.
Quarterly director at plc Board meetings out of nine Group Investment function headed by the review meetings receive actuarial reports possible meetings, including the planning Chief Investment Officer.
An Investment from the Group Risk Assessment & and strategy session are shown on the Management Executive consisting of Monitoring department reviewing following page.
The committee attendances the Group Finance Director, Group Chief theconsistency of the key reserving of those directors who were members of any Executive and Chief Investment Officer has judgements.
Similar processes are being of the principal board committees for all or responsibility for important tactical asset implemented as part of the integration any part of the year are also shown on the allocation decisions and advice, with ofACI and AFU.
81 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Board Corporate Governance statement continued Board meeting attendance in 2009 Number of meetings attended C Bosse 7 N J C Buchanan 9 B D Carpenter 7 R H Davey 9 M D Feinstein 9 R A Hextall 9 A W Holt 9 R W Mylvaganam retired May 2009 maximum possible meetings 3 3 C E L Philipps 9 R J Taylor 9 Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 9 Average % attendance 96% Committee membership and meeting attendance in 2009 No.
of meetings attended out of no.
of meetings taking place whilst a Committee member Audit Nomination Remuneration C Bosse 9 10 N J C Buchanan 7 7 2 2 10 10 R H Davey 7 7 2 2 M D Feinstein 7 7 C E L Philipps 2 2 R J Taylor 2 2 Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 2 2 10 10 Average % attendance 100% 100% 97% Includes two special meetings, one to consider auditor appointment process and one to receive special risk presentations A mixture of meetings with full agendas and short or update meetings Compliance with Combined Code During the year ended 31 December 2009 the Company complied with all of the provisions of section 1 companies of the Combined Code.
This report, the following Committee reports, the Directors Remuneration report and the summary table below together describe how the Company applied the Main and Supporting Principles of the Combined Code during the year.
Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary A.
1 The Board The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its own and its committees decisions provides that the an effective boardcollectively responsible Boards primary obligation is to lead and control the Company and its business, with exclusive decision for the success of the company making powers over such matters as: overall strategy and resources: risk appetite: investment strategy: remuneration policies: accounting policies: capital expenditure, acquisitions and debt facilities over certain thresholds: and certain key Group policies, appointments and categories of public announcements.
The detailed implementation of all these matters, and day-to-day business, are left to management, which reports formally to the Board at least quarterly on underwriting, financial and other operational matters and objectives.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary on request.
The Board meets regularly, usually at full strength, as demonstrated in Board meeting attendance in 2009 table above.
The NEDs met during the year without executive directors or other executive management present, including at least once without the Chairman.
The Chairman chairs full NED meetings and the senior independent director chairs meetings when the Chairman is not present.
2 Chairman and Chief Executive There is a division of responsibilities on the Board between the Chairman, who is responsible for leading clear division of responsibilities and running the Board and related matters such as Board induction and evaluation, and the Group Chief Executive, who has executive responsibility for running the Groups business.
A statement detailing this division of responsibilities, which includes provision for the Chairmans role in ensuring accountability of the Chief Executive to him and to the Board, in shareholder relations and in ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors, has been approved by the Board.
3 Board balance and independence The balance of the Board, its strong independent representation and the sharing of Committee work are set a balance of executive and non-executive out in earlier sections of this Board Corporate Governance statement.
Mr Buchanan is the senior independent directors in particular independent NEDs director designated as an appropriate director to whom shareholders concerns may be conveyed if contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve them or isinappropriate.
Shareholder information 201 Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary A.
4 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association Articles set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for andre-election of directors.
the appointment of new directorsexpected time commitments of NEDs The process for nomination to the Board and for considering succession planning is set out in the Nomination Committee report that follows this report.
The Board continues to satisfy itself that the Chairman has sufficient time available to devote to his duties as non-executive Chairman of the Company and of AUL.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the other NEDs, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the following expected minimum annual time commitments to the Company and AUL: Chairman of the companies: 75 days Senior independent, including chairing Audit Committee Mr Buchanan : 30 days Chairman of Remuneration Committee Sir Mark Wrightson : 25 days Member of both a Board Committee and of the AUL Board Mr Feinstein : 25 days Others including either a Board Committee or membership of the AUL Board : 20 days.
Mr Holts time spent as a non-executive director of ABL is not included in the above.
5 Information and professional development The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its timely quality informationinduction on joining duties, including providing constructive challenge to, and scrutiny of, management.
Further information is regular update of skills and knowledge obtained by the Board from the executive directors and other senior executives as appropriate.
All directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, accounting and insurance industry matters.
Updating information on technical and or industry matters is provided to the Board with opportunities for discussion.
During 2009 special sessions were held on risk and a special Board visit was made to AFU.
In addition, the Company encourages, facilitates and monitors other professional development for both executive and non-executive directors as is required fortheir particular roles.
The Company maintains a model director induction programme but this was not operated during the year asthere were no new directors.
Procedures are in place for directors to take independent professional advice, when necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board and its committees are supported by the Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, advises the board on all governance matters and helps to ensure good communication and information flows within the Board, including between executive and non-executive directors and between the Board and its Committees.
He also facilitates the Board updating and induction work outlined above.
Subsidiary Boards other than ABL which has its own local arrangements in Bermuda and executive level committees are also serviced, attended and minuted by the Secretary or another member of his team.
6 Performance evaluation Since the last annual report the Board has completed an annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, formal and rigorous annual evaluation its Committees and each director.
The annual evaluations were initiated by a questionnaire completed by of its own performance each director giving his assessment of both collective and individual performances.
The results of the latest Board evaluation were summarised by the Chairman at its meeting in February 2010 and the Board agreed itsconclusions.
Each Board Committee evaluated its performance at the turn of the year, and the conclusions were also reported to the Board in February 2010.
The Chairman also discussed any issues arising from the evaluation of each individual director, including the performances of executive directors in respect of their boardroom as opposed to executive roles which are evaluated as part of the Groups regular Performance Development Review process, with the director concerned.
The Chief Executives total performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
The Chairmans own evaluation was conducted by the non-executive directors led by the senior independent director, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The senior independent director discussed and agreed the conclusions with the Chairman.
7 Re-election The Articles of Association of the Company provide for re-election at regular intervals, as more fully described re-election at regular intervalsplanned and in the next section of this report.
progressive refreshing of the board Details of the procedures whereby appointments and re-appointments to the Board are considered are set out in the Nomination Committee report below.
Board and individual directors evaluations are taken into account by that committee when considering specifications for new NEDs, succession planning and nominations for re-election at AGMs.
Further details of the terms of appointment of both the non-executive and executive directors are also set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
1 The level and make-up of remuneration The Directors Remuneration report starting on page 98 sets out the policies and practices which demonstrate levelssufcient to attract, retain and motivate the Companys implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
directorsavoid paying more than is necessary significant proportion of executive remuneration 83 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Board Corporate Governance statement continued Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary B. Remuneration continued B.
2 Procedure The above sections entitled Board composition and independence and Board and Committee meetings formal and transparent procedure and attendance demonstrate the appropriate membership and meeting frequency of the Remuneration Committee.
There are generally five or six main meetings each year with a varying number of other meetings to implement formally decisions that have already been made or to deal with urgent matters.
Further details of the Remuneration Committees terms of reference and the Boards policy and practices regarding NED remuneration and terms of office are set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
C. Accountability and audit C. 1 Financial reporting The Audit Committees role in ensuring that the Groups financial reporting meets the standards of present balanced and understandable assessment transparency and balance that are required and in monitoring reporting to regulators is set out in more of position and prospects detailinthe Audit Committee report following this report.
A going concern statement is included in the Directors report.
C. 2 Internal control The Boards statement and commentary on its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal sound system of internal control control is set out in the Board internal control statement below.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors The role of the Audit Committee and the conduct of the relationship with the auditors is set out in the Audit formal and transparent arrangements for Committee report below.
applying financial reporting and internal control principles D. Relations with shareholders D. 1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Company is committed to a process of continuing dialogue with its shareholders, including making dialogue based on mutual understanding appropriate contact with institutional investors and their representative bodies when there are specific of objectives matters to discuss.
Other details of the dialogue, and its reporting to the Board, are set out in the Investor relations section of the Annual Report on page 90.
D. 2 Constructive use of Annual General Meeting Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM by the Chief Executive making a presentation there on the use AGM to communicate with investors and Groups progress.
The voting participation at its last three AGMs was proxies representing 73%, 68% and encourage their participation 77% of its shares in issue in 2007, 2008 and 2009 respectively.
Electronic proxy voting, details of which are included in the 2010 AGM circular and Notice of Meeting, is made available.
The totals of proxy votes on each resolution, including details of any votes withheld, are announced at the meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and the full proxy voting results are always announced through a regulatory news service and on the Companys website.
In the event of a close result as indicated by the proxies held by the chairman of the meeting, the chairman would call a poll but this did not prove necessary at any of the AGMs referred to.
The Board believes that the immediacy of voting on a show of hands with theproxy votes immediately being announced, rather than a laborious process of conducting a formal poll onevery resolution, is appreciated by the shareholders who attend the meeting.
Director and shareholder governance provisions in the Articles of Association The following summaries of certain aspects of the Companys current Articles of Association Articles are incorporated by reference into the Directors Report starting on page 114.
None of these provisions is proposed to be materially changed in the new Articles proposed foradoption at the 2010 AGM.
Aspect of Articles Commentary Directors Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of directors.
Adirector may be removed either by a unanimous resolution of fellow directors or by an ordinary resolution of the Company in general meeting.
As regards appointments, the Board may appoint additional directors at any time but such appointees must, if they wish to continue, be elected by shareholders by an ordinary resolution at the AGM following their appointment.
The Articles also provide that no term of office may exceed the period between election or re-election by shareholders and the AGM in the third year following such election or re-election.
In certain circumstances, directors are proposed for election for shorter periods.
Re-election to the Board The Articles of Association of the Company provide that, following a directors election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following his or her initial appointment by the Board, each directors term of office before being required to submit himself or herself to shareholders for re-election is three years.
If an NED has served on the Board for nine years or more, this is shortened to one year.
Relations with shareholders Procedure at Annual General Meeting Amendments to the Articles may only be made by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders of the Company, usually the AGM.
In order for a special resolution to be passed, it must be approved by 75% ormore of the shares voted on the resolution, either in person or by proxy.
Shareholder information 201 committee, which meets at least monthly Assessment Board internal control statement and is responsible for all strategic and The Board has overall responsibility for the During the year the Committee simultaneously operational activities on a day-to-day basis.
Groups system of internal control and has reviewed and monitored matters which are The other key control elements are the complied with Principle C. 2 of the Combined the regulatory responsibility of the board subsidiary boards and review committees, to ofAUL on which it reported directly to Code by establishing a continuous process which the relevant management committees thatboard and of the boards of ABL, for identifying, evaluating and managing or management boards report.
The latter are the significant risks the Group faces.
This AFUand, since its acquisition, ACI.
responsible for the day-to-day operation of process has been in place from the start of TheplcBoard receives regular reports Amlins individual businesses, including 2009 to the date of approval of this report, fromthe Committee which reviews the internal control.
mainprocesses established and operated has been regularly reviewed by the Board within the Group.
These processes are and accords with the Revised Guidance for Business planning Directors on the Combined Code October designed to ensure that significant risks are The Group has developed a formal structured 2005 the Turnbull guidance.
This process identified, evaluated, managed and controlled.
business planning process which operates explicitly includes the risks and opportunities They also permit the Committee to determine for all business elements.
This operates whether any significant weaknesses are to enhance value that arise from social, on an annual cycle with proposed plans promptly remedied or indicate a need environmental and ethical matters.
being presented to and agreed by relevant formore extensive monitoring.
The Board is also responsible for reviewing subsidiary boards prior to being consolidated The Committee has also performed a the effectiveness of the Groups system of and approved by the plc Board.
Monitoring internal control and the directors are aware specific assessment for the purpose of this processes operate monthly and the Groups that such a system is designed to manage, Annual Report.
This assessment considers financial performance monitoring includes rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to all significant aspects of internal control detailed reporting against budgets and the arising during the period covered by the achieve business objectives and can only preparation of longer-term projections.
report, including the work of internal audit.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, Risk assessment assurance against material misstatement The Committee assists the Board in Amlins risk assessment process has, in orfinancial loss.
2009, included output from a new system In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of The Board has not identified or been introduced from 2008 for reporting on all theCombined Code, the Audit Committee advised of any failings or weaknesses which the identified risks to the achievement of Committee reviews regularly, on behalf of it has determined to be significant during the Group objectives and on the nature and course of its review of the system of internal the Board, the effectiveness of the Groups effectiveness of the controls and other control.
However, as the integration of ACI system of internal control.
Monitoring covers management processes to manage the all controls, including financial, operational and into the Amlin Group has progressed it has key risks.
This system encompasses self compliance controls and risk management become evident that the standards of risk assessment of controls by risk owners processes.
We can confirm that necessary management and internal control within throughout the business coupled with thatoperation are not consistent with actions have been or are being taken to independent challenge of these assertions remedy any significant identified control thoseoperating in the rest of the Group, by the Group Risk team.
Significant risks, failings or weaknesses and the Committee although the Board is confident that their potential impact on the Groups financial has received regular reports from management managements plans to address position, and the actions taken to manage to assist with this process.
those risks were reviewed regularly during the year by the Risk Committee of senior The Committee remains satisfied with Control framework executives and by the Committee.
thearrangements by which staff may, in The Board has put in place a management confidence and if they wish via an external structure with defined lines of responsibility Internal audit reporting line, raise concerns about possible and clear delegation of authority.
This Internal audit and compliance monitoring improprieties in matters of financial reporting structure cascades down through the work is carried out respectively by the or other matters.
operating elements of the business with Groups Internal Audit and Risk Assessment  for ensuring that and Monitoring departments.
The latter also By Order of the Board appropriate controls are in place at an provides compliance advice.
The heads of operational level.
A reporting mechanism to both departments report to the Group Chief monitor how these initiatives are working has Executive and to the Committee.
The Group C C T Pender Secretary also been established.
Key elements of the has established risk based audit and 26 February 2010 overall control environment are the various compliance programmes for reviewing executive governance bodies discussed andevaluating the internal controls earlier in this Board Corporate Governance andcompliance procedures used statement, including the Group Executive inthemanagement of risk.
85 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Nomination Committee Appointments and succession The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending board appointments and considering succession planning, so that the Board, its committees and those lling other senior Group positions comprise executives and non-executives with the appropriate balance of experience and qualities to deliver the strategic direction, entrepreneurial leadership, values, management, standards and framework of controls that are required for the Companys success.
Roger Taylor Chairman and attendance section of the Boards continues to identify short term contingencies Terms of reference corporate governance statement.
for fulfilling each role at short notice as well as, The Nomination Committee the Committee, which during the year operated as a joint in most cases, one or more potential internal Activities candidates as permanent successors.
The committee of the boards of the Company During the year the Committee reviewed the Committee was satisfied that the overall plan and of its UK operating subsidiary, Amlin general structure, size and composition of the is well conceived and effectively managed.
Underwriting Limited AUL, is responsible for Board and reaffirmed that the present Board The Committee paid particular attention to identifying, and nominating for the approval balance and the composition of each main of the Board, all candidates for Board the few areas where plans for particular roles Board Committee remained appropriate.
appointment and proposed election or require further development.
The Committee re-election to the Board, whether non-executive also discussed the continuing renewal of the Following the appointments as non-executive or executive.
Since the year end, reflecting non-executive directors, considering likely Directors of Mrs Bosse in 2008 and Mr Holt the expansion of the Group, the Committee retirement dates, Committee succession, in early 2009, and the planned retirement of has reverted to being a committee solely andthe likely timing of future appointments.
Mr Mylvaganam as a non-executive Director ofthe Board of the Company, with its role at the AGM in May 2009, the Committee The Committee recommended to the Board regarding subsidiaries being to assist the decided that no further changes to the the nomination at the 2009 AGM of Mrs Bosse, Board in its oversight of key senior Group Boardwere appropriate at present.
Messrs Buchanan, Carpenter, Davey, Hextall, appointments and succession planning.
Holt and Philipps, and Sir Mark Wrightson, In reviewing the make-up of the non-executive Re-nomination of directors to the allof whom were elected or re-elected by members of the Board, the Committee noted CompanysAnnual General Meeting AGM shareholders for the usual term of three years.
that out of the present seven non-executive isconsidered on a case by case basis before No Directors terms of office are due to end Directors including the Chairman, four recommendations are made.
areinsurance sector specialists with the terms of reference require it to give full remaining three bringing wider financial sector consideration to succession planning, both Committee evaluation experience, and that two are from overseas.
in respect of the Board and senior executive The Committee took account of Board Six have served as non-executives for less roles below Board level, taking into account evaluation conclusions when considering than six years, with one of the present five the challenges and opportunities facing the nominations for re-election at the 2009 AGM.
independent Directors having been first Group and what skills and expertise are The Committee has also recently conducted appointed to the Board in each of the needed in the future.
It also recommends to its own annual self-evaluation, covering its years2004 to 2008 inclusive.
The the Board the appointment of, and changes terms of reference, composition, procedures, executivemembers of the Board also bring in, members of the Boards main Committees.
The Committee complementary skills and experience to the No director may participate in any decision also concluded that it had during 2009 fulfilled Board.
There is also regular, formal and direct regarding his or her own position.
The the duties placed upon itby its terms of reporting to the Board by other senior Group Committees terms of reference are available reference.
The conclusions of the Committee executives, most frequently from the active in the Corporate Governance section of evaluation were reported to the Board early underwriter of Amlin London, the Chief Risk Investor Relations on the Companys website in2010.
Officer and the Chief Investment Officer.
or from the Company Secretary on request.
By Order of the Board, on the recommendation In September the Committee concluded of the Nomination Committee Membership, meetings its regular review of the succession plan regarding all senior executive roles in andattendance The Committees membership, number of the Group.
The plans for AFU and Amlin meetings and attendance during the year are Corporate Insurance were included in the C C T Pender Secretary set out in the Board and Committee meetings Committees review for the first time.
Shareholder information 201 Audit Committee Independent review The Audit Committee makes recommendations on the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects of the Directors and the Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to executive management in these areas.
Its aim is to ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, controls, risk management and compliance, in the belief that excellence in these areas enhances theeffectiveness, and reduces the risks, of the business.
Nigel Buchanan Committee Chairman understanding and monitoring risk, Board Corporate Governance statement.
Terms of reference, including review of the outcomes of the Both the Nomination Committee in making relationshipwith subsidiaries its recommendations to the Board, and Own Risks and Solvency Assessment andindependent advice the Committee in its own self-evaluation, prepared by the Chief Risk Officer.
The terms of reference of the Audit reviews the Committees membership.
Thereview recommended not setting Committee the Committee, which during All of the Committees members Messrs up a separate Board risk committee on the year operated as a joint committee of the Buchanan, Davey and Feinstein have, in the the grounds that divorcing committee boards of the Company and its UK operating Boards view, recent and relevant financial review of risk from that of internal subsidiary, Amlin Underwriting Limited experience.
Mr Buchanan, the Committee control and audit, and potentially AUL, are designed to enable it to take an Chairman, is a former senior audit partner diluting the Boards own focus independent view of the appropriateness of of , responsible the Groups: accounting policies, practices onrisk, would not be helpful.
before his retirement from the firm for the and reporting: risk management, compliance An explicit authority has been added audits of several major UK-based financial and internal control processes: and internal for the Committee to engage its services organisations.
Mr Daveys banking audit process and effectiveness.
They also own independent external advice career included service on executive place responsibility on the Committee to at the Companys expense should management and risk committees as well as consider the appointment and fees both it deem it necessary previously this corporate finance advice to major insurance audit and non-audit of the external auditors, was implicitly authorised by means companies.
He currently serves on the Audit who have unrestricted access to it.
Since the of the general procedure whereby Committee of a major UK building society year end, the terms of reference have been any Director or Directors may obtain and was also at one time Finance Director of reviewed with the following main changes independent advice if needed.
During an international financial group.
Mr Feinstein, adopted in February 2010: 2009 no member of the Committee, a former CEO of one of the largest property nor the Committee collectively, found The previous joint Committee of the and casualty insurers in the USA, has some Company and AUL has been split into it necessary to obtain such separate 35 years commercial experience of the separate Audit Committees for the advice beyond the advice that is directly insurance industry.
This combination of Company and for AUL with overlapping provided to the Committee by the audit, wider financial services and insurance membership.
This recognises that AUL external auditors.
executive experience provides, in the is a less dominant operating subsidiary The Committees new terms of reference, view of the Board, an appropriate group than in the past, owing to the Groups which continue to take full account of of experienced professionals to fulfil the expansion, including the acquisition in the Smith Report on the role of audit dutiesof the Committee.
July 2009 of Amlin Corporate Insurance committees, are available in the Corporate The Chairman of the Company, the Group N. V. ACI which already had its own Governance section of Investor Relations Chief Executive and the Group Finance Audit Committee.
The Group Finance on the Companys website or from the Director usually attend the Committees Director is a member of both the AUL Company Secretary on request.
meetings, as do the Chief Risk Officer and ACI Audit Committees alongside andthe Head of Internal Audit and, during independent non-executive directors Membership, meetings 2009, the Managing Director and Finance with the membership of the Companys andattendance Director of AUL.
Committee remaining exclusively The Committees membership and number independent non-executives.
of meetings and attendance level during the The Committee received and considered Greater emphasis has now been year are set out in the Board and Committee detailed papers and information sufficiently placed on the Committees role in membership and attendance section of the in advance of its meetings for its 87 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Audit Committee continued members to consider them appropriately, In addition, each Interim Management The result of the process, as announced makingsuggestions for improvements when Statement of the Company was reviewed in September 2009, was that PwC were required.
At least once a year the Committee by the Committee as well as, in its capacity recommended to the Board by the two meets, both on its own and with the external as AULs Audit Committee, Syndicate unconflicted members of the Committee auditors, without any executive management 2001s Annual Report and Individual Capital Messrs Davey and Feinstein and were present.
The Committee also meets privately Assessment ICA and AULs own accounts.
subsequently appointed as auditors to with the Head of Internal Audit, who has all Group entities.
The Committee was The Committee reviewed the external a private line of communication with the grateful to all three firms for responding to auditors engagement and service plans, Committee Chairman.
His executive the challenge of the selection process, and their independence and the extent and reporting line is to the Group Chief Executive particularly to Deloitte who had served the reasons for them providing non-audit and he is both appointed, and may only Group with diligence and skill since their services a breakdown of the fees for bedismissed, by the Committee.
appointment as Group auditors in 2000. whichis set out in note 13 to the Accounts.
Those who recommended the appointment Activities A new policy governing the types of are confident that the PwC team is well The Committees activities may be divided non-audit services for which the external placed to assist the Group as it meets the between its review and decisions relating auditors may be appointed was adopted challenges of its next period of development.
to four interlinked areas: financial reporting bythe Committee in early 2010.
Reports and external audit: risk: internal control: Procedures operated throughout the year were received from the external auditors andinternal audit.
for the approval of any appointments of inrespect of each set of financial statements, the external auditors or its associated highlighting the material judgmental areas, Financial reporting entities toprovide non-audit services.
which were then discussed by the andexternalaudit TheCommittee remained satisfied that Committee with the auditors alongside The prime financial reporting focus of the the provision of such non-audit services thereports from management.
Committee during the year was, as ever, by Deloitte LLP until September 2009 Following the acquisition of ACI, which onthe integrity of the Companys interim and and PwC since their appointment has not resulted in existing auditor appointments preliminary results statements and its Annual compromised either auditors independence.
being spread between three firms, the Report.
In addition to the usual consideration Committee decided to combine its annual of the appropriateness of the accounting Risk review of the external auditors effectiveness policies being adopted, the Committee For many years the Committee has had the with a review of the Group external auditor particularly concentrated on: foreign currency responsibility of reviewing the Groups risk appointment.
Having appraised the attributes management processes but the extent of translation effects: accounting for acquisitions sought, the Committee conducted a rigorous this involvement deepened materially during Amlin France AFU and, in preparation for the competitive selection process between the 2009 alongside the further development of 2009 Accounts, Amlin Corporate Insurance incumbent Deloitte LLP and two other the Groups risk management processes ACI : the appropriateness and basis of firms.
Key selection criteria included sector mark-to-market valuations of investments: operated by management as set out expertise and experience, the strengths of changes in the basis of the Groups pension in theRisk Management section of the firms in all the jurisdictions in which the fund accounting: taxation provisioning: theAnnualReport.
Group now operates, the organisation and and the consistency and robustness of the The Chief Risk Officer and occasionally depth of the teams proposed for Amlins Groups insurance reserves.
On the latter other members of the Risk Assessment account and the added value that each firm both the reserving process and its results and Monitoring department as appropriate was judged to be likely to be able to provide were reviewed, including comparisons of attended each Committee meeting to report to the organisation as its auditors.
The actuarial estimates and actual reserves held, on the overall work of the department.
Committee Chairman, Mr Buchanan, took and, where necessary, challenged.
The no part on the selection between the three In addition to detailed quarterly reporting by Committee was satisfied that the significant assumptions underlying the reported figures, firms, and expressed no opinion between the Chief Risk Officer to the Committee, the including those relevant to determining fair them, in recognition of his conflict of interest Committee held a special meeting on risk, values and to the recoverability of reinsurance the potential conflict having previously also attended by non-executives who are not debt, were justified and that there was been authorised by the Board before any members of the Committee.
Management appropriate and meaningful disclosure of the new auditor appointment was envisaged made presentations on risk management, its governance and the processes for critical judgement and keyestimates made, as a recipient of a pension annuity from recommending risk appetite and for which took account ofthe volatile nature of  LLP PwC reviewing both existing and the markets to whichthe Group is exposed.
Shareholder information 201 emerging risks for the Group.
The meeting responsibilities and that it had fulfilled the also reviewed the key components of the duties placed upon it by its terms of reference.
Groups Dynamic Financial Analysis model, The Committee also concluded that it had which is a key component in setting the during 2009 fulfilled the duties placed upon Groups risk management framework and it by its terms of reference.
These and other AULs Individual Capital Assessment the more detailed conclusions of its evaluation latter of which was subsequently approved were agreed and reported to the Board early at a later meeting of the Committee.
in 2010 at the same time as the amendments to its terms of reference mentioned at the Internal control start of this report were approved.
Details of the Committees role regarding The Committee has been actively involved internal control issues are set out in the Board inthe preparation of this report.
internal control statement on page 85 within the Board Corporate Governance statement.
By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee Internal audit The Committee reviewed the plans and work undertaken during the year by the C C T Pender Secretary Groups Internal Audit department, including 26 February 2010 reports relating to overseas subsidiaries, and the consequential actions agreed with management.
Reporting to the Committee includes summaries of the findings of all internal audit reports, enabling members of the Committee to question the Head of Internal Audit on any report.
The Committee closely scrutinised managements progress in addressing the relevant issues, challenging management to move more quickly when it considered it appropriate.
During the year the Committee has been mindful of the need to ensure that internal audit focus is aligned with the areas of greatest risk facing the Group, and further development of such alignment is planned for 2010.
The Committee also monitored the Groups compliance with the Financial Services Authority, Lloyds and other regulatory requirements and recommendations, and reviewed the Groups whistle blowing procedures under which no matters were raised by staff during the year.
Committee evaluation and reporting During the year the Committee conducted aself-evaluation of its terms of reference, composition, procedures, contribution and effectiveness.
The Committee concluded that during 2009 it had received sufficient, reliable, and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its 89
