Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Investor relations Engaging with shareholders We aim to: Be open, transparent and accessible in communications about our business and its performance, so that investors and other stakeholders can make informed judgements about the company Take account of shareholder views on our business and strategy Communicate with our investors and the wider investment community in the most appropriate and effective manner.
Charles Philipps Chief Executive Amlins continued growth, record of out At the start of the year we appointed 84% including ACI 2008: 84% held shares performance and its entry into the FTSE100 Financial Dynamics as Investor Relations through the SIP at the year end.
Excluding index for six months from December 2008, advisers to assist with Amlins Investor the SIP, 41% 2008: 61% of staff had have all contributed to increasing interest Relations strategy.
Among other services, outstanding options or conditional share inAmlin from investors and equity analysts.
Financial Dynamics provides detailed pre awards under one or more of the companys Atthe start of 2009 we recruited a full time and post meeting feedback from equity share plans at the year end.
Reductions Investor Relations specialist to assist the analysts on the issues analysts perceive in most of these percentages reflect the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director as relevant to Amlin, as well as broader lower participation in most categories of the in managing this interest and to ensure commentary on market sentiment and employees of ACI, which joined the Group thatAmlin communicates effectively trends.
These reports are used to inform during the year.
They comprised 32% of withitsinvestors and the wider Amlins communications with the stock yearend Group employees.
market and ensure that relevant issues andconcerns raised by analysts are Sector prole During the year we instituted various addressed.
We also actively seek feedback The two principal stock market indices of initiatives to facilitate further broadening from institutional investors both informally which Amlin shares were a constituent over of Amlins shareholder base among on a direct basis and through formal reviews the last five years are the FTSE350 index and appropriate target investors and maintain conducted by Financial Dynamics and RBS the FTSE All Share Non-Life Insurance index.
positive engagement with existing investors.
These As shown in the chart opposite, the total These include a sophisticated investor reviews are made available to the Board.
shareholder return generated by Amlin has database and the identification of target outperformed both these indices in the past investors in both the UK and the US.
We Shareholder prole five years.
continued proactive communication with Amlins current institutional shareholder base existing and targeted investors through 171 is high quality, with a substantial proportion On 22 December 2008 Amlins shares meetings between investors and the Chief of shares held by supportive long-term entered the FTSE100 index for the first Executive and or Group Finance Director institutional investors.
As shown in the chart time.
However, the shares dropped during the year 2008: 178. on the next page, the proportion owned by out of theFTSE100 index and rejoined In addition to presentations following the US institutions is around 15% compared theFTSE350 index on 22 June 2009.
Preliminary and Interim results, we gave with about 12% for the UK market as a Thisshort-lived sojourn in the FTSE100 presentations to analysts and investors whole.
The proportion held by continental index reflected the volatility of the UK on the subjects of Amlins Approach to European investors is around 5%, which equitymarket at the end of 2008 and Solvency II and Amlin Corporate Insurance.
isinline with the UK market as a whole.
These presentations are webcast, so that all At the year end an estimated 1.1% of the At the year end Amlin was ranked investors can access them simultaneously, Company was owned by directors and staff 116 intheFTSE350 index by market and slide presentations are also made available 2008: 1.4%, including shares held on their capitalisation 2008: 93.
The average on Amlins website.
We also hosted two receptions for analysts and investors attended behalf by trustees of the Employee Share volumeof shares traded daily on the by senior Amlin managers and underwriters.
Ownership Trust and the Share Incentive LondonStock Exchange was 2.1 million Research coverage expanded during the year Plan SIP.
An estimated 15% 2008: 17% or0.42% of total shares, compared with with the number of equity analysts actively of Group employees excluding the new adaily average of 3.0 million or 0.63% covering Amlin increasing from 11 to 18.
