ashmore Group pLC ar 09 GovernanCe Corporate GovernanCe report 30 Corporate governance report Section 1 of the June 2006 Financial th e Groups annual and interim reports the formal schedule of matters reserved Reporting Council FRC Combined and financial statements: for its decision.
Comprehensive Board Code on Corporate Governance the i nterim dividend and recommendation papers, comprising an agenda and 2006 Code applies to listed companies of final dividend: formal reports and briefing papers, are with reporting years beginning on or a nnual budgets and forecast updates: sent to Directors in advance of each after 1 November 2006.
The Company s ignificant capital expenditure: and meeting.
Throughout their period in has adopted the principles of the 2006 e ffectiveness of internal controls.
office, Directors are continually updated Code since its admission to listing by means of written and verbal reports on the London Stock Exchange The roles of the Chairman and Chief from senior executives and external on 17 October 2006 Admission.
Executive Officer are separate, clearly advisors on the Groups business, defined and have been approved by the and the competitive and regulatory The Company has been in compliance Board.
The Chairman is responsible for environments in which it operates, as with the 2006 Code since that date, the effective conduct of the Board, while well as on legal, corporate governance, except where the Directors consider the Chief Executive Officer is responsible corporate social responsibility and other for execution of strategy and for the relevant matters.
that in particular limited circumstances departure is justified.
Such departures day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to its formal business, the In considering non-executive director Board received a number of briefings This report describes the Companys independence, the Board has taken into and presentations from executive corporate governance arrangements, consideration the guidance provided by management during the year covering explaining how it has applied the the 2006 Code.
The Board considers a wide range of topics across the principles of the 2006 Code.
Michael Benson, Nick Land, Jonathan range of the Groups business.
All Asquith and Melda Donnelly to be Directors have access to independent Directors independent.
Nick Land is the Senior professional advice, if required, at the Independent Director.
Companys expense as well as to the The Board of Directors comprises advice and services of the Company two executive Directors and four During the year under review the Secretary.
New directors appointed to non-executive Directors.
The two Group did not fully comply with the the Board will receive advice as to the executive Directors are Mark Coombs, 2006 Code requirement that at least legal and other duties and obligations the Chief Executive Officer, and Graeme half of the Board are independent arising from the role of a director of a Dell, the Group Finance Director.
The directors excluding the Chairman until UK listed company within a full, formal non-executive Directors are Michael the appointment of Jonathan Asquith and tailored induction programme.
The Benson, Chairman, Nick Land, Senior on 1 September 2008 and retirement Company Secretary, under the direction Independent Director, Jonathan Asquith of Jon Moulton on 30 October 2008. of the Chairman, is responsible for and Melda Donnelly.
During the year the Board also instigated maintaining an adequate continuing a formal search process with the education programme, reminding the Michael Benson, Mark Coombs, objective of making an additional Directors of their duties and obligations Graeme Dell and Nick Land served appointment of an independent director on a regular basis, ensuring good as Directors throughout the year.
with relevant experience in order to bring information flows between the Board, Jonathan Asquith joined the Board the Company into compliance with other its committees and management and on 1 September 2008 as a nonaspects of the Code as described assisting with Directors continuing executive Director and Melda Donnelly further below, which has resulted in professional development needs.
joined the Board on 1 July 2009, the appointment of Melda Donnelly also as a non-executive Director.
The Companys nominations committee considers the appointment and The Board has a schedule of matters Biographical details of the Directors are replacement of directors subject to the specifically reserved to it for decision given on page 25. rules set out in the Articles, a summary and approval, which include but are of which is set out below.
not limited to: During the year under review the the Groups long-term commercial Board met six times to review financial objectives and strategy: performance and strategy and to follow major acquisitions, disposals and investments: 1119 Ashmore R&A09 mid.
indd 30 18 9 09 19:39:09 Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 gOverNANCe COrPOrAte gOverNANCe rePOrt 31 the Board comprises two executive Directors and four non-executive Directors.
Powers of the Directors Board and committee attendance Under the Articles, the minimum number of directors shall be two and Subject to the Companys memorandum The table below sets out the number the maximum shall be nine.
Directors of association, the Articles, the of pre-scheduled meetings of the Board may be appointed by the Company Companies Acts and any directions and its committees and individual by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
given by the Company by special attendance by the Directors.
A director appointed by the Board must resolution, the business of the Company offer themself for election at the next is managed by the Board, who may Board committees Annual General Meeting of the Company exercise all powers of the Company, The Board has appointed audit, following their appointment but they are whether relating to the management remuneration and nominations not taken into account in determining the of the business of the Company or not.
committees to assist in the execution directors or the number of directors who of its duties.
are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Annual performance evaluation The directors to retire by rotation must The Board has established a formal All of these committees operate within be those who held office at the time process, led by the Chairman and written terms of reference, which are of the two preceding Annual General assisted by the Company Secretary, for reviewed annually and were updated Meetings and did not retire at either the annual evaluation of the performance by the Board in September 2009. of them or if they have held office with of the Board, its appointed committees The chairman of each committee the Company for a continuous period and each Director, to ensure that they reports regularly to the Board.
of nine years or more at the date of continue to act effectively and efficiently the Annual General Meeting.
The office and to fulfil their respective duties, and Each of the committees is authorised, of director shall be vacated in other to identify any training requirements.
at the Companys expense, to obtain circumstances, including where i that In doing so the Board has concluded external legal or other professional director resigns or is asked to resign: that both the Board and its committees advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
ii they are or have been suffering from are functioning effectively.
Only the members of each committee mental ill health: iii they are absent are entitled to attend its meetings but without permission of the Board from Meetings were held between the others, such as senior management meetings of the Board for six Chairman and each individual Director and external advisors, may be invited consecutive months: iv they become in which issues and developments to attend as appropriate.
bankrupt or compounds with their over the year were discussed and creditors generally: or v they are performance was considered by Current membership of the committees prohibited by law from being a director.
reference to the objectives of the Board is shown in the relevant sections below.
The responses The composition of these committees were collated by the Company Secretary is reviewed annually, taking into and the results and issues raised were consideration the recommendations subsequently discussed by the Board.
The Board also evaluated the Chairmans performance.
Board and committee attendance Nominations Audit remuneration Board committee committee committee total number of meetings between 1 July 2008 and 30 June 2009 6 2 3 1 Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% 100% Mark Coombs 100% Graeme Dell 100% Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% Jon Moulton 100% 100% 100% 100% Jonathan Asquith 100% 100% 100% 100% Notes 1.
Jon Moulton retired from the Board on 30 October 2008 and attendance is calculated up to this date.
Jonathan Asquith was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2009 and attendance is calculated from this date.
Ashmore R&A09 mid n. indd 31 21 9 09 16:55:22 ashmore Group pLC ar 09 GovernanCe Corporate GovernanCe report 32 Corporate governance report continued audit committee The terms of reference for the to be able to raise, in confidence, committee include: matters of possible impropriety, with During the year under review the audit m onitoring the integrity of the financial suitable subsequent follow-up action.
committee comprised the following statements of the Company, any non-executive Directors and was not formal announcements relating to The committee has the authority to seek fully compliant with the Combined the Companys financial performance any information it requires to perform Code as Jon Moulton was not an and any significant financial issues its duties from any employee of the independent director: and judgements contained in them: Company and to obtain outside legal Nick Land Chairman r eviewing the Groups draft annual or other independent professional financial statements and Interim advice as appropriate.
Michael Benson Results statement prior to discussion Jon Moulton retired 30 October 2008 and approval by the Board and Jonathan Asquith The number of committee meetings reviewing the external auditors and their attendance by the Directors appointed 1 September 2008. detailed reports thereon: are set out in the table on page 31.
Following the appointment of Melda r eviewing the external auditors plan Representatives of KPMG Audit Plc, for the audit of the Groups financial Donnelly to the Board on 1 July 2009, the Chief Executive Officer and the statements, receiving and reviewing Group Finance Director attend each Michael Benson has stepped down confirmations of auditor independence as a member.
The audit committee meeting as a matter of practice and approving the terms of and presentations are made by the comprises the following non-executive engagement and proposed fees Directors and is now fully compliant executive management as required.
for the audit: with the requirements of the Combined m aking recommendations to the remuneration committee Code that the committee should Board for a resolution to be put to consist of at least three independent The remuneration committee comprises shareholders to approve the renon-executive directors: three non-executive Directors.
appointment of the external auditors: Jon Moulton was Chairman until his r eviewing the level and amount of Nick Land Chairman retirement from the Board on 30 October external auditor non-audit services: Jonathan Asquith 2008, with Michael Benson and Nick r eviewing managements annual Melda Donnelly.
Land as members who served on the report on the Groups system of committee throughout the year.
Effective internal control and its effectiveness, The Board is satisfied that for the year 1 July 2009 Jonathan Asquith has joined reporting to the Board on the results under review and thereafter Nick Land, the committee as its Chairman.
The of this review and receiving updates Jon Moulton and Jonathan Asquith committee now consists of Jonathan on key risk controls: and had and have recent and relevant Asquith, Michael Benson and Nick Land.
r eviewing the committees terms commercial and financial knowledge of reference, carrying out an annual and experience to satisfy the provisions As Jon Moulton was not an independent performance evaluation exercise of the 2006 Code.
Nick Land, Jon Director and retired on 30 October and noting the satisfactory operation Moulton and Melda Donnelly are 2008, the Group did not comply during of the committee.
chartered accountants and Jonathan the year with the 2006 Code Asquith has previously served as requirement that the remuneration The committee has requested and Chief Financial Officer of Schroders plc committee should consist of at least received reports from management and Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
three independent non-executive to enable it to fulfil its duties under its directors but will now do so from the terms of reference.
A report on the activities of the audit new financial year as a result of the committee is set out on page 38.
The appointment of Jonathan Asquith.
The audit committee also has terms of reference for the committee responsibility for reviewing the take into account the requirements of A report on the activities of the committee Companys arrangements on whistlethe Combined Code 2006 and are is included in the Remuneration report blowing, ensuring that appropriate available for inspection at the registered on pages 39 to 45.
The terms of arrangements are in place for employees office and at the Annual General Meeting reference for the committee take and can also be found on the Company into account the requirements of the website at www.
Combined Code 2006 and are available for inspection at the registered office, at the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on the Company website at www.
indd 32 18 9 09 19:39:12 Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 gOverNANCe COrPOrAte gOverNANCe rePOrt 33 the Company places great importance on communication with its investors.
The terms of reference for the Chairman, Nick Land and Jon Moulton.
committee meetings and their committee include: Jonathan Asquith joined the committee attendance by the Directors are set reviewing the ongoing appropriateness on 1 July 2009.
Michael Benson and out in the table on page 31. and relevance of the remuneration Nick Land served on the committee policy: throughout the year.
relations with shareholders reviewing the design of all share The Company places great importance incentive plans for approval by the The terms of reference for the committee on communication with its investors and Board and shareholders: take into account the requirements aims to keep shareholders informed by ensuring that members of the of the Combined Code 2006 and are means of regular communication with executive management of the available for inspection at the registered institutional shareholders, analysts and Company are provided with office and at the Annual General Meeting the financial press throughout the year.
appropriate incentives to encourage and can also be found on the Company enhanced performance: website at www.
Annual and interim reports and trading making recommendations to the updates are widely distributed to other Board as to the Companys framework The terms of reference for the parties who may have an interest in the or broad policy for the remuneration of committee include: Groups performance.
These documents the Chairman, the executive Directors reviewing the structure, size and are also made available on the and the Company Secretary and to composition including the skills, Companys website where formal determine their total individual knowledge and experience of the Regulatory Information Service remuneration packages including Board and its committees: announcements are also posted.
The bonuses, incentive payments and reviewing annually the time required Chief Executive Officer and Group share options or other share awards: from each non-executive Director, Finance Director make regular reports ensuring that a significant proportion using performance evaluation to to the Board on investor relations and of executive Directors remuneration assess whether the non-executive on specific discussions with major is structured so as to link rewards to Director is giving sufficient shareholders and the Board receives corporate and individual performance: commitment to the role: copies of all research published on and giving full consideration to succession the Company.
ensuring that contractual terms planning in the course of its work, on termination, and any payments taking into account the challenges and The 2009 Annual General Meeting will made, are fair to the individual and the opportunities facing the Company and be attended by all Directors, and the Company, that failure is not rewarded what skills and expertise are needed Chairmen of the audit, nominations and that the duty to mitigate loss on the Board in the future: and and remuneration committees will be is fully recognised.
e nsuring that on appointment to the available to answer questions.
Private Board, non-executive Directors receive investors are encouraged to attend Details of the activities of the a formal letter of appointment setting the Annual General Meeting.
remuneration committee are set out out clearly what is expected of them in the Remuneration report on pages in terms of time commitment, The Senior Independent Director is 39 to 45. committee service and involvement available to shareholders if they have outside Board meetings.
concerns which contact through the The number of committee meetings and normal channels of Chairman, Chief their attendance by the Directors are set During the year the activities of the Executive Officer or Group Finance out in the table on page 31.
In addition, committee have included the Director has failed to resolve or for and in accordance with the terms engagement of external recruitment which such contact is inappropriate.
of reference, the members of the consultants for the purposes of The Company continues to offer committee were also consulted on a reviewing the names of potential major shareholders the opportunity range of issues during the year, including independent non-executive candidates to meet any or all of the Chairman, specific matters related to recruitment.
for appointment to the Board, proposals the Senior Independent Director for rotation and re-election of Directors and any new Directors.
Nominations committee at the Annual General Meeting, discussing the results of the annual The nominations committee comprises The Group will announce via a regulatory performance evaluation exercise three non-executive Directors.
In the information service the number of noting the satisfactory operations period to 30 October 2008 the committee proxy votes cast on resolutions at the of the committee, and reviewing its consisted of Michael Benson as Annual General Meeting and any other terms of reference.
The number of general meetings.
indd 33 18 9 09 19:39:13 ashmore Group pLC ar 09 GovernanCe Corporate GovernanCe report 34 Corporate governance report continued Internal control assessing the impact of the Groups The main features of the Groups internal ongoing activities on its regulatory control system are set out below.
In accordance with the principles of and operational exposures.
The RCC the 2006 Code, the Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system is chaired by the Head of Risk policies Management and Control: the other of internal control and for reviewing its These include: members are the Chief Executive, effectiveness.
Such a system and its c ore values and policies, which review are designed to manage rather the Group Finance Director, the Head together form the Groups high-level than eliminate the risk of failure to of Operations and Client Relationship principles and controls, with which Management, the Head of Compliance, achieve business objectives, and all staff are expected to comply: can only provide reasonable and the Head of Information Technology, p olicies and procedure manuals, not absolute assurance against the Head of Legal and Transaction applicable to all business units, Management and the Group Financial material misstatement or loss.
with requirements for reporting Controller.
Responsibility for risk weaknesses and for monitoring Within the Groups over arching corporate identification is shared amongst these corrective action: senior management personnel, with governance framework, through which a c ode of business conduct, with each such individual being responsible the Board aims to maintain full and procedures for reporting compliance effective control over appropriate strategic, for day-to-day control of risk in their therewith: financial, operational and compliance business area.
a d efined operational framework issues, an internal control framework and organisational structure with has been established, against which There are established policies and appropriate delegation of authority the Company is able to assess the procedures to enable the Board, and accountability: through its regular meetings, to monitor effectiveness of its system of internal a planning framework is maintained the effectiveness of the internal control controls The Groups system of internal which incorporates a Board approved control is embedded within its routine system, which covers all significant strategic plan, with objectives for each identified internal and external strategic, operations, and a strong control culture business unit.
operational, financial, compliance and is combined with clear management responsibility and accountabilities for other risks, including the Groups ability processes individual control.
The internal control to comply with all applicable laws, These include: regulations and clients requirements.
framework provides an ongoing process r egular business reviews of the for identifying, evaluating and managing The Board has continued to receive Company and its subsidiaries are the Groups significant risks, and has regular financial and other management performed by senior management, information related to the control of been in place for the year under review which consider the ongoing effects of expenditure against budget and the and up to the date of approval of the change and the short-, mediumand Annual Report and Accounts.
The making of investments, and for long-term operational requirements: monitoring the Groups business process is regularly reviewed by the q uarterly senior management systems and its performance, and regular Board, and accords with the guidance and controls reviews that are in the document Internal Control: compliance and risk reports.
undertaken by the Group Finance Revised Guidance for Directors on Director with the Head of Compliance, Through the audit committee, the the Combined Code, October 2005 and in which the Chief Executive Board has conducted an annual review Turnbull Guidance published by Officer participates at least annually, the Financial Reporting Council.
and assessment of the effectiveness incorporating the evaluation of the of the internal control system, and potential impact and likelihood of has identified no significant failings The executive Directors oversee identified risks and possible new the key risks and controls and the risk or weaknesses during this review.
risk areas: In conducting this review, the Board has management process on a day-to-day a m atrix of principal risks identifies key considered the periodic reports received basis, and have put in place an business, operational, financial and organisational structure with clearly throughout the year on compliance and compliance risks, and considers the defined lines of responsibility and risk matters, and the Annual Report on likelihood of those risks crystallising internal control processes from the RCC.
Within the The Board is satisfied that appropriate matrix, the inherent risk of each The Groups Risk and Compliance planned actions continue to be effective business activity has been identified, in improving controls as the Group Committee RCC, which meets monthly, and the adequacy and mitigating develops, and its overall assessment is responsible for maintaining a sound effect of existing processes assessed, internal control environment and for of the control framework continues to to determine a current residual risk be satisfactory.
indd 34 18 9 09 19:39:15 Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 gOverNANCe COrPOrAte gOverNANCe rePOrt 35 the groups system of internal control is embedded, with clear management responsibility and accountability.
level for each such activity.
On the priced externally is the responsibility internal control framework described basis that further mitigants may be of the Groups Pricing Methodology above and by the commissioning of employed over time, a target residual Committee PMC, which meets the regular SAS 70 reports.
Due to the risk for each activity after one to two monthly to review the current valuation continuing development of the Group, years has been defined: methodology for each of these during the year the audit Ccommittee Key Risk Indicator KRI statistics investments and to propose an considered the need for an internal that are reported to and analysed updated valuation methodology audit function.
This involved whether to by the RCC.
The KRIs indicate trends where appropriate.
Valuations of the implement an internal or an outsourced in the Groups risk profile, assist in most material assets are outsourced function and the nature and scope of the the reduction of errors and potential to third parties.
work it would undertake, taking account financial losses and seek to prevent an experienced Group compliance of the existing compliance monitoring exposure by proactively dealing with function, whose responsibility is to programmes which were already in a potential risk situation before an ensure that the Group meets its place.
The committee concluded that event actually occurs: regulatory obligations at all times, the best interests of the Group would well-defined procedures governing the and integrates regulatory compliance be served by contracting internal audit appraisal and approval of corporate procedures and best practices.
services through an outsourced model.
investments, including seeding of funds Compliance undertakes an ongoing and purchase of own shares, with compliance monitoring programme Accordingly, with effect from 1 July detailed investment and divestment covering all the relevant areas of the 2009, following a recommendation from approval procedures, incorporating Groups operations, to identify any the committee, the Board approved appropriate levels of authority and breach of compliance with applicable the appointment of Ernst & Young to regular post-investment reviews: legislation and regulation, which undertake this work, reporting to the secure information and includes real-time monitoring of Group Finance Director and to the audit communication systems, capable client mandate requirements.
The committee, and from that date, the of capturing relevant and up-to-date results of the compliance monitoring Group became compliant with the information by relevant personnel: programme are reported to the 2006 Code in that respect.
strong financial controls, maintained RCC in support of the overall risk Corporate social responsibility to ensure accurate accounting for management framework: transactions, appropriate authorisation The Group recognises the importance limits to contain exposures, and verification of corporate social responsibility CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, reliability of data processing and These include: integrity of information generated: accountability and integrity, and believes t he external auditors who are an in-depth annual budget that is that these principles are fundamental engaged to express an opinion on reviewed and approved by the Board, to the Groups operations.
The Group the annual financial statements, and and regularly updated through continues to monitor developments also independently and objectively a formal re-forecasting process: in all relevant areas of CSR, including review the approach of management a monthly management accounts environmental management, employees, to reporting operating results and health and safety, suppliers and the pack presented to Board members financial condition: along with other relevant reports, community to ensure that it meets best t he independent review of annual highlighting actual financial practice and sees CSR as a continually reports by the Groups external evolving process.
performance against budget forecast auditors, pursuant to the Statement and prior year periods: of Auditing Standards No.
70, detailed investment reports that investment type II SAS 70 : are prepared and discussed at each half-yearly updates to the Board, The Group believes that its reputation of the sub-committee meetings of as an ethical, trustworthy provider of through the audit committee, from the Groups investment committee, the Groups external auditors, which investment services is essential to its which take place weekly or monthly include any control matters that have core purpose of helping its clients to depending on investment theme.
come to their attention: build their financial security.
Ashmore Follow-up actions are agreed seeks to establish and maintain and implemented within a strict The Group did not through the year long-term relationships with its clients operational framework: have an internal audit function, given and intermediaries.
The Group believes oversight of the valuation this to be a fundamental pre-requisite the size and nature of the business methodologies used for clients fund and operational model, with the relevant for the growth of the business.
investments that cannot be readily assurances being obtained via the 1119 Ashmore R&A09 mid.
indd 35 18 9 09 19:39:16 ashmore Group pLC ar 09 GovernanCe Corporate GovernanCe report 36 Corporate governance report continued Ashmores Board of Directors seeks Ashmore brand locally by improving within the emerging markets in which to maintain a strong corporate culture the livelihoods of the employees in the Ashmore operates with a view to putting employing high standards of integrity companies where the Group has a something back into the countries and and fair dealing in the conduct of the controlling stake.
Through Ashmores communities in which it invests and firms activities, compliance with both network of local holding companies which contribute to Ashmores income the letter and the spirit of relevant laws and portfolio of investee companies and profitability.
The Foundations and regulations, and standards of Ashmore influences the livelihoods grant-making policy is wide-ranging good market practice in all jurisdictions of approximately 40,000 people.
but has a particular focus on education where the firms business is carried out.
and healthcare, the former in particular The Boards aim is to enable Ashmore Ashmore aims to avoid investing being seen as the best way to help the to demonstrate that the firm is fit and in companies that do not: long-term self-development of third proper to undertake its business, r espect human rights world countries.
to safeguard the legitimate interests c omply with local environmental, of Ashmore clients and protect ethical or social legislation.
Ashmore employs 142 people in Ashmore does not invest in companies six countries worldwide.
Ashmores Social, ethical and environmental SEE that manufacture or trade arms.
people have always been its most criteria tend to be focused primarily on important asset, at the heart of equity investing because of the influence Ashmore also aims to ensure that any everything it does.
Ashmore has many which shareholder interests are able to investments which it makes comply talented people and it remains a priority exert on the management of a particular with the relevant industry standards and to develop, manage and retain this company.
Ashmores exposure to equity best practice, treat their employees fairly, talent in order to deliver the potential investments amounts to less than have active community programmes of the organisation.
Ashmore wants 18 per cent of total assets under and operate with sensitivity to the to be an employer which the most management, whereas the majority of environment.
Ashmore has made talented people aspire to join wherever assets are invested in either external investments in a number of renewable it operates.
debt the majority of which is Sovereign energy projects in different countries or local currency debt.
In the case of including hydro-electricity, geothermal Ashmore seeks to ensure that its external debt investments, the Groups energy and sugar-based ethanol workforce reflects, as far as practicable, ability to have an influence is generally production, which reflects its overall the diversity of the many communities limited to a decision whether or not approach to combining ethical investing in which it is located.
Ashmore also to invest: however, at a country level with sound business practice on behalf recognises the diverse needs of Ashmore believes that it may be able of clients.
its employees in managing the to exert an influence through dialogue responsibilities of their work and with governments and central banks.
Additionally, Ashmore funds and personal lives, and believes that segregated accounts each have a achieving an effective balance in these Ashmores public equities business is a specific investment mandate which sets areas is beneficial to both the Company small part of its overall business and its out the parameters for investment which and the individual.
shareholdings will never be large enough may include requirements to screen for to have an influence over the policies geographic, sector and stock-specific Ashmore encourages employees to of management in these companies.
Stock-specific restrictions act ethically and to clearly uphold the may include securities which meet standards of practice which its clients Ashmores Special Situations business clients own CSR criteria.
It also means invariably involves clients taking ensuring that its employees understand significant controlling stakes in investee the ashmore Foundation the strategic aims and objectives of the companies and in such circumstances Consistent with the Groups Group and are clear about their role Ashmore is in a position to positively commitment to responsible corporate in achieving them.
engage with the management of these citizenship, the Ashmore Foundation companies.
In many cases Ashmore was created in 2008 and is funded by The Group recognises that the believes it to be beneficial to its investors financial contributions from employees involvement of its employees is key to be proactive in promoting the of the Group.
The Foundation reflects to the future success of the business Ashmores overall philosophy that it can and adopts a practice of keeping make a difference and seeks to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes 1119 Ashmore R&A09 mid.
indd 36 18 9 09 19:39:17 Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 gOverNANCe COrPOrAte gOverNANCe rePOrt 37 Ashmore workforce by location % Ashmore seeks to ensure 1 uK 69 that its workforce reflects 6 5 4 2 turkey 11 the diversity of the many 3 3 india 9 communities in which 4 usA 5 it operates.
2 5 Brazil 5 6 singapore 1 1 employees informed on significant set out by its policies and procedures matters affecting them, via email and and to providing training as necessary.
in meetings arranged for the purpose.
The Group has consistently operated environment a remuneration strategy that recognises As an investment manager, Ashmore both corporate and individual has a limited direct impact upon performance.
the environment and there are few environmental risks associated with the The Group is also committed to Groups activities.
Ashmore moved into following good practice in employment its premises at 61 Aldwych, London in matters, recognising the part this plays May 2008 and occupies a single floor in attracting and retaining staff.
The of approximately 19,000 square feet Group promotes the importance of high in a nine-storey multi-tenanted building.
ethical standards to all employees and staff have the opportunity to voice any As part of its ongoing commitment to concerns they may have, either direct the environment, Ashmore throughout with management or on a confidential its operations has adopted policies basis via the whistle-blowing process.
and programmes to promote energy conservation and the avoidance of equal opportunities waste through a number of initiatives, The Group is committed to ensuring that such as the recycling of paper, glass all employees are treated fairly and with and other waste and the use of green dignity and respect.
Electricity usage is separately is reflected in the Staff Handbook that monitored by floor with renewable all employees receive on joining.
energy accounting for a minimum of 10 per cent of supply.
Energy-efficient The policies and practices in place lighting is installed in the building with within the Group to deter acts of sensors which turn lights off when no harassment and discrimination are movement is detected.
has received an Energy Performance Certificate with an Asset Rating of 98.
It is the Groups policy that no employee shall be treated less favourably on the Ashmore endeavours to make grounds of their sex, sexual orientation, maximum use of available technology race, religion, nationality or marital status such as video conferencing: however, or on the grounds of disability.
This its business model as an investor in policy applies, without limitation, to emerging markets inevitably requires promotion, training, placement, transfer, that its investment professionals and dismissal, remuneration, grievance and other members of staff travel frequently disciplinary procedures and decisions.
to these countries to investigate This policy also applies to persons and monitor opportunities.
from outside the workplace and the treatment of contract workers.
Ashmore has published a separate Corporate Responsibility Report health and safety which can be found on its website at www.
The Group has in place a global health and safety policy which can By order of the Board be accessed by all staff via an internal database.
The aim of this policy is to Michael Perman provide both staff and visitors with a Company Secretary safe and healthy working environment.
The Group is committed to adhering to 14 September 2009 the high standards of health and safety 1119 Ashmore R&A09 mid.
