Governance 93 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Nomination committee report Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information This report provides details of the role of the Nomination During the year, the Board accepted the Committees Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
recommendations that Andrea Moneta, Patrick Regan, Michael The main purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board Hawker and Leslie Van fide Walle join the Board.
Andrea Moneta by keeping the composition of the Board under review and and Patrick Regan were appointed as executive directors of the conducting a rigorous and transparent process when making Board, with Patrick Regan replacing Philip Scott as Chief or renewing appointments of directors to the Board.
It also Financial Officer and Andrea Monetas appointment increasing advises the Board on issues of directors conflicts of interest and the number of executive directors to four.
Leslie Van fide Walle independence.
The full terms of reference for the Committee was appointed as a new non-executive director from 6 May can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, and 2009 and Michael Hawkers appointment as a non-executive are also available from the Group Company Secretary.
director took effect from 1 January 2010.
In respect of Mr Van The following directors served on the Committee during fide Walles and Mr Hawkers appointments, the Committee the year: engaged a search agency to help it identify suitable candidates with the skills and capabilities required and to assist with the Period preparation of an interview list.
Member From To In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board Lord Sharman Chairman 25 January 2006 To date undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees Nikesh Arora 29 July 2008 5 August 2009 during the year, including the Nomination Committee.
Mary Francis 2 December 2009 To date This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on Richard Goeltz 29 July 2008 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date 3 March 2010.
Russell Walls 23 January 2007 To date The Nomination Committee notes that the Combined Code does not preclude the Group Lord Sharman of Redlynch Chief Executive from membership of the Committee and the Committee believes that his Chairman, Nomination Committee input is essential and invaluable in its discussions and therefore important that this is obtained through his membership of the Committee.
Any concern about this will be allayed by the predominant membership of independent non-executive directors on the Committee.
The Committee met on six occasions in 2009 and the members attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 88.
Nikesh Arora ceased to be a member of the Committee on 5 August 2009 following his resignation from the Board due to his relocation to the US.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conflicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the Company.
The Committee monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the Board.
The results of these reviews are important when the Board considers succession planning and the re-election of directors.
Members of the Committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
During 2009 the Committee reviewed the senior management pool to identify potential Executive Committee members.
