Governance 87 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Corporate governance report Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information committee meetings, directors receive regular reports on the The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Groups financial position, risk management, regulatory The Company is aware of the changing regulatory environment compliance, key business operations and other material issues.
following the recent economic downturn.
This has led to the Directors are fully briefed in advance of Board and committee review of a number of regulations and corporate governance meetings on all matters to be discussed.
The Company will aim to comply fully with any Secretary is responsible for following Board procedures and resulting regulatory changes and best practice guidelines, where advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance it does not already do so.
All directors have access to his advice and services.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out The Board has adopted a procedure whereby directors standards of good practice in the form of principles and may, in the performance of their duties, seek independent provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled professional advice at the Companys expense if considered to follow good governance practice.
During the year the members of the Remuneration Authority FSA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, Committee sought independent advice from Hewitt New Bridge in relation to section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have Street Consultants on issues surrounding senior executive applied its principles and whether they have complied with remuneration.
The Audit Committee and the Risk and its provisions throughout the accounting year.
Where the Regulatory Committee also appointed Keith Nicholson, a former provisions have not been complied with companies must partner at KPMG LLP, to provide advisory services.
provide an explanation for this.
It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully The Directors compliant throughout the accounting period with the provisions The Board currently comprises the Chairman, eight independent set down in section 1 of the Combined Code, apart from a non-executive directors and four executive directors.
Each nonperiod during the year when the majority of the members of the executive director serves for a fixed term not exceeding three Nomination Committee were not independent non-executive years that may be renewed by mutual agreement.
This was due to the resignation of Nikesh Arora, a the Board being satisfied with a directors performance, non-executive director, who resigned from the Board on independence and commitment, there is no specified limit 5 August 2009 following his relocation to the United States regarding the number of terms a director may serve.
Mary Francis was appointed to the Committee on director is required to be elected by shareholders at the Annual 2 December 2009 and the Company is once again in General Meeting following his her appointment by the Board compliance with this aspect of the Combined Code.
This report and to be re-elected at least once every three years.
Any nonsets out details of how the Company has applied the principles executive director who has served on the Board for nine years and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during or more is required to submit himself herself for re-election 2009.
Further information on the Combined Code can be found annually.
The Boards policy is to appoint and retain nonon the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
uk executive directors, who can apply their wider knowledge and experiences to their understanding of the Aviva Group, and to The Board review and refresh regularly the skills and experience the Board The directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that requires through a programme of rotational retirement.
In the Company is appropriately managed and that it achieves its addition to the strengths of experience, diversity and an objectives.
It meets regularly to determine the Companys international perspective, the Board also seeks to comply with strategic direction, to review the Companys operating and the requirements of the Combined Code on the independence financial performance and to provide oversight that the of directors.
The process for appointing new directors is Company is adequately resourced and effectively controlled.
conducted by the Nomination Committee whose report, The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out in its terms including a description of its duties, is set out on page 93. of reference that address a wide range of corporate governance The Combined Code requires that at least half the Board, issues and list those items that are specifically reserved for excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent nondecision by the Board.
Matters requiring Board approval include: executive directors as determined by the Board.
The Nomination Group strategy and business plans: Committee performs an annual review of directors interests in Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside which all potential or perceived conflicts, including time delegated limits: commitments, length of service and other issues relevant to Financial reporting and controls: their independence, are considered.
It is the Boards view that Capital structure: an independent non-executive director also needs to be able to Dividend policy: present an objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to Shareholder documentation: management, drawing on his her wider experiences to question The constitution of Board committees: and assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary defend their Key business policies, including the remuneration policy.
To be effective, an independent director needs to acquire a sound understanding of the industry and the The full terms of reference for the Board are available from the Company so as to be able to evaluate properly the information Group Company Secretary.
Matters that are not specifically provided.
Having considered the matter carefully the Board is of reserved for the Board and its committees under its terms of the opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are reference, or for shareholders in general meeting, are delegated independent and free from any relationship or circumstances to the Group Chief Executive.
The Boards terms of reference that could affect, or appear to affect, their independent also set out those matters that must be reported to the Board, judgement.
Accordingly, over half of the Board members, such as significant litigation or material regulatory breaches, and excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive cover how matters requiring consideration by the Board that directors.
Each of the directors being proposed for re-election at arise between scheduled meetings should be dealt with.
the 2010 Annual General Meeting has been subject to a formal The Board and its committees operate in line with work performance evaluation and took part in a peer evaluation plans agreed prior to the start of each year.
At Board and 88 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 review during 2009.
Details of the directors standing for re Training and development election at this years Annual General Meeting are set out in the The Board believes strongly in the development of all its Notice of Meeting.
Biographical details of all the directors are employees and directors and it is a requirement of each set out on pages 80 to 81. directors appointment that they commit to continue their development.
The form that this development takes is subject The Chairman and Group Chief Executive to individual directors requirements and the quality and The respective roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive relevance of the training available.
are set out in the Boards terms of reference.
The Chairmans During the year, directors attended a number of internal priority is the leadership of the Board and the Group Chief and external courses including an update on the macro Executives priority is the management of the Company.
The economic outlook at a Board strategy session, and seminars on Chairmans commitment to the Company is two to three days life accounting and Solvency II for members of the Audit and per week and his main interests outside the Company are set Risk and Regulatory Committees.
New members of the out in his biographical details on page 80.
Corporate Responsibility Committee had an induction on the Companys Corporate Responsibility Programme and two Senior Independent Director members of the Committee participated in a Climate Change Under the Combined Code the Board appoints one of the nonforum in Hong Kong.
Training sessions have also been built into executive directors to act as Senior Independent Director.
The the Boards and committees work plans for 2010.
The Board main responsibility of the Senior Independent Director is to be made visits to the Groups businesses located in the UK, available to shareholders should they have concerns that they Singapore, Korea and China during the year to gain a closer have been unable to resolve through normal channels, or when understanding of their operations.
such channels would be inappropriate.
The Senior Independent The Board has a comprehensive induction programme Director is also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on consisting of several separate sessions which take place over the Chairmans performance and the appointment of a new a number of months at times convenient for the director.
Richard Goeltz has served as the The sessions include presentations from key members of senior Senior Independent Director since January 2009. management, visits to the Groups main operating businesses, and meetings with the external auditor and one of the Board effectiveness Companys corporate brokers.
Further or follow-up meetings are arranged where a director requires a deeper understanding The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the on a particular issue.
Group and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in order to assess how well the Board, its committees, Directors attendance the directors and the Chairman are performing.
The aim is to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the the Groups performance.
The process is led by the Chairman Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote and supported by the Group Company Secretary.
This year the sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
evaluation was carried out by Boardroom Review, an The attendance of the directors at the Board and committee independent consultancy, and interviews were conducted with meetings held in 2009 was as follows: each Board member.
All directors also completed a questionnaire evaluating the Board and committees processes, Board and Board committee attendance 2009 their effectiveness and where improvements may be considered.
Corporate Risk and Audit Responsibility Nomination Regulatory Remuneration Boardroom Review prepared a report based on the interviews Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee with the directors and the questionnaire circulated and the Number of meetings held 15 9 4 6 6 8 # overall results of the evaluation were presented to and reviewed Mary Francis 13 9 6 8 by the Board in January 2010.
Richard Goeltz 15 9 6 Euleen Goh 15 9 3 The performance of the Chairman is also included in the Mark Hodges 14 above process and takes into account the views of both the Andrea Moneta appointed executive and non-executive directors.
The Chairmans 29 September 2009 4 evaluation is managed by the Senior Independent Director who Andrew Moss 14 3 6 provides feedback to the Chairman.
As part of the Chairmans Carole Piwnica 13 4 7 evaluation the non-executive directors meet separately under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director.
The Board Lord Sharman 15 4 6 evaluation process assesses the executive directors in their Leslie Van fide Walle capacities as directors of the Company.
They are evaluated in appointed 6 May 2009 7 2 1 Russell Walls 14 9 6 6 respect of their executive duties through a separate process Scott Wheway 12 3 8 whereby the Chairman and the non-executive directors assess Former directors the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Executive Nikesh Arora resigned assesses the executive directors.
5 August 2009 4 1 2 Wim Dik retired 29 April Following this comprehensive review, the directors have 2009 5 1 2 concluded that the Board and its committees operate effectively Philip Scott retired 26 13 and have agreed actions in respect of certain processes January 2010 identified for improvement.
Additionally, the Chairman has There were 11 scheduled Board meetings during 2009 and four additional meetings.
Indicates not a member of that committee.
concluded that each director contributes effectively and # Became a member of the Nomination Committee on 2 December 2009.
Became a member of the Risk and Regulatory Committee and the Remuneration Committee demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
Governance 89 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information During 2009, the Chairman and the non-executive directors met material controls, including financial, operational and in the absence of the executive directors and the non-executive compliance controls and risk management systems'.
directors met in the absence of the Chairman, including one The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining the meeting chaired by the Senior Independent Director in order system of internal control for the Group and monitoring its to appraise the Chairmans performance.
During the year, the Audit Committee, with the Risk and Regulatory Committee, on behalf of the Board, have Board committees regularly review the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control.
The necessary actions have been and are being The Board has established the following standing committees taken to remedy significant failings and weaknesses identified to oversee and debate important issues of policy and oversight from these reviews.
The Audit Committee and the Risk and outside the main Board meetings: Regulatory Committee monitor resolution of any weaknesses to Audit Committee: a satisfactory conclusion.
In addition, the Company meets the Corporate Responsibility Committee: Securities and Exchange Commission Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Nomination Committee: requirements for new registrants.
Risk and Regulatory Committee: and The principal features of the system of internal control and Remuneration Committee.
methods by which the Board satisfies itself that this system operates effectively are set out below.
Throughout the year the chairman of each committee provided the Board with a summary of the key issues considered at the Control environment meetings of the committees and the minutes of the meetings were circulated to the Board.
The committees operate within The Group operates a three lines of defence model with defined terms of reference which are available on the management as the first line, having overall accountabilty for Companys website, www.
com, or from the Group the management of all risks relevant to the Groups business.
Board committees are Management is therefore responsible for designing, authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they implementing and monitoring the operation of the system of deem necessary in the furtherance of their duties at the internal control and for providing assurance to the Executive Companys expense.
Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Risk and Regulatory Reports of the committee chairmen are set out on pages 93 Committee, as relevant, that it has done so.
The Group Risk and Compliance functions operate as the second line of defence and are accountable for providing objective Conflicts of interest challenge and oversight of the business management of all risk through the system of internal control.
The functions operate In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of globally with teams in all major regions and business units.
Association now allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts Group Audit operates as the third line of defence and is of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or accountable for providing reliable independent assurance to the conditions as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of Audit and Risk and Regulatory Committees, local audit interest can only be made by non-conflicted directors those committees, Board members and the Executive Committee of who have no interest in the matter being considered and in the Group on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of making such decision the directors must act in a way they internal control.
consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Board has established a procedure Governance and Oversight Committee Structure whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought The Board delegates oversight in relation to risk management prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new conflict and internal control to the following committees: arises.
During 2009 this procedure operated effectively.
Audit Committee: and Risk and Regulatory Committee Internal Control The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board A companys system of internal control plays a key role in the in discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the management of risks that may impact the fulfilment of its Company's financial statements and the effectiveness of objectives.
Internal control facilitates effective and efficient the system of internal financial control and monitoring the operations, the development of robust and reliable internal and effectiveness, performance and objectivity of the internal external reporting and compliance with laws and regulations.
A system of internal control reduces but cannot eliminate The Risk and Regulatory Committee, working closely with the possibility of errors, control circumvention, manual override, the Audit Committee, assists the Board in providing direction poor decision making or the impact of unforeseen and oversight around the Groups risk and regulatory policies circumstances.
As such, a sound system of internal control and procedures, including those relating to compliance, risk provides reasonable but not absolute assurance over material management, financial malpractice and internal controls.
misstatements or losses or that a company will not be hindered These Committees have clearly defined terms of reference in achieving its business objectives.
and full reports for these Committees are set out on pages As part of the Financial Reporting Councils Internal 94 to 97.
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Oversight of the risk management framework and system Board should maintain a sound system of internal control to of internal control is performed on behalf of the Board by the safeguard shareholders investment and the companys assets.
Risk and Regulatory Committee working with the Audit In addition, as part of their responsibilities 'The Directors should, Committee.
These Committees receive reporting over risk at least annually, conduct a review of the effectiveness of the management and internal control procedures and consider Group's system of internal control and should report to where relevant whether appropriate actions have been shareholders that they have done so.
The review should cover all 90 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 undertaken as well as monitoring the completion of any Group Management in conjunction with the Group Risk function level actions to a satisfactory conclusion.
monitors the risk profile of business units, regions and the Group on a regular basis.
On a quarterly basis, risk reports, Control activities setting the risk profiles, risk exposures outside Group risk appetite and action plans within financial, operational, A formal policy framework has been rolled out across the compliance and strategic risk categories, are reported by the Group, which sets out and governs minimum standards around Group risk function.
A consolidated Group wide risk profile the management of financial and non-financial risks and the including residual risk levels and action plans are considered Groups approach to internal controls.
by the Executive Committee and the Risk and Regulatory Compliance with the policy framework is regularly assessed Committee.
Regional executive committees and management and reported upon on a quarterly basis.
Such reporting includes receive and similarly consider local risk reporting.
any moves outside the Groups risk appetite and tolerance and Where significant risks outside Group risk appetite are identified any emerging issues.
Appropriate action plans are developed an immediate escalation process is in place.
Such significant and undertaken where such moves are identified.
risks are reported by the Chief Risk Officer to the Executive In addition to the regular reporting, a six monthly Group Committee, the Risk and Regulatory Committee and Audit policy framework compliance management certification process Committee, along with any proposed mitigating actions.
Any risks, control weaknesses, or non-compliance The risk management process has been in place for the year with the Group policy framework or local delegation of under review and up to the date of approval of the annual authority must be highlighted as part of this process.
Internal Controls over financial reporting Internal audit A Group Reporting Manual including International Financial The Groups internal audit function provides independent Reporting Standards IFRS and Market Consistent Embedded assurance to management on the effectiveness of the internal Value MCEV requirements has been defined and rolled out control systems and, the adequacy of these systems to manage across the Group.
A Financial Reporting Control Framework business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
FRCF is in place across the Group.
FRCF relates to the The internal audit function also provides objective independent preparation of reliable financial reporting and preparation of assurance on risk and control to both the Audit Committee and local and consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Risk and Regulatory Committee.
FRCF also allows compliance with the Throughout 2009, the internal audit function through the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Chief Audit Officer provided quarterly reporting on issues arising The FRCF process follows a risk based approach, with and the status of action items to the Audit Committee and Risk management identification, assessment documentation and and Regulatory Committee.
Similar reporting is undertaken on a testing, remediation as required, reporting and certification regional and business unit basis to local executive management over key financial reporting related controls.
Management and local audit committees.
The effectiveness of the Groups quality assurance procedures over the application of the FRCF internal audit function is reviewed annually by the Audit process and FRCF controls are undertaken regularly.
of the FRCF process are signed off by business unit and regional Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers and at a Group Share capital and control level by the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Disclosure Committee, which has the role of overseeing The information required to be provided by the directors the design and effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls, pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be for both financial and non-financial information, evaluates the found on page 83 of the Directors report.
Groups disclosure controls and reviews and endorses the Communication with shareholders Groups key periodic external reports including the consolidated financial statements.
This Committee is chaired by the Chief The Company places considerable importance on Financial Officer and reports to the Audit Committee and communication with shareholders and engages with them on Executive Committee.
A Group Technical Committee, reporting a wide range of issues.
to the Disclosure Committee is in place, which presides over The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and significant technical matters, reviewing technical decisions meetings between the executive directors and institutional including key judgements, issues and application of investors, fund managers and analysts.
wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed within the Risk Management constraints of information already made public.
An Enterprise wide Risk Management Framework ERMF, The Companys investor relations department is dedicated designed to identify, evaluate, manage and monitor significant to facilitating communication with institutional investors.
risks to the achievement of business objectives is in place and The directors consider it important to understand the views of embedded throughout the Group.
The Group Risk function shareholders and, in particular, any issues which concern them.
facilitates the implementation of the risk management The Board receives reports on matters that have been raised framework, with management owning the management and with management at the regular meetings held with the monitoring of risks.
The Group Risk function assesses and Companys major investors.
During the year the Chairman and reports significant risks identified across the Group and the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the major corresponding action plans to the Executive Committee, institutional investors and attended investor meetings with the Risk and Regulatory Committee and Audit Committee.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is A company's objectives, its internal organisation and the available to meet with major investors to discuss any areas of concern that cannot be resolved through normal channels of environment in which it operates are continually evolving and, as a result, the risks it faces are continually changing.
investor communication, and arrangements can be made to Governance 91 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information meet with the Senior Independent Director through the Group two subsidiaries, General Accident plc and RAC plc.
Similarly, arrangements can be made for exercises, which were largely successful, related to shareholders major investors to meet with newly appointed directors.
In who have had dividend payments returned and unclaimed, and addition, the Board consults with shareholders in connection dissentient shareholders who did not accept takeover offers with specific issues where it considers appropriate.
when the Company acquired the subsidiaries.
The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private As at 31 December 2009 the response rate across all three shareholders and, on its behalf, the Group Company Secretary programmes ranged between 19% and 58%.
oversees communication with this group of investors.
The Company has provided a dedicated email address to which Aviva Investors questions can be sent, in addition to the facility on the Aviva Investors, the Groups core asset management company, Companys website and a freepost address, which are all believes that good governance plays an important role in highlighted in the shareholder information section of the Notice protecting and enhancing shareholder value.
In keeping with of Meeting.
These can be used by shareholders to put relevant the Groups values, Aviva Investors looks to act as a responsible questions to the directors.
These are considered to be investor, monitors the governance of the companies in which particularly helpful for those shareholders who are unable to it invests and seeks to maintain an effective dialogue and attend the meeting.
Written responses are provided through a engagement with companies on matters which may affect the brochure containing answers to the most frequently asked future performance of those companies.
questions, which is also placed on the Companys website, Aviva Investors maintains a detailed Corporate Governance www.
All material information reported to the and Voting Policy as part of its investment strategy, which regulatory news service is simultaneously published on the underpins its approach to engaging and voting at company Companys website, affording all shareholders full access to general meetings.
The policy encompasses social, environmental Company announcements.
and ethical issues and is applied pragmatically after careful The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions consideration of all relevant information.
In addition, Aviva within the Companies Act 2006 allowing communications to Investors makes detailed voting reports available to clients, as be made electronically to shareholders where they have not well as providing some summary reporting on its website, requested hard copy documentation.
As a result, the Companys www.
website has become the primary method of communication for the majority of its shareholders.
Details of the information US Listing requirements available for shareholders on the website can be found in The Company was admitted to the NYSE on 20 October 2009 shareholder information on pages 323 to 324 and the and its ordinary shares are traded as American Depositary Shareholder Services section of the website at Shares.
As a foreign company listed on the NYSE, the Company www.
is required to comply with the NYSE corporate governance rules The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a to the extent that these rules apply to foreign private issuers valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with private such as the Company.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company shareholders.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the is therefore required to comply with NYSE Rule 303A.
11 by Combined Code as it relates to voting, the separation of making a disclosure of the differences between the Companys resolutions and the attendance of Board committee chairmen.
corporate governance practices and the NYSE corporate Whenever possible, all directors attend the Annual General governance rules applicable to US companies listed on the Meeting and shareholders are invited to ask questions during NYSE.
These differences are summarised below: the meeting and have an opportunity to meet with the directors Independence criteria for directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, The Company will also ensure that it continues to provide independent directors must form the majority of the board of shareholders with the right to ask questions at meetings, which directors.
The Combined Code requires that at least half the will ensure compliance with the recently enacted Companies Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009.
In line with the non-executive directors, as determined by the Board.
The NYSE Combined Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, listing rules for US companies also state that a director cannot including votes withheld, are made available on request and are qualify as independent unless the Board affirmatively determines placed on the Companys website following the meeting.
that the director has no material relationship with the company, The Companys annual report and accounts and annual and the NYSE rules prescribe a list of specific factors and tests review, together with the Companys half-year report, interim that US companies must use for determining independence.
management statements, 20F document for filings with the The Combined Code sets out its own criteria that may be United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and relevant to the independence determination, but permits the other public announcements, are designed to present a Board to conclude affirmative independence notwithstanding balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities the existence of relationships or circumstances which may and prospects and are available on the Companys website, appear relevant to its determination, so long as it shall state www.
The Chairmans statement, Group Chief its reasons.
Executives review, and Performance Review provide an assessment of the Groups affairs and they will be supported Non-Executive Director Meetings by a presentation to be made at the Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, the non-management directors of each listed company must meet at regularly Shareholder Tracing Programmes scheduled executive sessions without management and, if that group includes directors who are not independent, listed During the year, the Company undertook three shareholder tracing programmes in order to identify and locate shareholders companies should at least once a year schedule an executive session including only independent directors.
Under the with unclaimed payments.
The exercises were conducted by professional tracing agencies on behalf of the Company and 92 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Combined Code, the Chairman and non-executive directors The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting must meet separately to assess the executive directors.
records, which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Company Committees and the Group.
They are also ultimately responsible for the Under NYSE standards, US companies are required to have a systems of internal control maintained by the Group for nominating corporate governance committee.
In addition to safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for identifying individuals qualified to become Board members, this the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
committee must develop and recommend to the Board a set of Further details of the systems of internal controls maintained by corporate governance principles.
The Companys Nomination the Group are more fully described on pages 89 and 90.
Committees terms of reference do not require the Committee to develop and recommend corporate governance principles for Directors responsibility statement pursuant to the the Company.
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The directors confirm that, to the best of each persons NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt and knowledge: disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, a the Group and Company financial statements in this report, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as the code for directors or executive officers.
While the Company adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting does not strictly follow this NYSE standard applicable to US Interpretations Committees interpretation and those parts of companies, it is committed to ensuring that its business is the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting conducted in all respects according to rigorous ethical, under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, professional and legal standards.
The Company has adopted financial position and results of the Company and of the a Business Ethics Code to which all employees are bound and Group taken as a whole: and a Code of Ethics for Senior Management to comply with the b the Directors report includes a fair review of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. development and performance of the business and the Shareholder Approval of Equity-Compensation Plans position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, Under the NYSE listing standards, shareholders must be given together with a description of the principal risks and the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and uncertainties that they face.
material revisions to those plans.
Under the Combined Code, shareholder approval is also necessary for certain equityBy order of the Board compensation plans and significant changes thereto, subject to certain exceptions.
The Combined Code does not provide a Andrew Moss Patrick Regan detailed definition or explanation of what are considered to be Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer significant changes, in contrast to the detailed definition of 3 March 2010 material revisions provided by the NYSE.
Going concern Directors responsibilities The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely The directors are required to prepare accounts for each to affect its future development, performance and position are accounting period that comply with the relevant provisions of set out in the Overview on pages 2 to 8 and the Performance the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Review on pages 9 to 66.
The Performance Review includes Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and sections on Group Performance pages 10 to 56, Capital which present fairly the financial position, financial performance Management pages 61 to 63 and Risk Management pages 56 and cash flows of the Company and the Group at the end of to 59.
In addition, the financial pages include notes on the the accounting period.
A fair presentation of the financial Groups borrowings note 48 : its contingent liabilities and other statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to: risk factors note 51 : its capital structure and position notes 54 select suitable accounting policies and verify that they are and 55 : management of its risks including market, credit and applied consistently in preparing the accounts, on a going liquidity risk note 56 : and derivative financial instruments concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that note 57. the Company and the Group will continue in business: The Group has considerable financial resources together present information, including accounting policies, in a with a diversified business model, with a spread of business and manner that is relevant, reliable, comparable and geographical reach.
As a consequence, the directors believe that understandable: the Group is well placed to manage its business risks provide additional disclosures when compliance with the successfully.
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable to understand the impact of particular transactions, other expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have events and conditions on the Company and the Groups adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the financial position and financial performance: and foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the state that the Company and the Group have complied with going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
applicable IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
