94 Aviva plc Audit committee report Annual Report and Accounts 2009 This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee reviews the Companys overall internal controls and risk and the work it has undertaken during the year.
of the Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its The Committee receives reports from the external auditor responsibilities for the integrity of the Group and Companys and, at all scheduled meetings, holds discussions with both the financial statements, the assessment of the effectiveness of the Chief Audit Officer and external auditors in the absence of systems of internal financial controls and monitoring the management.
The chairman of the Committee reports to the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and auditors.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of found on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also the Committee.
available from the Group Company Secretary.
During the year, the Committee was integrally involved in The following independent non-executive directors, served the SEC registration and NYSE listing of the Company and on the Committee during the year: received regular updates on progress of the project.
The Committee reviewed and approved the registration document Period and the Companys financial reporting control framework Member From To was developed to ensure compliance with the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
This included ensuring all the risks Russell Walls Chairman 1 July 2004 To date Mary Francis 1 January 2007 To date associated with the project were understood and within Richard Goeltz 1 July 2004 To date risk appetite.
Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date The Committee held two joint meetings with the Risk and Regulatory Committee and one with the members of the The Committee met on nine occasions in 2009 and the business unit audit committees in the Asia Pacific region.
members attendance record is set out in the Corporate This meeting allowed the Committee to gain a deeper Governance report on page 88.
In addition, the Committee held understanding of the relevant local issues and assess the separate meetings with members of senior management for the effectiveness of the systems of internal financial controls and purpose of induction and training.
The Group Company the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
Russell Walls, a Fellow Chartered Certified Accountant, is Each of the Groups major business units has an audit a former group finance director of BAA plc, Wellcome plc and committee that provides an oversight role for its business.
Richard Goeltz is a former chief financial The Chief Audit Officer reviews the papers and minutes from officer of American Express Company and NatWest Group plc these committees and brings all significant matters to the and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board.
The Chief Audit Officer also attends Euleen Goh, a Chartered Accountant and member of the local audit committee meetings on a regular basis and reports Chartered Institute of Taxation, is a former financial controller of back on the effectiveness of these local committees to the Pontiac Land and chief executive of Standard Chartered Bank, Committee.
In addition, during 2009 the members of the Singapore.
The Board is satisfied that these directors have recent Committee attended several local audit committee meetings, and relevant financial experience.
The Group Chief Executive, including those in Aviva USA, Aviva UK Life, Aviva UKGI, Aviva Chief Financial Officer, Chief Audit Officer, Chief Accounting Investors and the Europe Region Oversight Committee.
This Officer, Chief Risk Officer and the external auditor normally programme of attendance at local audit committee meetings attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
Other will continue during 2010. members of senior management are also invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
In performing its duties, the Internal audit Committee has access to the services of the Chief Audit Officer, The Groups internal audit function reports to management on the Group Company Secretary and external professional the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal controls, advisers.
During 2009 the Committee appointed Keith the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to Nicholson, a former partner at KPMG LLP, as an external adviser safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
The internal audit to the Committee.
function is fully centralised and each country region head has a The Committee follows an agreed annual work plan.
It full reporting line to the Chief Audit Officer with the exception reviews, with members of management and the internal and of Delta Lloyd.
The Chief Audit Officer reports to the Group external auditors, the Companys financial announcements Chief Executive and to the chairman of the Group Audit including the annual report and accounts to shareholders and Committee.
Through the Chief Audit Officer, the internal audit associated documentation.
It places particular emphasis on their function provides objective assurance on risks and controls to fair presentation and the reasonableness of the judgemental the Committee.
The plans, the level of resources, the budget of factors and appropriateness of significant accounting policies the internal audit function and the remuneration of the Chief used in their preparation.
At each meeting, the Committee Audit Officer are reviewed and approved at least annually by receives a report from the Chief Audit Officer concerning the the Committee, which also undertakes an annual review of the Companys systems of internal financial control, including any effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function against significant new issues and actions taken on previously reported guidance criteria provided by the Institute of Chartered issues.
The Committee also reviews, approves and monitors Accountants in England and Wales and by the Institute of the annual work plan for the Groups internal audit function.
Every five years the review is performed Twice each year, the Committee receives reports on the by an independent party as required by the IIA standards.
adequacy of the Groups life assurance and general insurance The last independent review was performed in 2008. reserves.
The Committee reports to the Board regarding the The continuing deteriorating economic and market effectiveness of the Groups overall systems of internal environment required even greater attention to internal controls financial control including the risk management systems in in 2009.
During 2009 the Group internal audit function carried relation to the financial reporting process.
The Committee out assurance reviews of the Groups capital and liquidity works closely with the Risk and Regulatory Committee, which Governance 95 Performance review Aviva plc Audit committee report continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information management including a review of its risk management During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of function and the management actions put in place to maintain the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external business as usual activities.
auditor, assessing the audit firm, the audit partner and audit teams.
The process was conducted by means of a questionnaire, External auditor completed Group-wide by members of senior management and members of the Groups finance community and the Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young was appointed auditor of Committee.
The questionnaire sought opinions on the the Company in 2001 having previously been the auditor of importance of certain criteria and the performance of the Norwich Union plc.
Following the annual external audit external auditor against those criteria.
Based on this review, effectiveness review, the Committee concluded that the audit the Committee concluded that the audit service of Ernst & service was fit for purpose and recommended that a re-tender Young was fit for purpose and provided a robust overall process should not be undertaken in 2009 but that the examination of the Groups business and the risks involved.
relationship and the effectiveness of the auditor be kept In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board under review.
Ernst & Young audits all significant subsidiaries undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees of the Group.
during the year, including the Audit Committee.
In addition, the The Company introduced a revised external auditor policy Committee also carried out a self-evaluation of its effectiveness.
on 1 January 2008 aimed at safeguarding and supporting the This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The policy 3 March 2010. was updated to reflect current global best practice on auditor independence, and is in full compliance with all UK, US and Russell Walls International Federation of Accountants IFAC rules.
The revised Chairman, Audit Committee external auditor policy aims to be simpler to interpret, providing greater clarity on what services may and may not be provided by the Groups external auditors.
The external auditor policy regulates the appointment of former audit employees to senior finance positions in the Group and sets out the approach to be taken by the Group when using the services of the external auditor, including requiring that all services provided by the external auditor are pre-approved by the Committee.
It distinguishes between those services where an independent view is required and that should be performed by the external auditor such as statutory and non-statutory audit and assurance work, prohibited services where the independence of the external auditor could be threatened and they must not be used, and other non-audit services where the external auditor may be used.
Non-audit services where the external auditor may be used include: non-recurring internal controls and risk management reviews ie excluding outsourcing of internal audit work, advice on financial reporting and regulatory matters, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, project assurance and advice, tax compliance services, and employee tax services.
The Committee receives a quarterly report of compliance against the external auditor policy and the policy has worked effectively during 2009.
Annually, the Committee reviews a formal letter provided by the external auditor confirming its independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
The Group paid 15.0 million to Ernst & Young for audit services in 2009, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 2008: 12.1 million.
The fees for other services, which included advice on accounting and regulatory matters, reporting on internal controls, corporate governance matters, and due diligence work, were 19.0 million, giving a total fee to Ernst & Young of 34.0 million 2008: 25.0 million.
Further details are provided in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
In addition, the Group engaged the organisation Corporate Citizenship in relation to certain assurance work, including verification of its Corporate Responsibility Report.
