120 Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 procedures, including the possibility of human error and the United Kingdom The Financial Services Authority circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
In the UK, the Financial Services Authority the FSA is the single Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures regulator for all authorised persons with respect to regulated can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control activities in the financial services sector.
In this regard, the FSA objectives.
Based upon Avivas evaluation, the Group Chief is authorised to make rules and issue guidance in relation to a Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of wide sphere of activity encompassing the governance of the 31 December 2009 Avivas disclosure controls and procedures conduct of business by, and the prudential supervision of were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information persons which the FSA has authorised to conduct such business required to be disclosed by Aviva in the reports Aviva files and Authorised Persons or Authorised Firms.
submits under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 processed, summarised and reported, within the time periods FSMA, no person may carry on or purport to carry on a specified in the applicable rules and forms and that it is regulated activity by way of business in the UK unless he is an accumulated and communicated to Avivas management, Authorised Person or an exempt person.
A firm which is granted including the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial permission by the FSA to carry on regulated activities becomes Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding an Authorised Person for the purposes of FSMA.
activities are prescribed in the Financial Services and Markets Managements annual report on internal control over Act 2000 Regulated Activities Order 2001 and include financial reporting banking, insurance and investment business, stakeholder This Annual Report does not include a report of managements pension schemes, insurance mediation and certain mortgage assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting mediation and lending activities.
or an attestation report of the companys registered public Authorised Firms must at all times meet certain threshold accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules conditions, which include having adequate resources for the of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public carrying on of its business and being a fit and proper person, companies.
having regard to all the circumstances.
Authorised Firms must also comply with the FSAs Principles for Business, which are 11 Audit committee financial expert high level principles for conducting financial services business in The Board has determined that Russell Walls, Richard Goeltz the UK.
These include the maintenance of adequate systems and Euleen Goh all qualify as audit committee financial experts and controls, treating customers fairly and communicating with within the meaning of Item 16A of Form 20-F, and that Russell customers in a manner that is clear, fair and not misleading.
Walls, Richard Goeltz and Euleen Goh are all independent as The FSAs regulation of the group defined by the New York Stock Exchange Corporate A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are directly authorised Governance Standards.
The regulated subsidiaries include our insurance companies eg the UK Life and UK General Insurance Code of ethics companies, asset managers Aviva Investors and intermediaries The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief UK Healthcare and RAC Motoring Services.
Aviva plc, although executive, chief financial officer, general auditor and group chief not directly authorised by the FSA, does itself come within the accounting officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 scope of regulation by virtue of being the ultimate insurance of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the holding company in the Group.
In line with requirements under SEC.
There have been no amendments to, or waivers from, the Insurance Groups Directive, Group solvency returns are the code of ethics relating to any of those officers.
The code required to be prepared at Aviva plc level.
of ethics was filed on 7 October 2009 as an exhibit to our Form The FSA regime is built on the basic principle that a firm 20-F registration document.
should have systems and controls, including risk management, which are appropriate to the size, complexity and diversity of Regulation its business.
Compliance Approved persons and controllers In our insurance business, matters may arise as a result of The FSA regime is also predicated on the principle of senior industry-wide issues, inspection visits or other regulatory activity management responsibility.
The directors and senior managers requiring discussion and resolution with insurance industry holding positions of significant influence of each of the Groups regulators.
As a result of these matters, we ensure that regulated entities are individually registered with the FSA under procedures are in place to address regulatory concerns and that the Approved Person regime, and can be held directly such procedures are properly planned, managed and resourced.
accountable to the FSA for control failings in those firms.
We pursue corrective action when necessary and report A number of senior managers at Group level have also been progress to the regulatory bodies in a timely manner.
registered as Approved Persons for the regulated subsidiaries, even though they are neither directors nor senior managers of Overview of regulation as it affects our business these firms.
This recognises that these managers exert Our principal insurance and investment operations are in the significant influence over the regulated subsidiaries, because United Kingdom, Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific they are responsible for key parts of the Groups control region.
We are therefore subject to financial services regulation framework on which the regulated subsidiaries place reliance.
in these regions, which is discussed below.
The FSA regulates from a legal entity perspective, even though we tend to operate within Regions by Business Unit.
Shareholder information 121 Performance review Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information However, the FSA also recognises, and indeed expects, that maintaining confidence in the financial system Avivas regulated subsidiaries operate within an overall promoting public understanding of the financial system framework of Group governance and controls.
Its rules expressly securing the appropriate degree of protection for consumers provide that any systems and controls which operate on a reducing the extent to which it is possible for a business to Group basis will be taken into account in determining the be used for a purpose connected with financial crime adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys systems and controls.
The robustness of these Group controls, from the operation of the Given our size, and the extent of our share of the UK retail Aviva plc board and its committees down, is thus very much market, a major issue within our business which causes concern within its regulatory remit.
for the FSA could have a very significant impact on these The FSA regulates the acquisition and increase of control objectives.
The FSA therefore aspires to have a close and over Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person proposing to continuous relationship with us.
In practice, this means that acquire control of or increase control over certain thresholds a wide range of Group, Regional and UK Business Unit senior over an Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent of the managers have regular scheduled close and continuous FSA.
The Authorised Firm must also inform the FSA of any such meetings with the FSA, and other meetings and discussions on proposed acquisition or increase.
In considering whether to specific issues take place as the need occurs.
This adds up to grant or withhold its approval to the acquisition or increase of weekly or even daily FSA interaction at both UK Business Unit control, the FSA must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and Group level, although contact at a Regional level would be and proper person and that the interests of consumers would less frequent.
not be threatened by this acquisition or increase of control.
The FSA also periodically conducts a formal ARROW review Control over a UK Authorised Firm A is acquired if the of Aviva which stands for Advanced Risk-Responsive Operating acquirer holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an framework, to assess the level of risk that the Group poses to insurance intermediary or more of the shares in A or a parent each of the FSA objectives.
The last full risk assessment was undertaking of A P : is able to exercise significant influence conducted in 2009 and the next full risk assessment is due to over the management of A or P by virtue of his shareholding in start in the first half of 2011.
The resulting risk mitigation that company: is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise, of programme RMP itemises those areas of potential risk or 10% 20% in the case of an insurance intermediary or more weakness where the FSA particularly wishes us to focus of the voting power of A or P, or is able to exercise significant attention.
The risk assessment and RMP are updated on an influence over the management of A or P by virtue of his voting on-going basis between each ARROW review.
Increases in control, once they reach Along with other firms in the insurance industry, our thresholds of 20%, 33% and 50% of the shares or voting relationship with the FSA has recently gone through another power of an Authorised Firm or one of its parent undertakings, significant stage in its development with the roll out of the also requires the consent of the FSA.
individual capital assessment ICA regime.
This is shifting In order to determine whether a person or a group of emphasis from managing issues after the event to better persons is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings assessing the adequacy of up-front governance, risk shares or voting rights of the person and his associate, if any, management and prevention.
It has also increased focus are aggregated.
on risk, controls and governance at individual entity level.
The FSA has highlighted in its 2009 Business Plan that it FSA conduct of business rules expects to focus on: The FSAs Conduct of Business COB Rules apply to every Ensuring firms are soundly run and in particular that they Authorised Firm carrying on regulated activities and regulate adjust their business models to ensure they can remain well the day-to-day conduct of business standards to be observed capitalised and securely funded.
by Authorised Persons in carrying on regulated activities.
Maintaining pressure on firms to treat customers fairly.
The COB Rules are principle based and the scope and Playing a full role in modernising the global regulatory range of obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm will vary framework.
according to the scope of its business and range of the Completing the planned programme of improvements to its Authorised Firms clients.
Generally speaking, however, the supervisory processes.
obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COB Rules will include the need to classify its clients according to their level Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its own of sophistication, provide them with information about the national regulator s. However, overseas operations are also Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product disclosures within the remit of the FSA for two main reasons: including fee and remuneration arrangements, ensure that The structure of the Group means that the great majority promotional material which it produces is clear, fair and not of the overseas operations are owned, ultimately, by Aviva misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain products, International Insurance AII, a UK regulated insurance company.
controls on the range and scope of advice given, manage In its regulation of AII, the FSA has a legitimate interest in the conflicts of interest, report appropriately to its clients and systems and controls by which the Group manages its overseas provide certain protections in relation to client assets.
businesses, to ensure that financial shocks do not flow through Day-to-day supervision to the UK.
The FSAs day-to-day supervision of Aviva is conducted by a Our activities within the EU are subject to the Insurance dedicated team within its Major Retail Groups Division.
The Groups Directive as discussed in more detail below.
This gives FSA takes a risk-based approach to its regulatory activity, the FSA the additional formal responsibility of acting as lead concentrating its resources on those firms and activities which regulator ie the cross sector supervisory co-ordinator for the it assesses pose the greatest potential threats to its four Group within the EU.
statutory objectives of: 122 Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The FSA therefore seeks to monitor the strategy and Restrictions on business performance of the Groups international businesses through Under the FSAs Handbook, an insurance company is restricted from carrying on any commercial business other than insurance regular Close and Continuous meetings with the CEOs and business and activities directly arising from that business.
Finance Directors of the overseas Regions.
The FSA aims to play a leading role in the development of Therefore, the FSA authorised insurance companies in the both EU and international regulation.
It is, in particular, at the Group are bound by this restriction.
vanguard of the movement towards risk-based insurance Capital and solvency rules for insurers regulation.
The FSA has increased its desire for a principles Under the FSA Handbook, a UK insurer including those within based approach to regulation.
In line with this FSA continues the Group must hold capital resources equal to at least the to place increasing weight on the Treating Customers Fairly Minimum Capital Requirement the MCR.
More recently FSA has rewritten the conduct of with-profits liabilities of more than 500 million must hold business rules to remove many of the more granular capital equal to the higher of MCR and the Enhanced Capital requirements.
The ECR is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic measure of a with-profits insurers Intervention and enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to investigate and intervene in capital requirements, whereas the MCR is broadly speaking the affairs of Authorised Firms and is obliged under FSMA to equivalent to the previous required minimum margin and monitor compliance with the requirements imposed by, and to satisfies the minimum EU standards.
Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two enforce the provisions of, FSMA, related secondary legislation and the rules made thereunder.
separate measurements of the Authorised Firms financial The FSAs enforcement powers, which may be exercised resources requirements, which the FSA refers to as the twin against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, include peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in serious The requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus the long-term insurance capital requirement the cases, the variation or revocation of permission to carry on regulated activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The FSA LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and may also vary or revoke an Authorised Firms permission to A calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers protect the interests of consumers or potential consumers, or expected future contractual liabilities together with projected if the Authorised Firm has not engaged in regulated activity for fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
12 months, or if it is failing to meet the threshold conditions for authorisation.
The FSA has further powers to obtain injunctions against Authorised Persons and to impose or seek restitution The regulatory peak implements the Solvency I Directives, the orders where persons have suffered loss.
latter forming part of the European Commissions efforts to In addition to its ability to apply sanctions for market abuse, achieve a single European market for financial services.
The LTICR is made up of several components, but in general is equal the FSA has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under FSMA and insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal to approximately 4% of the mathematical reserves, although Justice Act 1993 and breaches of money laundering regulations.
the formula varies according to the type of business written.
The FSAs stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all All insurers must also assess for themselves the amount appropriate cases.
of capital needed to back their business Individual Capital Assessments.
If the FSA views the result of this assessment The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS as insufficient, the FSA may draw up its own Individual Capital The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small Guidance for the firm, which can be imposed as a requirement businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the on the scope of the Authorised Firms permission.
Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of Long-term assets and liabilities Where a UK insurer carries on life insurance business, then longbusiness.
Under a new funding system that started on 1 April term business assets and liabilities namely those assets and 2008, for the purposes of funding FSCS compensation costs, the FSCS levy is split into five broad classes: liabilities relating to life and health insurance policies must be Deposits segregated from the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life insurance business or to shareholders.
Separate accounting and Long-term insurance and savings other records must be maintained and a separate fund must be General insurance established to hold all receipts of long-term business.
Investments Home finance The extent to which long-term fund assets may be used for purposes other than long-term business is restricted by the rules in the FSA Handbook.
Only the established surplus the With the exception of the deposits class, each broad class is excess of assets over liabilities in the long-term fund, as divided into two sub-classes based on provider intermediation determined by actuarial investigation may be transferred so as activities.
Each of the sub-classes is made up of firms which are providers or intermediaries and engage in similar styles of to be available for other purposes.
Restrictions also apply to the business with similar types of customer.
payment of dividends by the insurance company, as described below.
The rules in the FSA Handbook for insurers require the The sub-classes are based on the activities a firm undertakes maintenance of sufficient assets in the separate long-term and are aligned to their FSA permissions.
A firm could be insurance fund to cover the actuarially determined value of the allocated to one or more sub-classes according to the activities that it undertakes.
In the event of a failure of a market insurance liabilities.
participant, the Authorised Firms in the Group could be required to make contributions to compensate investors.
Shareholder information 123 Performance review Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Distribution of profits and with-profits business subsidiary and joint venture companies.
These companies are For UK authorised life insurer carrying on with-profits business, subject to the laws and regulation of the EU member state in the FSAs rules require that once an allocation of surplus in a which they are based.
However, as progress continues towards with-profits fund has been made to policyholders, no transfer the creation of a single market in financial services, EU of assets representing any part of a subsequent surplus can be legislation will continue to have a significant influence on the made, to shareholders or otherwise, unless either the relevant legislative environment both in the UK and other EU markets.
minimum as defined in the FSA Handbook of the surplus has The EU operates by promulgating Directives that must be been allocated to policyholders or a statutory notification implemented into local national legislation within each EU procedure has been followed.
Calculation of the relevant member country.
Directives set the minimum standards for the minimum is based on the percentage of the relevant surplus appropriate national legislatures to meet, but leave it up to the previously allocated to eligible policyholders.
legislatures to decide just how they should be implemented.
National governments are generally free to include restrictions in Reporting requirements their laws beyond those required by a directive but may not pass Under the FSA Handbook, insurance companies must file with laws that do not meet the minimum standard.
Directives are the FSA their audited annual accounts and statements of written at a fairly high level of detail and consequently financial position and life insurers annual reports from the implemented in more detail at national level according to the actuary performing the actuarial function.
There is also a local legal system.
Still higher levels of detail may be imposed requirement to report the annual solvency position of the through the rules and regulations of national regulators.
In the insurance companys ultimate parent.
case of financial services businesses these rules can be extensive.
The FSA uses the annual return to monitor the solvency EU financial services regulation is based on the principle of ability to meet current and future obligations such as claims home country control under which the home country regulator payments to policyholders of an insurance company.
For is responsible for monitoring compliance with all applicable general insurance business, the return is also used to assess regulation.
For life and non-life insurance business the home retrospectively the adequacy of the companys claims provisions.
country control principle was implemented through the Third The directors of an insurance company are required to sign a Life and Non-Life Directives during the mid 1990s.
This regime certificate, which includes a statement as to whether the places the responsibility for such issues as solvency, actuarial company has maintained the required minimum margin of reserves and investment of assets as well as certain governance solvency throughout the year.
The directors must also certify issues on the home country regulator.
Consequently most that the company has completed its return to the FSA properly companies that have been licensed to conduct insurance in accordance with the FSAs instructions and that the directors business in one member state may conduct business or apply are satisfied that the company has complied in all material to passport into all other member states without having to respects with the requirements set out in the FSA Handbook.
be separately licensed in each.
The general exception is selling UK winding up rules activity which continues to be regulated by the state in which The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK the sale takes place.
companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK Insurance group directive IGD insurance companies, where direct insurance claims will have The EU has promulgated the Insurance Groups Directive priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the IGD, which requires member states to introduce the exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance following measures to strengthen supervision of insurance creditors, on a winding-up by the court or a creditors voluntary companies which are part of a group: winding up of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of An adjustment to the solo supervision solvency calculation making a winding-up order when an insurance company has in relation to participating interest in other insurance been proved unable to pay its debts, a UK court may, under undertakings in order to eliminate double-gearing the section 311 of FSMA, reduce the amount of one or more of use of the same regulatory capital in more than one entity the insurance companys contracts on terms and subject to of a group.
conditions if any which the court considers fit.
Where an An additional parent undertaking solvency margin insurance company is in financial difficulties but not in calculation analogous to the adjusted solo solvency margin liquidation, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme may test referred to above, to be applied at the level of the take measures for securing the transfer of all or part of the parent undertaking.
business to another insurance company.
The introduction of new solo-supervision requirements, FSMA provides further protection to policyholders of including rules as to internal control within the insurance insurance companies effecting or carrying out contracts of longundertaking regarding the production of information term insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator relevant to supplementary supervision, the exchange of must carry on the insurers business so far as it consists of information within the group and the supervision of intra carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term insurance with group transactions.
a view to it being transferred as a going concern to a person Further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
In carrying on the competent regulatory authorities of member states.
business, the liquidator may agree to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when the winding-up order Since 31 December 2006 the group capital resources is made, but must not effect any new contracts of insurance.
requirement the parent undertaking solvency calculation mentioned above has been a hard test ie it constitutes a The European Union EU In addition to its UK businesses Aviva is also currently active requirement to maintain the group capital resources, rather in 14 of the 27 EU member states through wholly owned than simply to make the calculation under the FSA Handbook.
124 Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Reinsurance directive International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS On 16 November 2005, the Council and the European The standards drafted by the International Accounting Parliament adopted Directive 2005 68 EC on reinsurance the Standards Board IASB have been mandatory for about 7,000 Reinsurance Directive which member states were obliged EU listed companies since 1 January 2005.
For standards on to transpose into national law by 10 December 2007.
The insurance contracts a two phased approach has been adopted Reinsurance Directive requires that all reinsurance undertakings by the IASB.
Under the interim solution adopted as IFRS 4 be authorised in their home member state.
To obtain that Insurance Contracts, insurers apply a variety of existing local authorisation, they will need to meet strict requirements.
Once accounting practices subject to a number of adjustments.
they have done so, they will be free to carry out their activity Proposals for a final standard for accounting for insurance anywhere in the EU through the single market passport.
The contracts are currently under review but might not be agreed FSA has implemented the requirements of the Directive by before 2011 or later.
changing its Handbook with effect from 31 December 2006.
Solvency II Distance marketing directive On 5 May 2009, the European Parliament formally adopted Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are the Solvency II Level 1 Directive.
Solvency II represents a required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in fundamental change in European regulation and will result in order to protect consumers by: a more sophisticated risk based capital approach.
It establishes Setting minimum standards for information that must be a solvency system that is better matched to the true risks of provided to consumers before entering into a financial insurers enabling supervisors to protect policyholder interests services contract by distance means.
as effectively as possible in accordance with common principles For certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period, across the EU.
which for general insurance is 14 days, in which a consumer Since the approval, the focus has been on the development may, without penalty, cancel such a contract.
of the Level 2 implementing measures advice published by the CEIOPS which fill in the detail under Level 1 and focused on Insurance mediation directive technical issues.
Aviva has been actively participating in the Under the Insurance Mediation Directive, EU member states process by providing responses to the CEIOPS as well as are required to establish a framework to: participating in the key European industry working groups who Ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have provide the voice of industry in on-going negotiation in Brussels.
been registered on the basis of a minimum set of The formal CEIOPS consultation process has already closed professional and financial requirements.
and the European Commission are now considering the Ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate wording on the implementing measures that will be finalised in other member states by availing themselves of the by the end of 2010.
Full implementation of Solvency II will be freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch.
Impose minimum requirements, with certain limitations, as regards the content of the information which the insurance Future EU developments intermediaries must make available to their potential The integration of retail financial services and the increased customers, and the arrangements for its provision.
awareness of consumers to financial issues remain high on the EU agenda.
This is tending to drive a number of initiatives Financial Services Action Plan FSAP including the Single Market review which will encompass Further measures towards the creation of a single market in reviews of the working of the retail financial services markets, financial services were incorporated into the Financial Services adequacy of consumer protection and contractual rights Action Plan FSAP adopted in 2000.
The FSAP included specific provisions as well as more specific proposals on investment legislative action aimed at extending i the single wholesale products and mortgages.
market ii creating an open and secure retail market and iii In addition to the EU wide initiatives there have also been introducing state of the art prudential rules and supervision.
developments within our major EU markets, including: The FSAP also included measures towards harmonising In France all applicable EU Directives have now been conduct of business rules, notably The Insurance Mediation brought together in a single insurance code supervised by Directive and the Distance Marketing Directive described above.
the Authorit fide Contrle des Assurances et des Mutuelles Investment business ACAM.
In the Netherlands, where Aviva operates under the With the introduction of the Investment Services Directive ISD Delta Lloyd brand, a new Financial Services Act replacing eight the same home country control and passporting regime applied former supervision Acts came into force on 1 January 2007. to fund management activities.
In November 2007 the ISD was Under the new Act the role of the two market regulators superseded by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive The Nederlandische Bank DNB for prudential issues and the MiFID.
MiFID builds on the home country control principle but Authority for Financial Markets AFM for conduct of business extends the range of core investments services and activities are clearly defined.
that may be passported from one member state to another Primary EU insurance regulation in Ireland has been and increased clarity of responsibilities between home and implemented through two Acts and supervised by the Financial host country jurisdictions.
MiFID also introduces greater Regulator.
In July 2007 the Consumer Protection Code was harmonisation governing the organisation and conduct of introduced, a major legislative development bringing together business of investment firms.
comprehensive rules to apply across the financial services sector.
The Capital Requirement Directive which came into force In both Spain and Italy where we operate through joint on 1 January 2007 sets out for the first time directive-based ventures with local banks and savings institutions there has capital requirements for all investment firms brought into been significant progress in revising local regulation and regulation by MiFID.
Shareholder information 125 Performance review Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information strengthening among others governance, mediation and NAIC has a commitment to modernising the state based system disclosure requirements of insurance regulation and is pushing forward an action plan On Polands accession to the EU in 2003 the introduction of aimed at achieving consistency of approach between states on a number of Acts continued the liberalisation of insurance law a number of issues including consumer protection, licensing, started by the Insurance Act of 1990.
The 2003 Acts introduced solvency and changes in insurance company control.
The EU law on insurance activities covering areas including licensing, American Council of Life Insurers ACLI is proposing an optional supervision, reserving and technical provisions, financial federal charter OFC under which life insurers could choose reporting, selling activities, pension fund supervision and the to be federally regulated instead of state regulated.
It is role of an insurance ombudsman.
The 2006 Act on Financial envisaged that the OFC would operate within the NAIC Market Supervision created a single regulator the Polish modernisation plan.
The process was In addition to the OFC there have been legislative proposals completed on 1 January 2008 when the KNF assumed for federal reform in the US.
The legislation that is currently responsibility for bank regulation from the National Bank pending would impose stricter prudential standards on of Poland.
systemically significant financial companies, higher risk financial The European Commission has adopted draft legislation activities and introduce new mechanisms for resolving failures of that will create a European Systemic Risk Board ESRB and set significant financial companies.
The legislative proposals require up a European System of Financial Supervision ESFS.
The ESFS additional stress testing and reporting on a regular basis.
In will be composed of national supervisors and three new addition, a federal insurance office FIO will be established with European Supervisory Authorities ESAs for banking, insurance a remit to monitor the insurance industry, co-ordinate federal and securities.
The ESAs will have powers to develop technical efforts and develop federal policy on international insurance standards and guidelines and direct national supervisors to take matters.
While the FIO will have no regulatory authority over the action or refrain from action in cases where national supervisors business of insurance it will be required to conduct a study of cannot reach agreement between them and where the how to improve and modernise insurance regulation and report Commission has decided that an emergency situation exists.
to Congress no later than one year after the proposed The Commission is now looking to the Council and Parliament legislations comes into force.
for rapid adoption so that the new structures can begin Additionally, there is active discussion within the NAIC of functioning in 2010. moving to a principles-based valuation system for the setting of reserves and capital for life insurance companies.
This could United States change our statutory reserve and capital requirements We write life and annuity business in the United States through significantly and it is not possible to estimate the impact on our Aviva USA, a wholly owned subsidiary formed by the merger of financial condition and results of operation at this time.
Aviva Life Insurance Company of America with AmerUS which On 17 December 2008 the SEC voted in favour of adopting it acquired in July 2006.
Aviva USA is domiciled in Iowa and a new rule 151A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
licensed to conduct business in all 50 states.
In New York it The effect of the rule change is to bring indexed annuity operates a wholly owned subsidiary Aviva Life Insurance products within SEC regulation on a similar basis as the so called Company of New York.
variable products which are regulated as securities.
The rule There is no federal system of regulation for the insurance was set to become effective on 12 January 2011 and apply to businesses.
Rather, individual states have authority to pass equity indexed annuities issued on or after that date.
However, statutes, adopt regulation or issue directives to regulate after a legal challenge by several life insurers in the US Court insurance activities within their jurisdiction.
of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit, the court remanded rule 151A Consequently, life insurance companies are subject to back to the SEC on 21 July 2009, requesting further technical regulation both in the state in which they are domiciled as well analysis.
One of the life insurers involved requested the Court as in each of the individual states in which they operate.
State to delay the effective date of the rule change to two years after regulation can vary in detail from state to state.
All have laws SEC completes their analysis.
The SEC has now consented to and regulations covering the financial aspects of the insurance the delay but the court is now considering whether it should business including standards of solvency, reserves reinsurance set aside the rule entirely.
Aviva believes indexed annuities and capital adequacy.
In addition, most states have specific represent an important product within the US savings and regulation governing licensing and conduct of selling agents as retirement market and that we will be able to meet the well as the approval of products and associated product forms requirements of the new rule 151A under the Securities Act and literature.
Federal initiatives While the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC has no statutory powers, its members are the insurance commissioners in each state and it acts as a forum to develop and propose model laws and regulations.
Each state then decides whether to adopt the NAIC model laws or regulations and each state may make changes to the adoption process.
However, the models are generally widely adopted.
An example is the Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Act which has been widely adopted by states for a broad range of transactions.
126 Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk-based capital of the control we are able to exert, are either accounted for as The NAIC has developed risk-based capital standards for life subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
insurance companies as well as a model act for state legislatures The Asia Pacific region is made up of a number of widely to enact.
The model act requires that life insurance companies differing and independent markets.
The markets tend to be report on a formula-based, risk-based capital standard that they at different stages in their development but each has its own calculate by applying factors to various asset, premium and regulatory structures and Aviva fully complies with the local reserve items.
The formula takes into account the risk regulation in each of the countries in which it operates.
characteristics of a company, including asset risk, insurance risk, Industry regulation across the region typically focuses on interest rate risk and business risk.
The NAIC designed the financial stability, ie minimum capital and the basis for formula as an early warning tool to identify potentially calculating solvency, reserves and policyholder liability.
In many inadequately capitalised companies for purposes of initiating of the markets across the region Regulators have the power to regulatory action.
The model act imposes broad confidentiality revoke operating licences, regulate shareholder structures and requirements on those engaged in the insurance business the participation in and the payment of dividends.
Markets including insurers, agents, brokers and others and on state within the region are moving quickly to modernise insurance insurance departments as to the use and publication of riskregulation with an increasing focus on governance and conduct based capital data.
Any state adopting the model act gives the state insurance Intellectual property commissioner explicit regulatory authority to require various Our primary brands in the UK Aviva, Norwich Union, RAC are actions by, or take various actions against, insurance companies registered trade marks in the UK and elsewhere.
whose adjusted capital does not meet minimum risk-based We own approximately 300 registered or pending marks in capital standards.
The Iowa Insurance Commissioner takes into the UK, including Community trade marks having effect in the account the NAICs risk-based capital standards to determine entire EU.
adequate compliance with Iowa insurance law.
We have an active programme of review of marks and Effective 31 December 2005, the NAIC implemented new watching for infringements.
There are no material infringements requirements, referred to as C-3 Phase II, for calculating risk in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the based capital in connection with variable annuity products with Group or third parties.
death and living benefit guarantees.
These changes did not have a material effect on our US operations, and at 31 December 2008, the Companys total adjusted capital under the NAICs definition substantially exceeded Iowa standards.
Canada We write property and casualty business in Canada via a number of wholly owned companies.
Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI with the focus very much on prudential supervision, ie capital adequacy, solvency etc.
OSFI derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act Canada which governs the structure and operation of federally incorporated insurance companies.
The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored under the Minimum Capital Test MCT a risk based framework allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an individual companys risk profile taking account of the investments held and insurance business being written.
Companies have their own internal MCT target as well as being expected to maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI minimum requirement.
There are also 10 individual provincial regulators each regulating predominantly conduct of business issues such as policy terms and conditions, pricing and underwriting of companies they have licensed to write business in the province.
Asia Pacific We operate within the Asia Pacific region through a network of subsidiary companies either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a local partner.
Our business in the region is predominately long-term and savings business, with small general insurance and health operations.
There are wholly owned businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong.
Aviva operates in China, India, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Taiwan and Korea which, depending on the nature and extent Financial statements IFRS 127 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Financial statements IFRS In this section 128 Independent auditors report 197 26 Deferred acquisition costs and other assets 130 Accounting policies 199 27 Assets held to cover linked liabilities 143 Consolidated financial statements: 199 28 Ordinary share capital 143 Consolidated income statement 200 29 Equity compensation plans 203 30 Shares held by employee trusts 144 Pro forma reconciliation of group operating profit to profit before tax 203 31 Preference share capital 146 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 204 32 Direct capital instrument 147 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 204 33 Merger reserve 149 Consolidated statement of financial position 205 34 Other reserves 150 Consolidated statement of cash flows 206 35 Retained earnings 151 Notes to the consolidated 206 36 Minority interests financial statements: 207 37 Contract liabilities and associated 151 1 Exchange rates reinsurance 151 2 Presentation changes 208 38 Insurance liabilities 152 3 Subsidiaries 218 39 Liability for investment contracts 155 4 Segmental information 220 40 Financial guarantees and options 163 5 Details of income 223 41 Reinsurance assets 164 6 Details of expenses 224 42 Effect of changes in assumptions and 166 7 Finance costs estimates during the year 167 8 Long-term business economic volatility 225 43 Unallocated divisible surplus 168 9 Longer term investment return and 225 44 Special bonus and reattribution of the inherited estate economic assumption changes for non-long-term business 227 45 Tax assets and liabilities 169 10 Employee information 228 46 Provisions 170 11 Directors 229 47 Pension obligations 171 12 Auditors remuneration 238 48 Borrowings 172 13 Tax 244 49 Payables and other financial liabilities 173 14 Earnings per share 244 50 Other liabilities 176 15 Dividends and appropriations 245 51 Contingent liabilities and other risk factors 176 16 Goodwill 247 52 Commitments 180 17 Acquired value of in-force business AVIF and 248 53 Statement of cash flows intangible assets 249 54 Group capital structure 181 18 Interests in, and loans to, joint ventures 250 55 Capital statement 184 19 Interests in, and loans to, associates 253 56 Risk management 186 20 Property and equipment 270 57 Derivative financial instruments 187 21 Investment property 273 58 Assets under management 188 22 Loans 273 59 Related party transactions 190 23 Securitised mortgages and related assets 275 Financial statements of the company 191 24 Financial investments 197 25 Receivables and other financial assets
