The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 23 Report of the Directors continued reports produced by the Manager on a quarterly basis, Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment which confirmed regulatory compliance during the year.
companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
Financial The AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, as By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set business activities are exposed to market risk including out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code, as well as market price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, setting out additional principles and recommendations on liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk.
Details of issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
these risks and how they are managed are contained in The Board of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC believes that Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 49 to 56. reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Operational Guide will provide the most appropriate information to Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and dealing or payment systems or the Custodians records recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Code and the AIC Guide can be found on www.
co. uk Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed b New Zealand Listing to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate may not provide the required level of service.
Details of Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock how the Board monitors the services provided by the Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements Corporate Best Practice Code.
designed to provide effective internal control, are explained further in the internal controls section on page 27. c Statement of compliance The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches h Employee and Environmental Matters importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists The Company has no employees and outsources its investment below how the AIC Codes principles have been applied.
management and company secretarial services to subsidiaries of Henderson.
Henderson has implemented environmental The directors believe that during the year under review they management practices, which include systems to limit the use of have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as non-renewable resources and minimise the impact of operations they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions on the environment and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas of the Combined Code except as noted below.
emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
The role of chief executive Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day Corporate Governance Statement management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the a Application of the AIC Codes Principles Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
6 of the UK Listing Executive directors remuneration Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the to comply with the principles of the Combined Code in 2008 Combined Code.
As an investment trust, most of the respect of executive directors remuneration and does not Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third have a Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are parties, the Company has no employees and the directors are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 32. all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the 2008 Internal audit function Combined Code are directly applicable to the Company.
As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed in operations and has no employees, the Board has February 2007 that it remained the view of the FRC that by determined that there is no requirement for an internal following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment audit function.
The directors annually review whether a Companies produced by the Association of Investment function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and will 24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in order the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
Mr Thomas, having served nearly ten years as a director, will retire at the forthcoming AGM, and is not d Directors seeking re-election.
Board Composition There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom the year in which a director of the Company is or was are non-executive.
Following the introduction of the materially interested and which is or was significant in Combined Code the directors have reviewed their relation to the Companys business.
The Nominations Committee has considered service contract with the Company.
No director is entitled the continued appointment of Mr Brewster and Mr Sumner to compensation for loss of office on the takeover of the who have served on the Board for over nine years.
have no other links to the Manager: in addition they have a wide range of other interests and are not dependent in Board Independence and Tenure Policy any way on the Company itself and the Nominations The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity Committee concluded that they continue to make a on the Board, and believes that retaining directors with valuable contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding sufficient experience of both the Company and the length of service, they remain independent in character markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
The Board believes that each of the directors exercises Directors appointment, retirement and rotation independent judgement and that length of service does The Board may appoint directors to the Board without not diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a shareholder approval.
Any director so appointed must directors experience and extensive knowledge of the stand for election by the shareholders at the next AGM in Company is a positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, accordance with the articles of association.
The total long-serving directors are less likely to take a short-term number of directors shall not be less than three nor more view.
This view is supported by the AIC Code.
The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate their The names and biographies of the directors holding office breadth of investment, commercial and professional at the date of this report are listed on page 19.
All experience relevant to their positions as directors on the directors, with the exception of Mr Thorne, served Board of the Company.
Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment In addition, under the articles of association, shareholders The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure may remove a director before the end of his term by that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by passing a special resolution.
A special resolution is passed if the appointment of new directors with the skills and more than 75 per cent of the votes cast, in person or by experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by proxy, are in favour of the resolution.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including The Combined Code requires that every director retires by in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant rotation at least every three years.
The Companys articles past and current experience of various disciplines.
of association provide that one third of directors retire by Mr Matthew Thorne was appointed as a director on rotation each year.
Directors are also required to retire if 27 November 2008. they have served more than nine years on the Board, but may then offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Brewster, Directors Remuneration Mr Sumner and Mr Killingbeck are the directors retiring at A report on directors remuneration is on pages 31 and 32.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 25 Report of the Directors continued Directors Interests in Shares It has also been agreed that directors will advise the Ordinary shares of 25p Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any 31 October 1 November 2009 2008 proposed external appointment and new directors will be asked to submit a list of potential situations falling within With beneficial interest: the conflicts of interest provisions of the 2006 Act in R D Brewster 57,118 55,358 advance of joining the Board.
The Chairman will then RRJBurns 60,000 25,000 determine whether the relevant appointment causes a R W Killingbeck 25,000 25,000 conflict or potential conflict of interest and should F I Sumner 5,500 5,500 therefore be considered by the Board.
D G Thomas 12,000 12,000 M W J Thorne 16,000 10,000 Only directors who have no interest in the matter being Non beneficial interest: considered will be able to participate in the Board approval RRJBurns 33,000 35,000 process.
In deciding whether to approve a conflict of interest, directors will also act in a way they consider, in Mr Thorne was appointed a Director on 27 November 2008. good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the success in taking such a decision.
The Board can impose Company at the beginning and end of the financial year limits or conditions when giving authorisation if the are shown in the preceding table.
Since the year end, directors consider this to be appropriate.
Mr Brewster became interested in a further 308 shares due to the reinvestment of dividends.
The Board believes that its powers of authorisation of conflicts has operated effectively since they were Directors Conflicts of Interest introduced on 1 October 2008.
The Board also confirms Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, or that its procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or have been followed by all the directors.
possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Directors professional development Act, has allowed directors of public companies to authorise When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors only if the articles of association contain a provision to this are also provided on a regular basis with key information effect.
The Act also allows the articles of association to contain on the Companys activities including regulatory and other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe harbours either affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board the situation cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been authorised training and industry seminars.
in advance by the directors.
The Companys Articles of Directors Indemnity Association, which were approved by shareholders on Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in 27 February 2008 and which were effective from 1 October respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of 2008, give the directors the relevant authority required to deal Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK with conflicts of interest.
legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs Each of the directors has provided a statement of all which they may incur relating to the defence of any conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest proceedings brought against them arising out of their applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
The directors have also all undertaken to notify the Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new e The Board potential conflicts of interest that would need to be Chairman approved by the Board and added to the Register, which The Chairman, Mr Brewster, is an independent nonwill be reviewed annually by the Board.
executive director who has no conflicting relationships.
26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued Senior Independent Director reviewed and are given the opportunity to speak to the Mr Sumner was appointed as Senior Independent Director Committee members without the presence of the on 28 February 2005. representatives of the Manager.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Financial The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set Statements.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly define the responsibilities and duties for each Committee Management Engagement Committee are available on the website or on request and will be The Management Engagement Committees membership available for inspection at the AGM.
comprises Mr Brewster, Mr Burns, Mr Killingbeck, Mr Sumner, Mr Thomas and Mr Thorne.
The Chairman of Audit Committee the Committee is Mr Brewster.
The Committee meets at The Audit Committee comprises Mr Thomas, Mr Sumner, least annually to review the investment management Mr Killingbeck and Mr Thorne, all of whom are considered agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is services provided by the Manager.
Mr Thomas and Mr Thorne will succeed Mr Thomas as Audit Committee Chairman.
The Board has satisfied itself Nominations Committee that at least one of the Committees members has recent The Nominations Committee comprises Mr Brewster, and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has Mr Burns, Mr Sumner and Mr Killingbeck.
The Chairman written terms of reference, which clearly define its of the Nominations Committee is Mr Brewster.
Committee, which meets at least annually, reviews the Boards size and structure and is responsible for Board The Committee meets at least three times each year to succession planning.
The other members of the Board may review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to attend meetings of the Nominations Committee by consider and recommend to the Board for approval the invitation.
contents of the Half-Year and Annual Report & Financial Statements to shareholders and to review the accounting Charities Committee policies and significant financial reporting judgements.
The Charities Committee comprises Mr Sumner Chairman Representatives of the Managers internal audit and and Mr Brewster, who consider requests for charitable compliance departments attend these meetings at the donations of a limited nature within set criteria.
In addition, the Committee reviews the year donations were made totalling 4,000 2008: 3,000. auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, Board Attendance appointment and remuneration, the quality of the services Currently, the Board meets eight times per annum and is of the service providers to the Company, and, together responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Audit various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of the Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the Board may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal audit provided by  LLP and schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision which therefore has not considered it necessary to date to require are categorised under various headings including strategy, an independent tender process.
The auditors are required management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal to rotate the audit partner every five years and the current controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, partner has served his final year in 2009.
A new audit contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, partner will be introduced for the audit of the 31 October performance, corporate governance and Board membership 2010 accounts.
In order to enable them to discharge their Representatives of  LLP, the responsibilities, all directors have full and timely access to Companys auditors, attend the Committee meeting at relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the which the Annual Report and Financial Statements are Companys investment performance and considers financial The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 27 Report of the Directors continued analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The interviews were held between the directors and the Senior Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives Independent Director.
The process is considered by the and is responsible for setting asset allocation parameters, Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for investment and gearing limits within which the Manager has improving the functioning and performance of the Board discretion to act.
The Board thus supervises the management and the Committees, the contribution of individual of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated directors, as well as building on and developing individual to the Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval and collective strengths.
of unquoted investments and all investments in in-house The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice funds managed or advised by the Manager.
It also has and services provided by the Manager which, through its adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that duties, to take independent professional advice at the the Board and Committee procedures are followed and expense of the Company.
that applicable regulations are complied with.
During the The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the year the Company has maintained insurance cover in investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these respect of legal action against the directors: this does not meetings provide a forum to discuss a variety of relevant cover fraud, negligence or wilful default.
matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
g Internal Controls The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems held during the year and the attendance of individual of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
All directors attend the Annual These controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are General Meeting.
safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the financial information used within the business and for Management Audit Nominations Engagement Charities publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering Board Committee Committee Committee Committee financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is No.
of meetings 8 3 3 1 2 embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of Mr R D Brewster 8 n a 3 1 2 regular investment performance and attribution statements, MrRRJBurns 7 n a 2 1 n a financial and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a Mr R W Killingbeck 8 3 3 1 n a quarterly control report.
Key risks have been identified and Mr F I Sumner 7 3 2 1 2 controls have been put in place to mitigate such risks, Mr D G Thomas 8 3 n a 1 n a including those risks that are not directly the responsibility of Mr M W J Thorne 8 2 n a 1 n a the Manager.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance and risk departments Mr Thorne was appointed to the Board on 27 November on a continuing basis and is also reviewed by the Company.
The Manager and the custodian maintain their own systems of The membership of each Committee is shown on the internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive inside back cover of this report.
regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are f Performance Evaluation designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance The Company against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather The performance of the Company is considered in detail at than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating The Board and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the put in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and Guidance which was revised by the FRC in October 2005 interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, and June 2006.
28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an j Share capital and Shareholders annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of Share capital internal control and the business risks have been analysed and At 31 October 2009 the Company had in issue 112,246,050 recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board ordinary shares of 25p each.
The voting rights of the ordinary receives each quarter from the Manager a formal report which shares on a poll are one vote for every four shares held.
There details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares those that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager, and there are no shares which carry specific rights with and which reports the details of any known internal control regard to control of the Company.
The market price per share failures.
The Board receives each year from the Manager a at that date was 347.5p, giving the Company a market report on its internal controls which includes a report from the capitalisation of 390 million.
Equity shareholders funds Managers reporting accountants on the control policies and totalled 449 million, the net asset value per share at that procedures in operation.
date being 399.9p per share inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
Accordingly, the market price per share stood at a The Board confirms that in the event of any significant failings discount of 13.1% to the net asset value inclusive of or weakness identified from the annual review of the retained revenue for the year.
The Company seeks effectiveness of the Companys system of Internal Control, shareholder authority annually to buy back its shares in the necessary actions would be taken to remedy them.
During the year the Company significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company bought back 913,774 of its ordinary shares at an average were identified in the year under review.
discount of 11.8% for a total consideration of 3,302,000. h Accountability and relationship with the Manager Substantial Share Interests The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Financial Statements is set out on page 33, the Report of the Company, at 8 January 2010, are set out below.
Independent Auditors on page 60 and the Statement of Shareholder % of voting rights Going Concern on page 21.
F&C Asset Management 5.03 Legal & General 3.96 The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management 3.01 other external third parties, the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 December 2009, safeguarding of the assets, the day-to-day accounting, 15.36% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of company secretarial, administration and registration services.
participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products run by Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper Halifax Share Dealing Limited HSDL, which is now part consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the of Lloyds Banking Group.
In accordance with the services offered, including the control systems in operation in arrangements made between HSDL and Henderson, the so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products are given the opportunity to instruct the nominee company of HSDL The Board receives and considers regular reports from the to exercise the voting rights appertaining to their shares in Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to respect of all general meetings of the Company.
HSDL has the Board as required.
undertaken to instruct its nominee company to exercise the i Continued appointment of the Investment Manager voting rights of any shares held through the Halifax Share The Board reviews the performance of the Investment Dealing products that have not been exercised by the Manager Manager at each Board meeting.
In the opinion of individual participants in them.
It will do so by voting for or the Directors the continued appointment of the Manager on against all resolutions to be put at all general meetings of the terms agreed is in the best interests of the Companys the Company or by withholding votes on such resolutions shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions for each investment management resources and wide experience in resolution received from those participants who have managing and administering investment companies.
chosen to exercise their voting rights.
