com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 151 Corporate governance Corporate governance report crisis and considered any enhancements that could be made.
Governance processes were reviewed and a number of changes were made.
These included revisions to the Board Risk Committee Terms of Reference to make explicit its role in reviewing risks following the Groups entry into new businesses or geographies.
The changes also set out the Committees role in reviewing the specific risk adjustments to be applied to performance objectives.
The frequency of risk, capital and liquidity reporting to the Board, Board Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee has been increased and additional time has been allocated to strategy discussions.
Barclays has emerged from the crisis in a relatively strong position compared to many of our peers.
The underlying profits of the Group were strong in 2009 and good progress was made on key measures of financial strength, such as capital and liquidity.
However, we remain conscious of Group Chairmans Introduction the significant reduction in shareholder value suffered by our shareholders.
Barclays performed strongly in 2009, despite it being another challenging Whilst we have made changes to some of our Corporate Governance year for the financial services industry.
Once again, a number of difficult processes and practices, we believe that these were fundamentally sound.
decisions had to be taken as the Board sought to act in the best interests The review of Corporate Governance in the banking sector by Sir David of shareholders.
Walker the Walker Review, to which we contributed, made a number of recommendations for improvements in governance in the banking sector.
Review of 2009 Many of the practices put forward in the Walker Review recommendations The year started with confidence in the banking sector as a whole at an are in line with practices we already have in place, but where we can extremely low ebb.
The market was unsure as to the strength of banks enhance processes and practices, we are doing so.
balance sheets and the extent of further losses from both credit market However, the real key to effective Corporate Governance is to ensure exposures and the global economic downturn.
In Barclays case, the share that behaviours around the Board table are appropriate.
It is an essential price was extremely weak during January and the Board took its first key part of my role to ensure that firstly, appropriate and timely information is decision in deciding to issue an open letter from the Group Chief Executive available to the Board in a readily understandable format, and secondly, and myself on 26th January 2009 to address the principal causes for that there is an environment in the Boardroom which promotes and concern.
We felt that it was important to make this announcement, in what supports constructive and effective challenge.
This requires the right Board were exceptional circumstances, to reassure our stakeholders that we were composition and I believe Barclays has been well served by both its executive well funded and profitable.
and non-executive Directors in this respect.
Our Directors understand In March 2009, we announced that the Board did not believe it was in the importance of appropriate Board behaviour, which is set out in our the interests of investors, depositors or clients to participate in HM Treasurys Charter of Expectations at www.
This decision was taken after careful consideration The Charter of Expectations is given to all new Directors and reviewed on an of the economics of participation and detailed stress testing of our capital annual basis to ensure it sets out the expectations of each Director in their position and resources, the results of which were confirmed by the FSA.
role on the Board, including expected competencies, behaviours and time In March 2009, we explored the potential sale of our iShares business commitment.
with a number of interested parties and announced, in April 2009, the sale of that business to a limited partnership established by CVC Capital Partners Board size and composition Group.
Following a superior offer from BlackRock, Inc. for the sale of the During 2009, we made a conscious effort to reduce the size of the Board whole of the Barclays Global Investors business BGI, the Board concluded from its peak of 17 and, although this number will fluctuate as we seek that it would be in the best interests of Barclays and for the benefit of to ensure the Board has the right level of skills and experience, we will aim shareholders to accept that offer.
The resolution for the sale of BGI was put to keep it between 12 to 15 Directors.
Going forward, it is our intention to to shareholders at a General Meeting on 6th August 2009 and 99.9% of maintain a majority of independent non-executive Directors, with votes cast were in favour of the transaction.
approximately 50% of those non-executive Directors, including the Group During the second half of 2009, the Board took the decision to Chairman and the Chairmen of the principal Board Committees, having restructure the Groups credit market exposures.
We announced in banking or financial experience.
We do believe, however, that to be fully September 2009 that we were restructuring a significant tranche of such effective, the Board should have a balance of Directors with both banking exposures in order to secure more stable risk-adjusted returns for or financial experience and broader experience.
And, while we did not pay a final dividend for 2008, We have carefully considered, in the light of both the Walker Review and we were able to resume dividend payments in the second half of 2009 and the Review of the Combined Code, whether all Directors should stand for it is our intention to pay quarterly dividends going forward.
I do believe it is important that the Chairman should It was essential to keep the Board fully informed during the discussions stand for re-election annually and, having discussed the issue at both the on all these matters and the Directors were updated regularly at Board Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board, meetings and through ad hoc circulation of information.
A significant we decided that the Deputy Chairman and Committee Chairmen should number of additional Board and Board Committee meetings were held, also stand for annual re-election.
often at short notice, to discuss and take those decisions a total of 27 Board meetings were held during the year and each of our Board The report that follows sets out how we have complied with the UK Committees held additional meetings.
It was also important to keep our Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and also gives further shareholders informed and, in addition to regulatory announcements, details of any enhancements made during the year and in particular, in meetings were held with our institutional shareholders and other investor response to the recommendations of the Walker Review.
groups to discuss the financial crisis and how we have responded.
Briefings on these meetings were reported to the Board to ensure that all Directors were aware of any concerns raised by our shareholders.
Corporate Governance in Barclays As Chairman, a key part of my role is to ensure that the composition of the Board is appropriate: that appropriate behaviours are demonstrated in the Marcus Agius Boardroom and that there is an environment in which challenge is expected Group Chairman and achieved.
In April, we reviewed the lessons learnt from the financial 9th March 2010 152 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued Statements of Compliance Role and constitution of Board UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Corporate governance framework As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we comply with the UK Good corporate governance practices are not just a matter for the Board but Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
For the year ended are at the heart of everything that we do within the Group.
The Group 31st December 2009, we have complied with the relevant provisions set out operates within a comprehensive governance framework, which is outlined in section 1 of the Code and applied the principles of the Code as described in the diagram below and set out in the report that follows.
The Groups risk in this report.
management framework is described in the Risk Management section on pages87to93.
NYSE Corporate Governance Rules Barclays has American Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock The Board Exchange NYSE, and is also subject to the NYSEs Corporate Governance The Board is responsible to the shareholders for creating and delivering rules NYSE Rules.
We are exempt from most of the NYSE Rules, which sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups domestic US companies must follow, because we are a non-US company businesses.
Each Director must act in a way that he or she considers listed on the NYSE.
However, we are required to provide an Annual Written promotes the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of Affirmation to the NYSE of our compliance with the applicable NYSE Rules shareholders.
The Board also ensures that management achieves an and must also disclose any significant differences between our corporate appropriate balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering governance practices and those followed by domestic US companies listed short-term objectives.
As our main listing is on the London Stock Exchange, we follow Board meetings the UKs Combined Code.
Key differences between the Code and NYSE Rules The Board has eight Board meetings scheduled each year.
Strategy is are set out later in this Report.
reviewed regularly at these meetings with updates at each meeting from at least one business unit on the execution of their agreed strategy.
One Board meeting each year, scheduled over a day and a half, considers and approves the Groups future strategy.
A different approach was taken to strategy formulation in 2009 following feedback received as part of the 2008 Board Effectiveness Review.
During the summer of 2009, the non-executive Directors took part in interviews with the Head of Strategy and Company Secretary to discuss strategic areas of focus.
These areas of focus were debated by the Board in September with discussions of various themes facilitated by non-executive Directors.
Management then developed strategy proposals, which were fully debated by the whole Board in November.
In addition to the eight scheduled meetings in 2009, there were 13 additional Board meetings held to consider and approve the iShares and BGI transactions and the restructuring of our credit market exposures.
A further six Board meetings were held during the year on other issues, including share price performance.
The additional Board meetings, which were often called at short notice, had attendance of 88%.
Any Director who was unable to attend a meeting was briefed separately on the discussions at the meeting Corporate governance framework Board Audit Committee Board Board HR and Group Chairman, three executive Directors, Remuneration Committee nine non-executive Directors Board Corporate Governance Group Chief Executive Board Risk Committee and Nominations Committee Executive Committee Management committees including Disclosure Committee, Group Governance and Control Committee, Group Operating Committee, Group Risk Oversight Committee, Group Brand and Reputation Committee www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 153 and their views were sought and considered.
There were also 12 meetings Role of the Group Chairman of the Board Finance Committee, to which the Board delegated authority The role of the Group Chairman is to lead and manage the Board to ensure to review and approve certain aspects of the iShares, BGI and credit market it discharges its legal and regulatory responsibilities fully and effectively.
The Board Finance Committee, whose purpose is The time commitment of the Group Chairman is set out in our Charter of to authorise certain transactions to which the Group is party, subject to the Expectations and is in line with the Walker Review recommendation that a relevant authority being delegated to the Committee by the Board as set Chairman commits two-thirds of his her time to the role.
The Group Chairman out in the Board Finance Committees Terms of Reference, comprises the must also ensure the Board is effective in delivering all its objectives, and so Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and at least two independent sets the Board agenda and allocates sufficient time for the Board to engage non-executive Directors.
Board Finance Committee attendance was 100%.
in meaningful discussions on strategic issues.
He facilitates and encourages Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged at least one challenge from all Directors where decisions are needed on matters of risk year in advance and all Directors are expected to attend each meeting.
The Group Chairman also ensures that the Directors are kept All Directors are provided with the meeting papers and relevant information well-informed, particularly the non-executive Directors, so that Board in advance of each meeting and, if a Director is unable to attend a meeting discussions are effective and there is good communication between the because of exceptional circumstances, he or she will still receive the executive and non-executive Directors.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief supporting papers and will usually discuss any matters they wish to raise Executive and the Company Secretary work together to ensure that the with the Chairman of the meeting.
This ensures that their views are given Directors receive relevant information for them to discharge their duties due consideration.
The attendance at Board meetings held in 2009 is set and that such information is accurate, timely and clear.
The communication out on page 155.
In 2009, all Directors committed an appropriate amount of information applies to all scheduled Board meetings, but is particularly of time to fulfil their duties and responsibilities on the Board.
Any instances important in exceptional circumstances where the Board needs to respond of non-attendance at Board meetings are generally related to prior business to changing market conditions.
We provide all our Directors with secure or personal commitments or illness.
The additional meetings in 2009 were access to electronic copies of meeting papers and other key documents via often arranged at short notice or rearranged as market conditions changed a dedicated Directors intranet.
The documents available include past and and it was not always possible for all Directors to attend these meetings current Board and Committee papers, reports, minutes, press coverage, particularly because of time zone differences.
analyst reports and material from briefing sessions.
Non-executive Director Board briefings Role of the Chief Executive The Group Chairman usually meets with the non-executive Directors ahead The roles of the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
of each scheduled Board meeting to brief them on the business of the The role of the Group Chief Executive is to manage the day-to-day meeting.
These meetings are held without any executive Directors or senior running of the Group.
The Board has delegated this responsibility to the management present.
The non-executive Directors use these meetings as Group Chief Executive and he then leads the executive Directors and an opportunity to advise the Group Chairman if they have any specific Executive Committee in making and executing operational decisions.
questions they would like to raise about the business of the meeting.
The The Group Chief Executive is also responsible for recommending strategy Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary are always to the Board.
available for the Directors to discuss any issues concerning Board meetings Company Secretary or other matters.
The Company Secretary and his team provide dedicated support to the Role of the Board Board.
Their services are available to all Directors, particularly the nonUK company law requires Directors to act in a way they consider, in good executive Directors who may need additional support to ensure they receive faith, would promote the success of the Company for the benefit of timely and accurate information to fulfil their duties.
Directors may also take shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the Directors must have regard independent professional advice on request at the Companys expense.
amongst other matters to: Effective internal control the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term: One of the Boards key responsibilities is to ensure that management maintains a system of internal control that provides assurance of effective the interests of Barclays employees: and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law the need to foster Barclays business relationships with suppliers, and regulation.
The Board considers the materiality of financial and other customers and others: risks to the Groups business and reputation, ensures that appropriate controls are in place and considers the relative costs and benefits of the impact of Barclays operations on the community and the environment: implementing specific controls.
the desirability of Barclays maintaining a reputation for high standards of The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule of matters business conduct: and reserved for the Boards decision.
These matters are significant to the Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial or reputational implications.
the need to act fairly as between shareholders of Barclays.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board is reviewed and updated regularly to ensure it remains appropriate and a summary of these matters is In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
The Board determines set out on page 154. the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to deliver long-term value, Board Activities in 2009 providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate framework of At each meeting in 2009, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance rewards, incentives and controls.
The Board is collectively responsible for Director reported to the Board and one or two of the main businesses or the success of the Group: the executive Directors are directly responsible functions also presented an update on the implementation of their agreed for running the business operations and the non-executive Directors are strategy.
Scheduled Board meetings also received reports from each of the responsible for bringing independent judgment and scrutiny to decisions principal Board Committees and reports from the Company Secretary on taken by the Board.
The non-executive Directors must satisfy themselves on relevant corporate governance matters, including updates on the Walker the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems Review and the Review of the Combined Code and the potential implications of risk management are robust.
Following presentation by executive for the Group.
The Board also received reports on the new regulatory management and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the frameworks in respect of compensation, particularly in respect of the FSA Board, clear decisions on the policy or strategy are adopted, and the Remuneration Code and the proposals of the Financial Stability Board.
executive management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
The role and responsibilities of the Barclays Board are set out in Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available on our website at www.
154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Go online The role and responsibilities of the Barclays Corporate governance Board are set out in Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available on our website at Corporate governance report www.
com corporategovernance continued The Board allocated its time at scheduled Board meetings during Summary of Matters Reserved for the Board 2009 to the following: Approval of the Groups strategy, Medium-Term and Short-Term Plans Strategy Approval of Risk Appetite and Liquidity Risk Appetite discussion of and approval of Group Strategy, including risk strategy and remuneration strategy: Monitoring delivery of the strategy and performance against plan reports from the Group Chief Executive on key strategic issues and Changes relating to capital structure or status as a PLC progress, matters considered by the Executive Committee and competitor Approval of annual Capital Plan activity.
The reports also included progress on Group-wide key objectives, a half yearly review of TSR performance and an update on talent Approval of interim and final financial statements, dividends and any management: significant change in accounting policies or practices reports from the following businesses on progress against strategy: Authorisation for Directors conflicts or possible conflicts of interest Western Europe, Barclays Global Investors, Barclays Wealth, Barclays Appointment or removal of Company Secretary and Chief Risk Officer Commercial Bank, Barclays Capital including an update on the integration of the Lehman Brothers North American business, Barclaycard, UK Retail Any share dividend alternative Bank and Absa: Remuneration of auditors and recommendations for appointment or reports on the following key issues: Brand and Marketing, Corporate removal of auditors Sustainability, Franchise Health including customer and employee Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and significant press releases satisfaction measures : and Principal regulatory filings with stock exchanges presentations on shareholder sentiment including institutional perceptions and reputation.
Board appointments and removals Finance including capital and liquidity Role profiles of key positions on the Board reports from the Group Finance Director on the financial position of Terms of reference and membership of Board Committees the Group, which included capital management and liquidity updates throughout the year: Major acquisitions, mergers or disposals regular reports from the Chairman of the Board Audit Committee on Major capital investments and projects matters discussed at that Committee: Approval of the framework for determining the policy and specific approval of the full year and half-year results for the Group: remuneration of Executive Directors reports on peer group comparison of results following the release Approval of Chairman and non-executive Director remuneration of preliminary and half-year results: Major changes in employee share schemes approval of the dividend policy: Approval of allotment of shares approval of the Groups cost of equity and capital plan for 2010: and Approval of Board and Board Committees performance approval of the medium-term plan including the financial framework evaluation process and short-term plan.
Determination of independence of non-executive Directors Risk Approval of Corporate Governance framework regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer on risk management and impairment and from the Group General Counsel on legal risk issues: Approval of division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive regular reports from the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee on matters discussed at that Committee: and Rules and procedures for dealing in Barclays securities approval of Risk Appetite and Liquidity Risk Appetite for the Group for 2010.
1: Board allocation of time 2009 2008 % % 6 1 Strategy Formulation and 5 1 Implementation Monitoring 22 16 4 2 Finance including capital and liquidity 25 27 2 3 Governance and Risk 3 including regulatory issues 13 6 4 Corporate Finance 33 13 a 5 Capital Management 33 6 Other including compensation 7 5 Note a Capital management was reported separately for 2008.
It is included within Finance including capital and liquidity for 2009. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 155 Regulatory issues Corporate Finance a review of the FSAs stress-test results: consideration and approval of the proposed iShares sale and subsequent sale of Barclays Global Investors: and regular reports from the Group Chief Executive on contact with regulators consideration and approval of the restructuring of our credit market worldwide and in particular discussions with the tripartite authorities in the UK: exposures.
consideration of the Governments Asset Protection Scheme: and Corporate Governance reports on governance issues and updates on the changes in company updates on the global and UK economic and regulatory environment.
law, including approval of non-executive Director appointments, updates Figure 1 on page 154 illustrates how the Board spent its time at scheduled on the Walker Review consultation and the Financial Reporting Councils Board meetings in 2009. Review of the Combined Code: a report on the effectiveness of the Board following the effectiveness Board size, composition and qualification review: Board size and composition There are currently 13 Directors on the Board, comprised of the Group approval of the non-executive Directors fees following a benchmarking Chairman, three executive Directors and nine non-executive Directors.
comparison against our peer group: and The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board reports from each of the Board Committees.
and, in particular, the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, to ensure there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills and Compensation experience.
The Board aims to appoint non-executive Directors who have reports on remuneration strategy: the skills and experience needed for a comprehensive understanding of reports on regulatory frameworks, including FSA Remuneration Code and the Groups activities and the risk associated with them.
This is particularly the proposals from the Financial Stability Board: important for Barclays as a financial services business and it is our intention that 50% of our non-executive Directors, including the Group Chairman regular reports from the Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration and the Chairmen of the principal Board Committees, should have banking Committee on matters discussed at that Committee: and or financial experience.
However, a broader range of skills and experience is consideration of the proposals for the closure of the UK Retirement Fund.
Board and Committee Attendance Board Corporate Board HR & Governance Board Remuner- & NominBoard Scheduled Additional Audit ation ations Risk a Independent Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee AGM Number of meetings held 8 19 11 14451 Group Chairman Marcus Agius OA 8 19 14 4 1 Executive Directors John Varley Group Chief Executive ED 8 19 1 Bob Diamond ED 8 17 1 Chris Lucas ED 8 19 1 Frits Seegers to 3rd November ED 6 19 1 Non-executive Directors David Booth I 8 16 5 1 Sir Richard Broadbent Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director I 8 18 14451 Leigh Clifford I 8 7 11 1 Fulvio Conti I 8 15 10 1 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson to 23rd April I 3 11 5 - 1 b Simon Fraser from 10th March I7 1557 Reuben Jeffery III from 16th July I 4 2 Sir Andrew Likierman I 8 17 11 5 1 Sir Michael Rake I 8 17 11 2 3 1 Sir Nigel Rudd Deputy Chairman to 23rd April I 3 11 1 1 Stephen Russell to 31st October I 6 12 7 2 3 1 Sir John Sunderland I 8 17 14 4 1 Patience Wheatcroft to 16th June I 3 14 1 Key OA Independent on appointment.
Notes a In the case of Leigh Clifford, who is based in Australia, the time difference meant that he was not always able to participate in additional Board meetings called at short notice, but he was fully briefed on the discussions by the Group Chairman or the Company Secretary.
b Simon Fraser was appointed as a member of the Board Audit Committee and Board HR and Remuneration Committee with effect from 1st May 2009.
156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued essential for the Board to be fully effective.
Figure 2 demonstrates the The Board considers non-executive Director independence on an annual diverse range of skills and experience on the Board.
basis, as part of each Directors performance evaluation.
The Board We have a strong independent element on the Board and more than Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board half the Directors are independent non-executive Directors, which is in reviewed the independence of each non-executive Director in early 2010 line with the recommendations of the Code.
The balance of the Board is and concluded that each of them continues to demonstrate these essential illustrated by Figure 3. behaviours.
Independence of non-executive Directors Board qualification The Code sets out the circumstances that may be relevant to the Board The Board benefits from the diverse range of skills, knowledge and in determining whether each non-executive Director is independent.
experience that the non-executive and executive Directors have acquired In addition to these circumstances, Barclays Charter of Expectations sets as Directors of other companies or as business leaders in government or out specific criteria that the Board considers are essential behaviours in in academia.
The Board also values the experience that our international order to assess the independence of non-executive Directors.
These criteria Directors bring and aims to have diverse geographical experience on the are as follows: Board, as illustrated by Figure 4.
The effectiveness of the Board depends on ensuring the right balance of Directors with banking or financial experience provides objective challenge to management: and broader commercial experience.
is prepared to challenge others assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints as External appointments necessary for the good of the organisation: We recognise that there are significant advantages to individuals and to questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges rigorously and the Board as a whole of Barclays executive Directors serving on the Boards decides dispassionately: of other companies.
In line with the Code recommendation, executive Directors may join the Board of one other listed company and all such is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order appointments must be approved by the Board.
Executive Directors must to support the ultimate good of the organisation: and ensure that their external appointments do not involve excessive has a good understanding of the organisations business and affairs to commitment or conflict of interest and their time commitment to Barclays enable them to properly evaluate the information and responses provided must take precedence over any external appointment other than those by management.
they undertake in connection with their duties at Barclays.
Executive a Fig 2: Industry background experience 1 Financial services 4 9 2 Accountancy financial background 3 1 8 3 Retail marketing 1 7 4 Government experience 3 2 6 5 Business School 1 3 5 6 Corporate Finance 2 4 7 International Europe 1 8 International US 2 9 International Rest of World 2 Fig 3: Balance of non-executive and executive Directors Fig 4: Geographical mix main experience of non-executive Directors 2009 2009 1 Chairman 1 1 2 Executive Directors 3 1 UK 5 3 Independent non-executive 4 2 Continental Europe 1 2 Directors 9 3 US 2 3 4 Other 1 3 1 2 Note a Individual directors may fall into one or more categories.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 157 Directors may retain fees paid in connection with an external appointment and develop proposals on strategy and assess the performance of and details of any fees received by executive Directors may be found in the management in implementing the Groups strategy.
As Deputy Chairman Remuneration Report on page 170. and Senior Independent Director, Sir Richard Broadbent has further responsibilities, which are set out in our Charter of Expectations, including Conflicts of Interest conducting the performance review of the Group Chairman and meeting Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before taking institutional investors.
up any position with another company that conflicts, or may possibly Sir Richard Broadbent met privately during the year with the other nonconflict, with the Barclays interests.
Barclays Articles of Association contain executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive to discuss feedback he provisions to allow the Directors to authorise situations of potential conflicts received on the Group Chairmans performance.
These results were shared of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
During 2008 and in the first few months of 2009 All Directors must report any changes in their circumstances to the Board leading up to the Annual General Meeting AGM, Sir Richard conducted and the Board reserves the right to terminate the appointment of a nona series of meetings and consultations with institutional shareholders executive Director if there are any material changes in their circumstances to discuss the capital raisings.
Sir Richard also met with institutional that may conflict with their commitments as a Barclays Director or that may shareholders to discuss Barclays remuneration strategy and the external impact on their independence.
All existing external appointments for each reviews into this area.
Director have been authorised by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Time Commitment Committee is responsible for conducting an annual review of the Conflicts The Charter of Expectations sets out the time commitment expected from Register and confirming to the Board that, where relevant, conflicts are dealt each Dir ector, with specific requirements for the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, with appropriately, and that the process for dealing with them is operating Senior Independent Director and non-executive Directors.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee commitment expectations are set out for the Board Committee Chairmen reviewed the Conflicts Register in early 2010 and concluded that conflicts and members.
The expected time commitment, which is agreed with each had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation individual, will not be less than a minimum of 20 days per annum.
non-executive Directors, including the Deputy Chairman, Committee Chairmen and Committee members, are expected to commit additional Role of the Board and Board Corporate Governance and time, with the average time commitment for the non-executive Directors Nominations Committee as a whole being in the range of 30-36 days per year.
Sir Richard Broadbent, In addition to reviewing the size and composition of the Board, the Board as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, is expected to Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is also responsible commit to at least one day per week in carrying out his Barclays duties, for reviewing the balance on the Board and its principal Committees and but in practice spends significantly more time on Barclays business.
recommending the appointment of any new Directors to the Board.
It is Committee Chairmen are expected to commit between 3 and 10 days per essential that the Board is refreshed regularly to maintain the appropriate year in addition to between 6 and 8 days per year for Committee members.
skills and experience and the Committee also considers length of tenure The time commitment of each non-executive Director is decided on an of each non-executive Director, which is set out in Figure 5.
The biographies individual basis, with six of the non-executive Directors committing over of the current Directors, which set out the details of their skills and 30 days per year.
Taking into account both Board and Board Committee experience, are on pages 10 and 11. requirements, the balance commit at least 28 days per year.
The Charter of Expectations, which forms part of Corporate Governance in Barclays sets out detailed role profiles for each of the Board Re-election of Directors positions, including the Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior In line with the recommendations of the Code, all Directors usually seek Independent Director and both non-executive and executive Directors.
re-election every three years and any Directors that were appointed during Before appointing a new Director, the Board Corporate Governance and the year seek re-election at the next AGM.
For the 2010 AGM the Group Nominations Committee will consider the responsibilities general to all Chairman, Marcus Agius, will offer himself for re-election as recommended Directors and, in addition, the specific responsibilities required for each role.
In addition, the Deputy Chairman, Sir Richard Non-executive Directors have a responsibility to constructively challenge Broadbent, the Chairmen of each principal Board Committee, David Booth, Fig 5: Length of tenure of non-executive Directors 2009 1 0-3 years 4 3 2 3-6 years 4 3 6-9 years 1 1 2 158 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Go online The Charter of Expectations, including role Corporate governance profiles for key Board positions, is available from www.
com Corporate governance report continued and Sir Michael Rake will also offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors During 2009, in response to the 2008 Board Effectiveness Review, a retiring by rotation, as required by our Articles, and offering themselves for questionnaire was sent to non-executive Directors requesting feedback re-election are Sir Andrew Likierman and Chris Lucas.
Reuben Jeffery, who about the level of interaction with senior management below Board level.
was appointed on 16th July 2009, is also offering himself for re-election.
Following that feedback, and in addition to the regular presentations made to each Board meeting by senior managers, we aim to hold regular lunches Induction, business awareness and development for the non-executive Directors and senior management after Board Each new Director receives an induction presentation, an information pack meetings to encourage greater informal interaction between non-executive and a personalised induction programme.
The induction presentation Directors and senior management.
explains their responsibilities as a Director of a global, listed financial services company and sets out an overview of the Group and its businesses.
The External matters Directors are regularly briefed on market opinion and receive copies of information pack gives details of the disclosures that Directors are required to make to comply with various laws and regulations.
The personal analyst research and press commentary.
Further briefing material on market induction programme, which is discussed with each new Director, is tailored conditions was sent to Directors during 2009 and Directors continue to to their needs so that they can gain a better understanding of the Group and receive relevant publications to keep them up to date with changing market its businesses.
The induction programme typically involves two stages of opinion, including a weekly commentary on the Barclays share price and meetings.
The first involves sessions with each of the executive Directors, analyst comment.
Directors are invited to attend results presentations to members of the Executive Committee and the heads of the main Group meet with analysts and investors to enhance their awareness of market functions.
These sessions include opportunities for the new Director to visit sentiment.
operational sites and meet with senior management and employees.
The second stage includes additional sessions with the executive Directors and Functioning of the Board and evaluation of performance senior managers from each of the Groups main business units to provide Functioning of the Board the new Director with in-depth information to develop a comprehensive For the Board to function effectively, the non-executive Directors must understanding of those businesses.
The sessions focus on the challenges, contribute to Board discussions and challenge and test the proposals opportunities and risks that are faced by each business unit.
Simon Fraser on strategy that are put forward by the executive Directors.
The Board and Reuben Jeffery undertook their Board induction programmes during promotes an environment whereby challenge from the non-executive 2009.
Additional induction programmes are put together for non-executive Directors is welcomed and encouraged, combined with full support for Directors who are joining any of the principal Board Committees and may and empowerment of the executive Directors in implementing decisions.
include meetings with external advisers and the Groups statutory auditor, The Board Committees where appropriate or relevant.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to Board Committees To ensure the Directors continue to further their understanding of the to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent issues facing the Group we provide a comprehensive programme of oversight of internal control and risk management.
The four principal Board business awareness training sessions and briefings on external technical Committees the Board Audit Committee, the Board Corporate Governance matters.
In early 2009, non-executive Directors were sent a questionnaire and Nominations Committee, the Board HR and Remuneration Committee to seek their views on topics of interest, including business specific areas and the Board Risk Committee play an essential role in supporting the and technical issues.
As a result, three in-depth briefing sessions on Basel II, Board in fulfilling its responsibilities and ensuring that the highest standards Capital Management and Derivatives were arranged during 2009. of corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group.
Each Board Attendees were sent pre-reading material for these sessions and interactive Committee reports to the Board following each of its meetings and the discussions were encouraged.
Positive feedback was received from the nonminutes of each Board Committee meeting are circulated to the Board.
executive Directors who attended these sessions and further sessions are This report sets out how the Board and its Committees work within the planned for 2010. governance framework and corporate governance guidelines.
Current membership of the Board Committees Board Corporate Board Governance & Board HR & Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Marcus Agius C M David Booth M C Sir Richard Broadbent M C M Leigh Clifford M Fulvio Conti M Simon Fraser M M Reuben Jeffery III M Sir Andrew Likierman M M Sir Michael Rake C M M Sir John Sunderland M M Key C Chairman M Member www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 159 All members of the principal Board Committees are independent nonBoard Audit Committee executive Directors, although the Group Chairman is a member of the Board Sir Michael Rake Chairman from 31st March 2009 HR and Remuneration Committee, as permitted by the Code for a Chairman Fulvio Conti who was independent on appointment.
The Group Chairman is also Simon Fraser from 1st May 2009 Chairman of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
Sir Andrew Likierman Each Committees terms of reference set out the specific matters for Stephen Russell to 31st October 2009 Chairman to 31st March 2009 which delegated authority has been given by the Board.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on our website at: Secretary www.
A summary of the terms of Lawrence Dickinson reference is set out in the table below.
In addition to the members of the Committee, there are a number of regular attendees at each meeting.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Barclays Internal Audit Director, Chief Risk Officer, Group General Counsel and the lead external audit partner normally attend all scheduled Board Audit Committee meetings.
The Board Audit Committee members usually meet before each meeting, without any executive Directors or senior management present, to raise any questions and discuss issues with the Chairman of the meeting.
They also meet with the external auditors and the Barclays Internal Audit Director, without management present, at the end of most Committee meetings.
Sir Andrew Likierman continues to fulfil his role as the financial expert as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, as a result of his accountancy background and his career with HM Treasury, has recent and relevant financial experience as recommended by the Code.
Sir Michael Rake succeeded Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Committee in March 2009.
Terms of reference Board Audit Board Corporate Governance Board HR and Board Risk Committee and Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Reviews accounting policies Reviews composition of Board.
Sets the policy for executive Recommends total level of risk and the contents of financial Recommends appointment Directors and senior we are prepared to take reports.
Monitors disclosure of new Directors.
risk appetite to the Board.
controls and procedures Considers succession plans Approves individual Monitors risk appetite.
and the internal control for Group Chairman and remuneration awards.
Reviews limits for individual environment.
Considers the Group Chief Executive positions.
Agrees changes to senior types of risk.
Monitors the adequacy and scope of the Monitors corporate governance executive incentive plans.
Obtains assurance external and internal audit.
Oversees the annual Governs employee share that principal risks have been Oversees the relationship Board performance review.
Looks at strategic properly identified and are with our external auditors.
160 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Go online The Board Audit Committee terms of reference Corporate governance are available from the corporate governance section of our website at: Corporate governance report www.
com corporategovernance continued Board Audit Committee Chairmans Statement I took over from Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee The Committee receives a quarterly report on Control Issues of Group at the end of March.
I would like to thank Stephen for his hard work and Level Significance.
This report identifies control weaknesses which could diligence as Chairman of the Committee and for the support provided to have a significant financial or non-financial impact.
The Committee satisfies me during the handover period.
itself that the remediation programmes are appropriate and, in particular, Since becoming Chairman, I have focused the work of the sufficiently timely.
It also monitors the ongoing remediation programme Committee on the following key areas: through to satisfactory resolution.
The Committee also reviews the key risks and controls in each of the Groups major business units, focusing in Capital: particular on those areas where the Groups business is expanding or is Liquidity: deemed to be higher risk.
It also undertakes more in-depth reviews of Impairment: specific areas which it believes warrant close attention, including in 2009: Credit Market Exposures and Mark to Market valuations: and Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering Controls: Key Control Issues.
Sanctions Compliance: In terms of capital and liquidity, the Committee receives quarterly reports the use of direct sales agents, particularly in the Emerging Markets setting out current and forecast capital ratios, the size of the buffer above business: and minimum capital requirements and the potential impact on capital ratios the Lehman Brothers North American business integration programme.
The liquidity section of the report reviews the Groups In addition to the five areas of focus outlined above, the Committee has liquidity risk profile, including movements in retail and commercial been anxious to ensure that the downward pressure on costs in the current deposits, the wholesale funding maturity profile and the potential impact environment does not weaken the control environment.
We have particularly on the Groups liquidity position of stress scenarios.
The Committees monitored staffing levels in Internal Audit to ensure that it has the necessary regular review of these reports is one of the key processes enabling it to resources to fulfil the agreed Audit Plan.
recommend to the Board, on a bi-annual basis, the going concern The Committee reviews the performance of the internal and external statement in the published annual and interim financial statements.
During 2009, a comprehensive external assessment The Committee receives regular reports on current and forecast of Internal Audit was undertaken.
The review compared their practices to impairment.
The report reviews trends in both retail and wholesale credit relevant standards, including those published by the Institute of Internal risk, in each case by business unit.
The report also reviews the level of Auditors as well as regulatory standards and expectations in various potential credit risk loans and the level of impairment held against them.
jurisdictions and included peer group benchmarking.
The review A specific report on impairment methodology was commissioned by the concluded that the Internal Audit function complies with the Institute of Committee to ensure that it was satisfied with the methodologies in use Internal Auditors Standards, is fit for purpose and provides independent across the Group.
The impairment charge included in the interim and assurance on which the Board may rely, with many examples of leading preliminary results announcements is specifically reviewed to ensure that practice.
Where suggestions for improvement were made, the Committee the Committee is satisfied that the charge is appropriate.
In arriving at this will monitor progress.
decision, a variety of factors are considered including: Feedback on the performance of the external auditors was again actual performance versus forecast: sought from key stakeholders in the Group via questionnaires with the underlying portfolio trends: results being presented to, and discussed by, the Committee.
The Committee is fully satisfied with the performance of the Groups external auditor and the business environment: has recommended to the Board and to shareholders that the Groups compliance with Group impairment policy: external auditor should be re-appointed as the Groups auditors at the any adjustments to impairment model outputs: AGM on 30th April 2010.
We are satisfied that the Groups external auditor Barclays position relative to peer banks: and provides effective, independent challenge to management, which has been crucial in the current difficult environment, and has provided valued input from the Groups external auditor.
support to the Committee in the advice given and the clarity of their The Committee continues to review closely the fair value of the Barclays briefings and reports.
Capital credit market exposures including asset backed securities, As Chairman of the Committee, I have liaised as appropriate with the commercial property exposure and leveraged credit positions and the Chairman of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee, particularly to form and content of disclosures of these exposures.
The review of the draw attention to any specific aspects of the Groups results which I feel credit market exposure valuations includes a review of marks by key asset he ought to be aware of when determining appropriate levels of categories, movements in exposures including sales paydowns and a compensation.
I have also liaised with the Chairman of the Board Risk review of underlying collateral by vintage and rating.
The Committee Committee to ensure our agendas are co-ordinated where necessary and receives at both the half-year and year-end and before each Interim to avoid any overlap underlap in coverage.
I am also a member of the Management Statement, a specific presentation from Barclays Capitals Board Risk Committee, which helps to ensure close co-ordination between Chief Operating Officer and discusses the valuations with the Group the two committees.
Finance Director, the Chief Risk Officer and, importantly, the Groups I also have a programme of visiting key businesses overseas, including external auditors.
Confirmation is sought from independent Group control attending meetings of local governance and control committees and the functions such as Risk and Finance, and the external auditors, that the audit committees of key subsidiaries.
During the year, I visited New York, individual marks are appropriate.
The Committee continues to be reassured Dubai and Johannesburg.
that there were no significant variations between the prices at which The Committee can confirm that it received sufficient, reliable and assets were sold and the underlying marks.
timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
A specific focus was the sale of US$12.3bn of credit market assets to Protium Finance LP in September.
I discussed the accounting treatment relating to the asset sale with both the Group Finance Director and the Groups external auditor to ensure I was satisfied that it was appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed the reclassification of certain financial assets Sir Michael Rake originally classified as held for trading, and now considered as loans and Chairman of the Board Audit Committee receivables, again to ensure the accounting treatment was appropriate.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 161 Board Audit Committee Activities in 2009 Business Control Environment The Committee met 11 times in 2009 and Figure 6 illustrates how the received reports on Group Control Environment Key Trend Data and on the Committee allocated its time at those meetings.
The items covered under control environments in each of the following businesses or functions: UK each heading in Figure 6 are as follows: Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank, Barclays Wealth Americas, Barclays Capital including an update on the integration of the Lehman Control Issues Brothers North American business, Barclaycard, Emerging Markets, reviewed internal control and risk management systems: Barclays Wealth, Western Europe, GRCB Technology and Absa.
considered the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over Governance and Compliance financial reporting: considered the information it would require during the coming year to reviewed impairment methodologies: and enable it to discharge its responsibilities given the significant changes in considered the Fraud Risk Control Framework.
financial markets and economic conditions and the impact on the areas of focus for the Committee: Financial Results received reports on matters discussed at the Board Risk Committee, which reviewed the full year results, including market understanding and included information on mark to market valuations, impairment, capital perception of those results: and liquidity: reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts, half-year Results and Interim received regular reports on Raising Concerns, including whistleblowing: Management Statements: and reviewed the Groups accounting policies and the valuation of derivatives received updates on Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance: and credit market exposures.
received updates on Know Your Customer, Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions Compliance audits: Internal Audit Matters received reports from the internal auditors: reviewed the effectiveness of subsidiary audit committees: monitored the performance of the Internal Audit function and received reviewed the recommendations from the Walker Review: and an external assessment review of the Internal Audit function: and reviewed its Terms of Reference to satisfy itself that they enable the reviewed the Global Internal Audit Plan.
Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
External Audit Matters Other reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the Group statutory received updates on business continuity management: and auditor: reviewed the regulatory issues.
approved the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the Group statutory auditor: approved the global audit plan for 2009: considered the provision of non-audit services by the Group statutory auditor more details can be found in the box on page 162: and received reports from the external auditors.
6: Board Audit Committee allocation of time 2009 2008 % % 1 Control Issues 8 9 6 1 2 Financial Results 45 36 5 3 Internal Audit Matters 13 11 2 4 4 External Audit Matters 5 9 3 5 Business Control Environment 21 28 6 Other including governance and Compliance 8 7 162 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Go online The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Corporate governance Committee terms of reference are available from the corporate governance section of our website at: Corporate governance report www.
com corporategovernance continued Non-Audit Services Policy Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place Marcus Agius Chairman safeguards to auditor objectivity and independence.
It has therefore David Booth from 1st January 2010 established a policy on the provision of services by the Groups statutory Sir Richard Broadbent Auditor.
The Policy describes the circumstances in which the Auditor may Sir Michael Rake be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
The Committee Stephen Russell to 31st October 2009 oversees compliance with the Policy and considers and approves Sir John Sunderland requests to use the Auditor for non-audit work.
Allowable services are Secretary pre-approved up to 100,000 or 25,000 in the case of certain taxation Lawrence Dickinson services.
Any assignment where the expected fee is above the relevant threshold requires specific approval from the Committee or a member of The meetings are also attended by the Group Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary and his team deal with day to day administration of the Policy, facilitating requests for approval by the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Committee.
The Committee receives a report at each meeting on the Activities in 2009 non-audit services provided by the Auditor and the Policy is reviewed by The Committee met four times in 2009 and Figure 7 illustrates how the the Committee annually.
Details of the services that are prohibited and Committee allocated its time at those meetings.
During 2009, the Committee: allowed are set out below.
regularly reviewed Board and Board Committee composition to ensure the Services that are prohibited include: right mix of skills and experience are present: bookkeeping: monitored the progress of the action plan arising from the 2008 Board design and implementation of financial information systems: Effectiveness Review and oversaw the conduct of the 2009 Board Effectiveness Review including reviewing the process for the Board, appraisal or valuation services: Committee and individual Review Director evaluations for 2009: actuarial services: reviewed the corporate governance disclosures for the 2008 Annual internal audit outsourcing: Report and considered the proposed disclosures for 2009: management and Human Resource functions: reviewed issues raised at corporate governance meetings held with institutional investors and investor bodies in the lead up to the AGM: broker or dealer, investment advisor or investment banking services: and recommended the appointment of the new non-executive Directors to the Board and changes to Committee membership: legal, expert and tax services involving advocacy.
reviewed succession plans for the Executive Committee and the position Allowable services that the Committee will consider for approval include: of Group Chief Executive: and statutory and regulatory audit services and regulatory non-audit reviewed its Terms of Reference to satisfy itself that they enable the services: Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
other attest and assurance services: accountancy advice and training: risk management and controls advice: transaction support: taxation services: business support and recoveries: and translation services.
7: Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee allocation of time 2009 2008 % % 1 Corporate Governance 5 4 1 Matters 31 52 2 Board and Committee Composition 20 38 3 2 a 3 Successing Planning 29 4 Board Effectiveness 13 7 5 Other 7 3 Note a Included in Board and Committee Composition for 2008. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 163 During 2009, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its Board HR and Remuneration Committee principal Committees at each of its meetings.
Following those deliberations, Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman the Committee recommended to the Board that Simon Fraser and Reuben Marcus Agius Jeffery, who were both identified with the assistance of external search Leigh Clifford consultants, be appointed as non-executive Directors in March and July Simon Fraser from 1st May 2009 2009 respectively.
The Committee also recommended to the Board the Sir John Sunderland following changes to Committee membership: Secretary Sir Michael Rake succeeded Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Board Secretary: Patrick Gonsalves Audit Committee on 31st March 2009 and was appointed as a member of the Board Risk Committee and Board Corporate Governance and Additional information on the role and activities of the Committee can be Nominations Committee with effect from 1st May 2009: found in the Remuneration Report on pages 170 to 186.
The Committees Simon Fraser was appointed as a member of the Board Audit Committee terms of reference have been updated to reflect the changes to its role and and Board HR and Remuneration Committee with effect from 1st May the recent developments in Corporate Governance and regulation.
2009: Board HR and Remuneration Committee Activities in 2009 Patience Wheatcroft was appointed as a member of the Board Risk The Committee met 14 times in 2009 and Figure 8 illustrates how the Committee with effect from 1st May 2009: Committee allocated its time at those meetings.
During 2009 the Committee: David Booth succeeded Sir Richard Broadbent as Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and was appointed as a member of the Board Corporate continued its review of the Groups remuneration policies and practices to Governance and Nominations Committee with effect from 1st January ensure that they remained appropriate and effective: 2010: and reviewed Executive and Executive Committee compensation: Reuben Jeffery was appointed as a member of the Board Risk Committee reviewed various Pensions and Health and Safety matters: with effect from 1st January 2010. monitored the implementation of the talent agenda: The Committee oversees the Board Effectiveness Review and approves the Action Plan for the year ahead.
Further details of the review and our considered incentive funding for each main business area for 2010: evaluation statement are set out on page 165. considered the alignment of risk and compensation: Board Risk Committee reviewed current and future, Group and business level long-term incentive Information on the role and activities of the Board Risk Committee and the arrangements: Committee Chairmans Statement can be found on pages 166 to 168 of this report under Governance of Risk.
obtained market data on remuneration levels in specified markets: and reviewed regulatory developements in respect of compensation.
The Committee received valuable support and advice from its independent advisers, Towers Perrin MGMC now Towers Watson, who attended four meetings in 2009.
8: Board HR and Remuneration Committee allocation of time 2009 2008 % % 1 1 HR Matters including 2 6 5 pensions, excluding talent 3 6 2 Talent Management 1 3 3 3 Incentive Reward 42 58 4 4 Remuneration other, including compensation philosophy 35 30 5 Regulation 7 6 Other 12 3 164 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Go online The Board HR and Remuneration Committee terms Corporate governance of reference are available from the corporate governance section of our website at: Corporate governance report www.
com corporategovernance continued Management Committees The Committee reports to the Executive Committee and also reports to the Board Audit Committee, documenting its conclusions about the Executive Committee effectiveness of the design and operation of the disclosure controls and procedures.
This, together with a joint report on internal controls from John Varley, Group Chief Executive Chairman Barclays Internal Audit Director and the Chairman of the Group Governance Bob Diamond, Group President and Chief Executive, Corporate and and Control Committee, provides assurance to the Board Audit Committee Investment Banking and Wealth Management as required by the Turnbull Review of Internal Controls and as recommended Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director by the Code.
Jerry del Missier, co-Chief Executive, Corporate and Investment Banking Mark Harding, Group General Counsel Evaluation of Board Performance Antony Jenkins, Chief Executive, Global Retail Banking The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board Tom Kalaris, Chief Executive, Barclays Wealth and its Committees is conducted annually and the Walker Review further Robert Le Blanc, Chief Risk Officer recommended that the process is externally facilitated at least every second Maria Ramos, Chief Executive, Absa or third year.
We have undertaken externally facilitated performance Rich Ricci, co-Chief Executive, Corporate and Investment Banking evaluations annually since 2004 and an action plan has been agreed each Cathy Turner, Group Human Resources Director year to progress any identified improvements.
The evaluation in 2008 was independently facilitated by Egon Zehnder International and the following The Board delegates the responsibility for the day to day management of actions were agreed for 2009: the Company to the Group Chief Executive and he is responsible for ensuring that the business is operating effectively.
The Group Chief Executive chairs continued focus on the Boards calendar of business to ensure that nonthe Executive Committee, which supports him in this role.
The Executive critical items are removed or kept to a minimum, thereby ensuring that Committee is supported by a number of management committees, sufficient time can be allocated to items fundamental to the success of including the Disclosure Committee, the Group Governance and Control the Group: Committee, the Group Operating Committee, the Group Risk Oversight refinements to the Boards calendar of business, including additional time Committee and the Group Brand and Reputation Committee.
The Executive to be spent on items such as compensation strategy and succession Committee meets every fortnight to discuss strategy development and planning: policies to recommend to the Board.
review of the overall size of the Board: Disclosure Committee Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director, is Chairman of the Disclosure refinements to the process for evaluating the performance of individual Committee and the members of the Committee are the Company Secretary, Directors: and Group General Counsel, Director Investor Relations, Chief Risk Officer, additional reporting on capital and liquidity.
Barclays Corporate Affairs Director, Group Financial Controller and Barclays Treasurer.
The Committee: Further details of these actions are set out under Board Activities in 2009 on page 153, and Board Corporate Governance and Nominations considers and reviews the preliminary and half-year results, Annual Committee Activities in 2009 on page 162.
The Action Plan for 2009 was Report Annual Report on Form 20-F and the Annual Review: completed.
The evaluation statement for 2009 is set out on page 165. considers Interim Management Statements released to the Stock Exchange: and considers the content, accuracy and tone of any other announcement that is proposed to be made in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 165 Evaluation Statement In light of changes in Board composition and the significant events of Structure, people and succession planning: 2009, we reviewed our Board evaluation process before starting the Decision-making processes, including the culture for effective challenge: review for 2009.
This included considering whether or not to use an external facilitator and reviewing and interviewing a number of alternative Information flows and presentations: external facilitators.
Board structure and composition, including non-executive experience The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and knowledge: decided to use an external facilitator again in 2009.
It felt that in order to get the maximum benefit from an evaluation exercise, interviews with Board roles and responsibilities: Directors must be conducted as these tend to be far more informative Board and management relationships: than questionnaires alone.
The Committee also felt that it was appropriate to conduct such an external review given the question-marks Board Meetings: and that have been raised over corporate governance in the sector and Board Committees.
following publication of the Walker Review.
The 2009 evaluation was again independently facilitated by Egon The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board in February 2010.
The Committee felt that their proposal for a The results focused on key themes rather than on direct feedback from refreshed approach to evaluation, including an increased emphasis on the questionnaires.
Board relationships and a broader remit with input being sought from key The themes that will form the basis of the action plan for 2010 include: executives below Board level, was the most appropriate process.
The Board confirms that it does not believe there is a conflict of interest in the Board size and diversity: business relationship with Egon Zehnder International as executive holding additional Board meetings overseas, particularly given the search consultants and Board evaluation facilitators, particularly as the increased size of our operations in the US: Group has relationships with other search firms.
The evaluation process is rigorous and took the form of increasing the visibility of senior executives below Board and Group questionnaires, which were shortened this year to focus on the elements Executive Committee level: and that need to be monitored.
These questionnaires were completed by improving the format of strategy presentations to the Board.
Director and other key executives, who then had individual interviews with Egon Zehnder.
The individual meetings with Egon Zehnder focused I held private meetings with the non-executive Directors in early on overall Board composition, a review of key decisions taken by the 2010 so that individual and general results could be discussed.
Bespoke Board, the quality of information flows, the quality of debate, the development plans are then agreed with each non-executive Director in effectiveness of the Board Committees and Board dynamics, particularly relation to their own performance.
with a view to assessing whether the interaction of the Board creates a As Chairman, I had regular meetings with shareholders and kept whole that is greater than the sum of its parts.
The process underpinning the Board fully informed of their views.
Details of communications with key decisions taken by the Board during the year was also reviewed.
In shareholders are set out on page 168 in the section on Relations with addition, the evaluation exercise seeks Directors views on the appropriate Shareholders.
size and composition of the Board, including identifying any gaps in skills and experience around the Board table.
The evaluation covered the following areas: Group performance: Strategy and performance objectives, including non-executive Marcus Agius Director involvement: Group Chairman Reporting to shareholders and stakeholders: 9th Mar ch 2010 166 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Go online The Board Risk Committee terms of reference Corporate governance are available from the corporate governance section of our website at: www.
com corporategovernance Corporate governance report continued Governance of Risk Board Risk Committee David Booth Chairman from 1st January 2010 Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman to 31st December 2009 Reuben Jeffery III from 1st January 2010 Sir Andrew Likierman Sir Michael Rake Stephen Russell to 31st October 2009 Patience Wheatcroft 1st May-16th June 2009 Secretary Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson In addition to the Members of the Committee, all meetings are usually attended by the Group Finance Director and Chief Risk Officer.
Barclays Internal Audit Director, Group General Counsel and Barclays external auditor, as well as other senior executives, also attend meetings of the Board Risk Committee, where appropriate.
Board Risk Committee Chairmans Statement Context How the Committee goes about its business.
Barclays has long recognised the importance of ensuring that the Board It has been an essential feature of the operation of the Committee that and its Committees devote sufficient attention to risk, particularly as it is the information flowing to the Committee is congruent with the only by taking appropriate levels of risk that Banks can make a profit.
A information flow to Executive Committee.
In the case of the Group Risk Board level Risk Committee has been in existence since 1999 and a key role Profile Report see below, the report is identical.
of the Committee is to analyse, understand and monitor the key risks taken The Committee plans its forward programme and undertakes a by the business to generate profit and create shareholder value.
The number of key tasks throughout the course of the year in order to ensure Committee focuses on risks taken deliberately and overtly, such as credit, it is satisfied with the way risk is being managed.
A key role is to review market, capital and liquidity risk, rather than the risks of simply doing in detail at the end of every year the proposed Risk Appetite for the business, such as operational risk.
The Committee, in analysing and forthcoming year, before recommending it to the Board.
monitoring risk, is acting on behalf of the Board and it was an essential part The Committee monitors risk performance throughout the year to of my role as Chairman to ensure that the Committee alerts the Board to assess whether such performance is in line with expectations when the issues of concern.
budget was set, adjusted for any differences in the performance of the The Committee itself is comprised solely of independent noneconomy.
Where actual performance differs from expectations, the executive directors.
However, the Group Finance Director and Chief Risk actions being taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the Officer attend each meeting as a matter of course and the Chief Risk Committee is comfortable with them.
Officer has a dotted reporting line to me as Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee also reviews sectoral limits in both the wholesale I have regular meetings with Robert Le Blanc, the Chief Risk Officer, who and retail sectors and in market risk.
The purpose of these limits, known also has the right and indeed responsibility to elevate issues to me where internally as Mandate and Scale limits, is to ensure that concentrations he considers it necessary.
I am also consulted by the Group Finance in the risk profile do not result in unacceptable levels of losses.
Director in respect of the performance appraisal and compensation of the The Committee, in conjunction with the risk function, also seeks Chief Risk Officer.
His compensation is approved by the Board HR and to identify potential future areas of risk in order to undertake detailed Remuneration Committee and appointment to or departures from the role analysis and review.
A good example of this would be the Committees are a matter reserved to the Board.
review of the US mortgage business, which was requested at the end of The Committee is conscious, when undertaking its duties, that banks 2006.
The Committee will also, as part of its calendar of business, review are in the business of taking risk.
The aim of the risk function within experience of past risk events and seek to identify any lessons learnt in Barclays and the Board Risk Committee itself is therefore not to minimise order to ensure they are embedded into business practices.
It also seeks risk but to optimise it.
This requires us to ensure that risks being taken are: to compare Barclays risk stance with those of others to understand the relative risk being taken.
properly identified and understood, both in their own right and relative to The Committee also monitors the Groups capital and liquidity their interactions with other risks we are taking: position throughout the year to ensure they are within the agreed Risk appropriate, relative to the scale and type of our business: Appetite parameters.
Finally, the Committee regularly reviews how risk is measured within affordable, particularly in relation to the capital base of the company: the business in order to ensure it is satisfied with the risk measurement properly controlled and managed: and systems in place.
earning an appropriate return, i. e. one commensurate with the risk taken.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 167 Board Risk Committee Chairmans Statement continued Activities in 2009 sector limits.
Risk models in use in the business must also include more During 2009, the Committee undertook the following activities: subjectivity and bespoke analysis when rating complex financial structures.
Action is underway in all these areas.
Reviewed a full Group Risk Profile Report quarterly.
The Group Risk Profile Report incorporates: Mandate and Scale Limits The Committee reviewed the sectoral limits in place in both the Wholesale an economic overview: and Retail Credit Risk Sectors.
These limits include commercial property an update on impairment charges and loan loss rates: caps by geography, leveraged finance limits, high yield underwriting caps, limits to loans to lower grade names or credit scores and stress risk appetite utilisation: and limits by different types of market risk e. g. interest rate, foreign exchange, commodity.
sections on retail and wholesale credit risk by business unit, market risk and operational risk.
Governance The Committee spent time discussing both the Turner Review and the Capital and Liquidity draft and final Walker Review and, in particular, how the recommendations The Committee monitored movement in economic and regulatory capital should be reflected in the Committees terms of reference and way of demand and supply and the level of losses that could be experienced before working.
Some minor changes have been made as a result.
minimum regulatory capital ratios are breached.
The Committee also reviewed and recommended to the Board the liquidity risk appetite of the Relationship with other Committees Group to ensure that sufficient liquidity is held to cover both market-wide The Committee must work closely with both the Board Audit Committee and Barclays specific stress scenarios.
and the Board HR and Remuneration Committee.
In respect of the Board Audit Committee, a schedule has been agreed setting out the key roles Key risk issues of each committee in areas such as capital and liquidity to ensure there is Each year, the Committee ensures it has a forward programme of issues clarity of responsibility.
The Committee discussed papers from the risk to analyse in detail.
During 2009, the Committee analysed the risk profiles function on the assessment of business performance on a risk-adjusted and controls in the following businesses: basis and the proposals for risk metrics to be used in the 2010 the Commodities business in Barclays Capital: compensation cycle, in both cases prior to submission to the Board HR and Remuneration Committee as an input into compensation decisions.
the Emerging Markets business in GRCB: and In conclusion, the Committee seeks to ensure that it achieves a the US equities business.
balance each year between: The Committee also received regular reports on the Groups exposures to comparative analysis reviewing our risk stance compared to that the asset backed securities ABS and leveraged credit market exposures of our competitors in defined areas: and how these were being managed down.
retrospective analysis we undertake a retrospective review at least Stress Testing once a year of a selected area of risk: The Committee reviewed and approved the scenarios to be used in the trend analysis we look once a year at underlying risk trends: and annual stress testing and reviewed the results of the tests themselves to ensure that the Group would remain adequately capitalised and liquid technical analysis we review at least once a year one technical area even under severe stress.
related to the measurement and management of risk.
Risk Appetite The quality of papers is vital to the work of the Committee, with papers Risk appetite is set by agreeing the level of credit risk impairment the Group typically including: is prepared to accept in the base case economic forecast for the following quantified analysis, including both absolute and relative data: year, together with impairment levels that would be incurred in economic scenarios that represent 1:7 and 1:25 events.
A Daily Value at Risk limit and information on returns: and stress losses for market risk in 1:7 and 1:25 scenarios is also agreed, financial parameters, such as performance against budget and capital together with total loss limits from operational risk.
The financial results of the Group are budgeted in the base case and forecast in the stress scenarios to ensure that they do not breach a series The Committee provides a full written report to the Board after every of parameters agreed by the Committee.
These parameters include pre-tax meeting, which I introduce and answer questions about.
profit, return on equity, loan loss rates, capital ratios, leverage ratios, dividend At the beginning of 2010, I handed over the Chairmanship of the and credit rating.
A key focus, given current conditions, was to ensure that Committee to David Booth after four stimulating and challenging years.
the capital ratio parameters in respect of Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 were met at all times.
Follow up on risk issues The Committee requested and received a report from the business on the lessons learnt from the sub-prime crisis.
The losses in sub-prime arose from a systemic market collapse which was not foreseen by our risk processes, the rating agencies or the broader market.
Subsequent events have highlighted areas for improvement in certain of our processes, particularly around the Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman of the Board Risk Committee need to improve the aggregation of risk positions across all businesses and to include the potential for discontinuous moves in key parameters when setting 9th March 2010 168 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued Board Risk Committee continued reviewed its Terms of Reference to satisfy itself that they enable the The Committee met five times in 2009 and Figure 9 shows how the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
Committee allocated its time at those meetings.
The items covered under More information on risk management and the internal control framework each heading in Figure 9 are as follows: can be found in the Risk management report on pages 82 to 146.
Risk Profile Risk Appetite Reviewed the Group Risk Profile Report including updates on the Groups Relations with Shareholders capital position : Communicating with shareholders is a key priority for the Board and was particularly important during the continuing financial crisis in 2009.
In the reviewed updates on liquidity risk: normal course of events, the Board aims to keep shareholders up to date and reviewed in greater detail the process around setting annual Risk Appetite informed about how Barclays is performing and its strategy.
During 2009, to establish the effectiveness of the process in responding to significant there was significant additional communication around the sudden fall in changes in economic and market conditions: the share price in January 2009, the proposed sale of the iShares business and the subsequent sale of BGI, for which we held a General Meeting in reviewed the Risk Appetite for the Group for 2010 and made August 2009. recommendations to the Board: and Institutional shareholders received regular Future Risk Trends reports, which set out the internal and Engagement with our institutional shareholders is essential to ensure a external indicators that are showing signs of strain and a report on future greater understanding of and confidence in the medium and longer-term risk issues.
strategy of Barclays and in the Boards ability to oversee its implementation.
Key Risk Issues The Group Chairman and Senior Independent Director are responsible reviewed risk trends in tax risk management: for ensuring the Board is accessible to major shareholders and that channels for communication are open.
They are also responsible for ensuring that the received regular reports on ABS and leveraged credit market exposures: Board is aware of any concerns raised by major shareholders and that their and views are taken on board.
The Group Chairman, Senior Independent reviewed the Groups stress testing proposals and outcomes.
Director, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director regularly meet with our investors and the executive Directors and senior executives hold Internal Control Risk Policies group and one to one meetings with major investors.
The Group Chairman, reviewed the internal control and assurance framework: Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary also conduct a series examined the risk control framework, and approved Group policies of meetings with the corporate governance representatives of our major including the trading book policy, large exposures policy, liquidity policy, institutional shareholders ahead of each AGM.
The Investor Relations team retail and wholesale credit impairment policies and the Groups principal organise roadshows, seminars, conferences, presentations and other risks policy: activities that enable the Directors to engage with investors and some of these are highlighted below: reviewed risk measurement methodologies: and over 100 meetings with US institutions following the acquisition of the received updates on the programme of actions being taken Group-wide Lehman Brothers North American businesses: to mitigate risk in view of deteriorating economic conditions in our major markets, such as the UK, US, South Africa and Spain.
over 200 one-to-one meetings with investors the Group Chairman and Executive Committee members : Regulatory Frameworks reviewed the liquidity risk framework and underlying assumptions: over 40 group meetings with investors: and Other nine presentations at conferences.
revised its Terms of Reference, including its role in reviewing risks following In addition, the Investor Relations team also met nearly 150 investors in the Groups entry into new businesses or geographies: its role in reviewing one to one and group meetings.
capital ratios, liquidity risk and its input into remuneration decisions: the increased frequency of risk, capital and liquidity reporting and the setting up of an external advisers panel for the Committee: and Fig.
9: Board Risk Committee allocation of time 2009 2008 % % 1 Risk Profile Risk Appetite 5 including capital 1 management 39 55 4 2 Key Risk Issues including 3 ABS and Leveraged 2 Credit Markets 28 35 3 Internal Control Risk Policies 4 4 4 Regulatory Frameworks 9 5 5 Other including remuneration and governance issues 20 1 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 169 Private shareholders We follow the Codes recommendations as well as developing best practices Communication with our private shareholders has also been important among other UK public companies.
The independence of our non-executive during 2009.
Personalised information was sent to shareholders for the Directors is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis and it takes into AGM in April and the General Meeting in August, which included the Notice account the guidance in the Code and the criteria we have established for of Meeting, proxy form, Circular and a question and answer booklet about determining independence, which are described on page 156. the proposed sale of BGI.
Further documents were available on the Groups Board Committees website and sent to shareholders on request.
We have a Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and We recommenced paying a dividend in December 2009 and will pay a Board HR and Remuneration rather than Compensation Committee, the final dividend for 2009 in March 2010. both of which are broadly similar in purpose and constitution to the The change in law that allows us to communicate electronically with Committees required by the NYSE Rules and whose terms of reference shareholders has enabled us to use less paper, which benefits the environment comply with the Codes requirements.
As the Group Chairman was and lowers distribution costs for the Group.
All shareholder documents are independent on appointment, the Code permits him to chair the Board available electronically as soon as they are published but shareholders can Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and be a member still receive communications in paper format if they wish.
This year we will of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee.
Except for these post the Notice of Meeting and proxy forms to all shareholders.
appointments, both Committees are composed solely of non-executive We encourage shareholders to hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore, Directors, whom the Board has determined to be independent.
We follow where shares are held electronically in a cost-effective and secure the Code recommendation that a majority of the Nominations Committee environment.
Shareholders can use our e-view service to receive their should be independent non-executive Directors, whereas the NYSE Rules shareholder documents electronically and they can also use this service to state that the Committee must be composed entirely of independent get immediate access to information relating to their personal shareholding Directors.
We comply with the NYSE Rules regarding the obligation to have and dividend history.
E-view participants can also change their details and a Board Audit Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of dividend mandates online and receive dividend tax vouchers electronically.
the US Securities Exchange Act, including the requirements relating to the Annual General Meeting General Meeting independence of Committee members.
In April 2009, we made an Annual The 2009 AGM was held on 23rd April 2009 at the Queen Elizabeth II Written Affirmation of our compliance with these requirements to the NYSE.
In accordance with best practice, all resolutions The Code also requires us to have a Board Audit Committee comprised solely of independent non-executive Directors.
However, we follow the were considered on a poll and the results were made available on our website the same day.
53.1% of the shares in issue were voted and all resolutions Code recommendations, rather than the NYSE Rules regarding the responsibilities of the Board Audit Committee, although both are broadly were approved.
All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions.
All Directors attended the 2009 comparable.
We also have a Board Risk Committee, comprised of independent non-executive Directors, which considers and discusses AGM, with the exception of Simon Fraser, who was appointed to the Board on 10th March 2009 and had a prior commitment on the day of the AGM.
policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.
A general meeting GM was held on 6th August 2009, at the Brewery, Corporate Governance Guidelines London, where shareholders were asked to approve a resolution in connection The NYSE Rules require domestic US companies to adopt and disclose with the proposed sale of the BGI business and ancillary arrangements.
There is no equivalent recommendation in 61.6% of the shares in issue were voted on a poll and the resolution was the Code but the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee approved.
The results of the poll were made available on our website on the has developed corporate governance guidelines, Corporate Governance in same day.
The Group Chairman, all of the Executive Directors and two nonBarclays, which have been approved and adopted by the Board.
executive Directors, including the Deputy Chairman, attended the GM.
The 2010 AGM will be held on Friday 30th April 2010 at the Royal Code of Ethics Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of Meeting is enclosed with this Annual The NYSE Rules require that domestic US companies adopt and disclose a Report as a separate document.
The resolutions will be considered on a poll code of business conduct and ethics for Directors, officers and employees.
and the results will be available on our website on 30th April 2010.
Rather than a single consolidated code as envisaged in the NYSE Rules, we have a number of values based business conduct and ethics policies, which Statement on US Corporate Governance Standards apply to all employees.
In addition, we have adopted a Code of Ethics for the The statement required by NYSE is set out below.
Chief Executive and senior financial officers as required by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Director independence NYSE Rules require the majority of the Board to be independent.
The Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Code requires at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman to be The NYSE listing standards require that shareholders must be given the independent.
The NYSE Rules contain detailed tests for determining opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions whether a Director is independent, whereas the Code requires the Board to those plans.
We comply with UK requirements, which are similar to the to determine whether each Director is independent in character and NYSE standards.
However, the Board does not explicitly take into consideration judgement and sets out criteria that may be relevant to that determination.
the NYSEs detailed definition of what are considered material revisions.
