Statement of corporate governance Application of principles of good corporate governance There is, and historically there has been, throughout the company and the group, a commitment to high standards of corporate governance.
The directors continue to develop procedures which ensure that, where the board considers it appropriate, the Beazley group will comply with the Combined Code on corporate governance.
Compliance with code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have, save for the composition of the board, complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The board has demonstrated its commitment to increase the number of non executives on the board in 2009 with the appointment of Padraic OConnor and Vincent Sheridan, bringing the total to seven, equalling the number of executive directors.
Dudley Fishburn stepped down from the board on 31 December 2009 and George Blunden has been appointed effective 1 January 2010.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the principles identified in the revised Combined Code have been applied by the group.
The board The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Jonathan Agnew, together with six independent non-executive directors, of which Andy Pomfret is the senior non-executive director, and seven executive directors, of which Andrew Horton is chief executive.
All six of the non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
Martin Bride joined Beazley in April 2009 as the group finance director and was appointed to the board on 5 May 2009.
Biographies of current board members appear on pages 52 and 53 of this report.
These indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well defined operational and management structure is in place and terms of reference exist for all board committees.
The roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly defined.
The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision including, inter alia: strategic matters: statutory matters: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, officers and auditors: appointments of committees and setting of terms of reference: review of group performance against budgets: approving the risk management strategy and risk appetite: approving material contracts: and determining the authority levels within which management is required to operate.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, on the basis that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
The composition of and appointments to the board of both executive and non-executive directors are considered by the nomination committee.
The recommendations of the nomination committee are ultimately made to the full board, which considers them before any change is made.
The remuneration committee considers any remuneration package of executive directors before it is offered to a potential appointee.
The members of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are set out on pages 55 and 56.
Any director appointed by the board during the year is required, under the provisions of the companys articles of association, to retire and seek re-election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
The articles also require that each director retires and seeks re-election at an annual general meeting at least once in any three-year period.
The company has adopted Beazley Group plcs the former holding company of the Beazley group retirement by rotation policy.
Full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the companys remuneration policy are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 58 to 69.
The members of the remuneration committee and the principal terms of reference of the committee appear on page 58.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Meetings with non-executive directors The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
Board performance evaluation In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, the board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees in 2009 and the issues identified and recommendations from the evaluation are being implemented.
Individual attendance by directors at regular meetings of the board and of committees The number of meetings of Beazley Group plc the former holding company of the Beazley group and Beazley plc has been combined when determining the individual attendance by directors.
In addition to the 5 regular board meetings, there were a further 7 meetings to finalise the various corporate transactions that took place in 2009.
Attendance of these meetings was generally high.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination No.
attended J G W Agnew 5 5 3 3 A F Beazley 5 4 M L Bride 4 4 J D Fishburn 5 4 8 6 6 5 3 2 N H Furlonge 5 5 J G Gray 5 5 A G K Hamilton 5 5 8 8 6 6 3 3 D A Horton 5 5 D Jones 5 5 5 4 6 4 3 3 P J OConnor 4 4 4 4 N P Maidment 5 5 A D Pomfret 5 5 8 8 6 5 3 3 V J Sheridan 4 4 4 4 C A Washbourn 5 4 Dan Jones was appointed to the audit committee on 12 February 2009, Vincent Sheridan was appointed to the audit committee and Padraic OConnor was appointed to the remuneration committee on 9 June 2009.
On 1 January 2010 George Blunden was also appointed to the audit committee and the nomination committee.
In 2008 we reported attendance at the investment committee.
This was re-constituted from 1 January 2009 and now forms part of the executive management committees.
Board committees The company has established properly constituted audit, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
Audit committee The audit committee currently comprises Gordon Hamilton committee chairman from 1 January 2010, Vincent Sheridan, Dan Jones and George Blunden.
Andy Pomfret was the chairman of this committee until 31 December 2009 when he assumed the chair of the remuneration committee.
Dudley Fishburn was also a member and attended meetings until his resignation on 31 December 2009.
The committee regularly meets without any executive management being present and the committee holds regular meetings with the head of internal audit, and with the external auditor.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 55 Statement of corporate governance continued The committees main objectives are, inter alia: to monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements and any other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance: review significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, before submission to and approval by, the board, and before clearance by the external auditors: review the companys internal financial controls and the companys internal control and risk management systems: approve the appointment or termination of appointment, of the head of internal audit and monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: and review the arrangements by which employees of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The committee also reviews any matters raised by the auditors and internal audit.
The chief executive, the finance director, and the risk management director are invited to attend part of each meeting of this committee.
The audit committee received presentations during the year on a number of matters including US underwriting activities, the new investment arrangements and risk management.
The external auditors are invited to attend meetings regularly.
The auditors have unrestricted access to the members of the audit committee, and the committee ensures that meetings are used as an open avenue of communication between compliance, internal audit, the external auditors and the board.
The committee receives regular updates and monitors the status of actions taken by management to address issues raised by both external and internal audit.
Risk management provides reports to the audit committee on the risk assessment and the self-certification from risk owners of the operating effectiveness of internal controls.
The audit committee undertakes a regular appraisal of its performance in relation to best practice.
Findings of this review are formally reported to the board.
In respect of any firm of external auditors and consulting actuaries which may be appointed by any group company, the audit committee is also responsible for recommending their appointment and termination: recommending their terms of reference: receiving regular reports, independent of management where necessary: determining their independence: monitoring their performance: and approving their fees.
Following a recommendation from the audit committee, the board has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The objective is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors objectivity.
The policy specifically disallows certain activities to be provided by the auditor such as bookkeeping and accounting services, internal actuarial service and executive remuneration services.
The policy requires pre-approval for all other material services such as due diligence assistance, tax services and advice on accounting and audit matters.
The aim is to limit the total spend on non-audit services to a maximum of the annual audit fee unless it is deemed to be in the shareholders interest from an efficiency and effectiveness point of view.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review is disclosed on page 97.
All of these are considered by the audit committee not to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
The committees terms of reference are published on the companys website.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee comprises Andy Pomfret who was appointed chairman from 1 January 2010 following Dudley Fishburns retirement, Dan Jones, Gordon Hamilton and Padraic OConnor.
The work of the remuneration committee is covered further in the directors remuneration report on pages 58 to 69.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys office during normal business hours.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are published on the companys website.
Nomination committee The nomination committee consists of Jonathan Agnew as the chairman, together with George Blunden, Andy Pomfret, Gordon Hamilton and Dan Jones.
George Blunden joined the committee on 1 January 2010.
Dudley Fishburn left this committee following his resignation from the company on 31 December 2009.
It meets as required and makes recommendations to the board on all board appointments, including the selection of non-executive directors.
During 2009 the nomination committee carried out the search for two additional non executive directors.
Independent external advisors were engaged to support the search which resulted in the nomination committee recommending the appointment of Padraic OConnor and Vincent Sheridan.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee are published on the companys website.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder communication The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The full report and accounts and the interim report will be available from www.
com and upon request, will be mailed to shareholders and to other parties who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well as general presentations, attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors to enable them to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 72 to 73, and the statement of directors on going concern on page 70.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any compliance issues and significant risks faced by the group.
The internal capital assessment process maps risks to capital requirements through review and challenge and sign-off by the board.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within parameters set by the board.
The key procedures that the directors have established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of this size include the day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors.
Other internal control procedures and reviews for effectiveness by the board include: Preparation of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting as prescribed by the board for review by the various group committees: review of financial, operational and compliance reports from management: and review of any significant issues arising from the external audits.
Further information on the role of the audit committee is set out above.
The committee, on behalf of the board, approves the internal audit project plan and any subsequent changes.
Internal audit reports directly to the audit committee, whose terms of reference include approving the appointment or termination of appointment, of the head of internal audit and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function.
In 2009 the audit committee was involved in the recruitment of a new head of internal audit to replace the existing member of staff who transferred to the US to head up our US compliance function there.
The new head of internal audit joined the company in January 2010.
Further information on risk management at Beazley is contained on pages 46 to 48.
