Corporate Governance Background them for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards Meeting, given their material level of contribution.
of corporate governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Board has put in Any Director who will have served on the Board for more than place a framework for corporate governance which it believes nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
The Directors is appropriate for an investment trust and which will enable the support a planned and progressive renewing of the Board.
Company to comply with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008.
The terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to Additionally, as the Company is a member of the Association of them when they join the Board.
These letters are available for Investment Companies the AIC, the Board has taken inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be account of the recommendations of the AICs Code of available at the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance the AIC Code which complements the Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he is provided for investment trust companies.
with all relevant information regarding the Company and his duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Compliance Director will also spend some time with representatives of the The Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report Investment Manager whereby he will become familiar with the to ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
It various processes which the Manager considers necessary for should be noted that as an investment trust, most of the the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Companys day to day responsibilities are delegated to third Company.
The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to parties, the Company has no employees and the Directors are keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which non-executive.
Thus not all of the provisions of the Combined are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company.
The Code are directly applicable to the Company.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the auditors and Company Secretary regarding any proposed The Board considers that the Company has complied with the developments or changes in laws or regulations that could provisions contained within the Combined Code throughout this affect the Company and or the Directors.
accounting period, except as explained below, and this statement describes how these principles of governance are The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a applied to the Company.
form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a The Board material nature are determined by the Board.
The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Companys Investment The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Manager.
Their individual independence, including that of Insurance cover throughout the year.
the Chairman, has been considered, and this independence allows all of the Directors to sit on the Companys Boards responsibilities various committees.
The Board meets at least five times a year and between these meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager.
Mr Sage has acted as the Senior Independent Director The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall throughout 2009.
The provision of the Combined Code which management of the Company.
It reserves to itself decisions relates to the combination of the roles of the chairman and relating to the determination of investment policy, any change in chief executive does not apply as the Company has no investment strategy, strategic gearing policy, policy on the buy executive directors.
The Directors biographies, on page 16, back and issue of shares, whether to hold shares in treasury, demonstrate a breadth of investment, commercial and and entering into any material contracts.
The Board also sets professional experience which enables them to provide effective investment parameters, such as the acquisition or disposal of strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
substantial interests and the maximum amount that can be invested in unquoted investments.
In addition, changes relating The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General to the Groups capital structure, approval of circulars to Meeting and any Directors appointed to the Board since the shareholders and listing particulars, relevant press releases and previous Annual General Meeting also retire and stand for any significant change in accounting policies or practices must election.
The Directors retiring by rotation in accordance with also be approved by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters the Companys Articles of Association are Mr Barby and specifically reserved for decision by the Board has been defined.
The Board has considered the position of Mr Barby and Mr Buchan as part of the evaluation process and believes The Directors also have access to the advice and services of that it would be in the Companys best interests to propose the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for 26 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it Committees of the Board complies with applicable rules and regulations.
Where As the Board is small and comprises only non-executive necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, the Directors Directors it fulfils the function of the Nomination Committee may seek independent professional advice at the expense of which will meet when necessary to select and propose suitable the Company.
Should a vacancy occur or the Board decide to recruit new members, the Board will take into The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company account the size, balance and profile of the Board as a whole to keeps proper accounting records which disclose with identify any areas that need strengthening.
Due to the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the specialist nature of the investment mandate, and the difficulty Company and which enable it to ensure that the financial in finding new Directors with knowledge of the mining sector, statements comply with the Companies Act.
It is the Boards the existing Directors will try to identify suitable individuals responsibility to present a balanced and understandable from their range of contacts, although other sources, including assessment, which extends to interim and other price-sensitive external search consultants, may also be used as required.
A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Committee has been established and is made up of the the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention independent Directors, including the Chairman of the and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board considers that at least one member of the Committee has sufficient recent and relevant financial Performance evaluation experience for it to discharge its function effectively.
The The Board formally reviews its performance on a regular basis Chairman of the Company is a member of this Committee to and an appraisal system has been agreed for the evaluation of enable him to be kept fully informed of any issues which may the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, including arise.
The terms of reference of this Committee are available the Chairman.
on request and on the Investment Managers website at www.
co. uk its under the Literature section and will The annual evaluation for the year ended 31 December 2009 also be available at each Annual General Meeting.
This took the form of questionnaires followed by discussions to identify how the effectiveness of its The Committee meets at least twice a year and, amongst other activities, including its Committees, policies or processes things, examines the effectiveness of the control systems.
The results of the evaluation process two planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to were presented to and discussed by the Board and it was approve the half yearly and annual results, including the agreed that the current composition of the Board reflected a valuation of any unquoted investments.
The Committee does suitable mix of skills and experience and that the Board, as a not consider that as an investment trust company it needs to whole, the individual Directors and its Committees were hold an additional meeting although this is kept under review.
During the year the principal activities of the Audit & Delegation of responsibilities Management Engagement Committee included: The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: considering and recommending to the Board for approval Management and administration the contents of the half yearly and annual financial The management of the investment portfolio and the statements and reviewing the external auditors report administration of the Company have been delegated to the thereon: Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager, operating under guidelines determined by the Board, has direct reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to day independence and objectivity of the external auditors: running of the Company and is accountable to the Board for the investment, financial and operating performance of the reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Company.
The Board has final investment authority on audit and non-audit fees payable to the external auditors unquoted investments.
Custody and settlement services are and the terms of their engagement: provided by The Bank of New York Mellon International Ltd BNYM, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon.
reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the following financial year: The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching to the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers voting policy are policies: set out on pages 19 and 20.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 27 Corporate Governance continued ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and Membership of the Audit & Management standards: and Engagement Committee Colin Buchan Chairman considering the remuneration of the Investment Manager, Ian Barby the Secretary and Administrator and reviewing the terms of Oliver Baring the investment management agreement.
Anthony Lea Gordon Sage The Committee has also reviewed and accepted the whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by the Investment Manager under which its staff, in confidence, Attendance record can raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters Board Audit of financial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect Number of Meetings held 5 2 the Company.
Number of Meetings attended Anthony Lea 5 2 The Committee considers the risks associated with audit firms Ian Barby 4 2 withdrawing from the market and the relationship with the Colin Buchan 5 2 Companys auditors.
The auditors appointment is reviewed Oliver Baring 4 2 each year and the audit partners change at least once every Gordon Sage 4 2 five years.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
Internal controls Other audit service fees of 5,500 excluding VAT paid to The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Ernst & Young LLP, relate to their review of the half yearly Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring financial statements.
The Committee considers whether the that financial information published or used within the skills and experience of the auditors make them a suitable business is reliable, and for regularly monitoring compliance supplier of the non audit service and whether there are with regulations governing the operation of investment trusts.
safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to their The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit systems on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and manage resulting from the provision of such services.
As part of that process, there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate any failings On an annual basis Ernst & Young LLP review the or weaknesses.
Should a case be categorised by the Board as independence of their relationship with the Company and significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is report to the Board, providing details of any other relationship taken to remedy the failings.
The Board is not aware of any with the Investment Manager.
The Board has concluded that significant failings or weaknesses in the year.
Ernst & Young LLP are independent of the Company and the Investment Manager.
Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the The external auditors are invited to attend the Audit & operations of the Investment Manager and BNYM.
There is a Management Engagement Committee meeting at which the monitoring and reporting process to review these controls, annual accounts are considered and at which they have the which has been in place throughout the year under review and opportunity to meet with the Committee without up to the date of this report, carried out by the Investment representatives of the Investment Manager being present.
This accords with the guidance in the Turnbull Report.
As the Board is small it fulfils the function of the Remuneration Committee which will meet when necessary to The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its review determine the remuneration of the Directors.
The of internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis and remuneration of the Chairman and Directors is reviewed verbally at each Board and Audit & Management Engagement against the fees paid to directors of other specialist investment Committee meeting.
The Audit & Management Engagement trusts and investment trusts of a comparable size, as well as Committee also receives a report from BNYM on the internal taking account of any data published by the Association of controls of its custodial operations.
The Company does not Investment Companies.
have its own internal audit function, as all the administration is delegated to the Investment Manager.
This matter is kept under review.
The Board recognises that these control systems can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 28 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, Board meeting any feedback from meetings with shareholders, and relies on the operating controls established by the and it also receives reports from its corporate broker.
There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and Information, on pages 57 to 59, which provides an overview of management accounts which allow the Board to assess the useful information available to shareholders.
Companys activities and review its performance.
The Companys accounts are also published on The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly www.
co. uk its which is the website maintained by defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and the Companys Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including Management UK Limited.
The work undertaken by the performance statistics and investment valuations, are auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and submitted to the Board at each meeting.
integrity of the website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Financial reporting accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the Financial Statements is set out on page 30, the Report of the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Independent Auditors on pages 31 and 32 and the Statement of of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Socially Responsible Investment The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, and also takes into account environmental policies and other business issues.
The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to meet its stated objectives.
The Investment Managers policies on Socially Responsible Investment and Corporate Governance in the UK are detailed on their website www.
co. uk its, in the Investment Trust Literature section.
Communication with shareholders All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors Report on pages 21 to 23.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to shareholders and the Investment Manager reviews the Companys activities at the Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting figures will be announced to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and will be made available on the Investment Managers website shortly after the Meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 29
