38 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Nomination Committee Report This Nomination Committee Report sets to recommend the re-election or not Report of the Committees activities out the role of the Nomination Committee, by shareholders of any director under the During the reporting period, the Committee its membership and what it considered retirement and re-election provisions in fulfilled its duties as outlined below: during the year.
the Companys Articles of Association: undertook a rigorous review of the to make a statement in the Annual Report composition and structure of the Board Role of the Committee about its activities: and its Committees, giving consideration The purpose of the Nomination Committee to make available its Terms of Reference to the skills and knowledge of the current is to consider, and make recommendations upon request and display them on the members and the time required by each to the Board concerning its composition, Companys website: and to fulfil their duties: proposed appointees and whether any to ensure that on appointment to the made recommendations to the Board for vacancies that may arise should be filled.
Board, non-executive directors receive re-election of Directors at the 2009 AGM: formal written terms of appointment.
and The principal duties of the Nomination reviewed the relevant sections of the Committee include the following: The Committee has written Terms of Report and Accounts prior to publication.
to review regularly the structure, size and Reference which are available for inspection composition of the Board including its on the Companys website.
The Terms are Support to the Committee skills, knowledge and experience and reviewed on an annual basis both by the When required, the Committee receives make recommendations to the Board Committee and the Board as a whole.
information from senior management, with regard to any changes: and external advisors as necessary, to identify, nominate and recommend Membership to enable it to carry out its duties and for the approval of the Board, appropriate The Nomination Committee comprises responsibilities effectively.
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and the non-executive directors, Terence Eccles, when they arise: as Chairman, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Tom Cross The Company Secretary is the Secretary of to satisfy itself with regard to succession Brown and Alan Gibbins.
the Committee and his services are available planning that processes and plans are to the Committee Chairman.
in place with regard to both Board and Meetings senior management appointments: The Committee met once during the financial to review annually the time required to year, with apologies received from Hans-Jrg fulfil the role of the Chairman, senior Rudloff on that occasion.
independent director and each nonexecutive director and to use performance evaluation to assess whether each nonexecutive director has devoted sufficient time to their duties:
