Directors Review 39 Audit Committee Report This Audit Committee Report sets out the Membership Report of the Committees activities role of the Audit Committee, its membership The Committee is chaired by Alan Gibbins.
During the year the Audit Committee and what it considered during the year.
His biography, and that of the other members discharged its responsibilities as set out in of the Committee, can be found on page 30. its terms of reference by undertaking the Role of the Committee following work: The Board has delegated to the Committee As at 30 June 2009, the Committee was meeting prior to the release of the Groups responsibility for overseeing the financial comprised solely of the independent financial information, including the annual reporting and internal control of the Group non-executive directors, Alan Gibbins, and interim reports, and each of the and for maintaining an appropriate Terence Eccles and Tom Cross Brown.
interim management statements in order relationship with the Groups auditors.
The to review the content: thereby also main role of the Committee is to encourage The Board is satisfied that at least one considering the suitability of the and safeguard the highest standards of member of the Committee has recent accounting policies and reviewing any financial reporting integrity, risk management and relevant financial experience.
reporting issues or areas of judgement and internal control.
In doing this the principal applied in compiling the statements: responsibilities of the Committee include: The Committee has written Terms of reviewing the annual report disclosures reviewing the form, content and integrity Reference which are reviewed annually by on items relevant to the Committee: of the Group and Companys Financial both the Committee itself and the Board reviewing the internal audit plan Statements: as a whole.
The Terms are available on the for the period: monitoring and reviewing the Companys website.
receiving and reviewing internal audit effectiveness of the external and internal reports, discussing their findings and audit functions: Meetings managements responses: recommending to the Board the The Committee met four times during the reviewing the scope and nature of the appointment, reappointment or removal financial year and invited the Chairman, audit with the auditors prior to the of the external auditor: Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, commencement of the audit, as well as reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel, receiving the auditors engagement letter of the Groups internal controls and risk Compliance Officer and senior members and agreeing the relevant fees: management systems: and of both the internal and external auditors evaluating the continued independence ensuring that suitable procedures are to attend several of the meetings.
The of the external auditors with a view to in place for employees to raise concerns Committee met with each of the internal and recommending or not their continued about improprieties in matters pertaining external auditors without the presence of any appointment: to any area of operation within executive directors or other senior members receiving regular reports from the the Company.
of staff present prior to the publication Compliance Officer in relation to the of the year-end financial statements.
Companys compliance with relevant regulation: Attendance by Committee members is reviewing the effectiveness of the internal indicated in the table below.
control and risk management procedures in accordance with the Turnbull guidance Meetings attended 2005: and reviewing and approving the Assurance Terence Eccles 3 4 Report on Internal Controls.
Tom Cross Brown 4 4 Alan Gibbins 4 4 The minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to all Board members.
40 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Non-audit services and external auditor independence The Committee monitors the level of nonaudit work carried out by the auditors and seeks assurances from the auditors that they and their staff have no family, financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company outside of the normal course of business.
Furthermore, the Committee also seeks assurances that the auditors themselves maintain suitable policies and processes ensuring independence and monitoring compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements on an annual basis.
The Company operates on the basis whereby the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is permissible where no conflict of interest arises, where the independence of the auditors is not likely to be impinged by undertaking the work and the quality and objectivity of both the non-audit work and audit work will not be compromised.
A new audit partner was in place for the review of the Interim Financial Statement and the statutory audit for 2009.
Given the performance of the auditors, including the new partner during the course of the financial year, a resolution will be proposed at the 2009 AGM to reappoint PwC for 2010 and also allow the Board to set their remuneration.
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent.
Support to the Committee The Committee received information and support from management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee Chairman met regularly with the Chief Financial Officer throughout the period.
The Assistant Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
