BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Corporate Governance Principles The Company is committed to very high standards of corporate governance and, having reviewed the Combined Code, considers that it has established procedures to ensure that it complies with the Combined Code, subject to the exceptions explained below and its special circumstances as an offshore investment company.
The Board comprises five non-executive directors all of whom are independent for the purposes of the Code and Listing Rule 15.2.
12A except for Andrew Dodd, who is a director of the Investment Manager of AllBlue Limited.
Biographies of the directors appear on pages 7 and 8, demonstrating the wide range of skills and experience they bring to the Board.
There is no Chief Executive position within the Company, which is not in accordance with provision A.
Being a self managed investment company the Company has no employees and therefore no requirement for a Chief Executive.
The Board meets at least four times a year to consider the business and affairs of the Company for the previous quarter.
Between these quarterly meetings the Board meets to consider specific matters of a transactional nature and there is regular contact with the Secretary.
During the year under review the Board met eighteen times.
The directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the directors.
The directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to professional advice at the expense of the Company.
During the year under review the Board met seventeen times.
Of those seventeen meetings, Messrs Crowder, Hooley and Le Prevost attended fourteen, Mr Meader attended ten and Mr Dodd attended six.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Jonathan Hooley, Mr Paul Meader and Mr Richard Crowder.
Jonathan Hooley has been appointed as Chairman.
Under the provisions of the Code, Richard Crowder, Chairman of the Company, is not considered to be independent, although he was considered to be independent on appointment.
However, the Board considers that excluding the Chairman from membership of the Committee would not be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual and halfyearly financial reports, the interim management statements, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
