Corporate Governance The Directo rs are committed to a high standard of corporate acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing the governance and to compliance with the best practice provisions of Groups systems of control and risk management: approving the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2008 by appointments to the Board and the Company Secretary: approving the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code for which policies relating to Directors remuneration and the severance of the Board is accountable to the shareholders.
The following Directors contracts: and ensuring that a reasonable discourse statement and the Directors Remuneration Report on page 26 occurs with shareholders.
explain how the principles set out in the Combined Code have Appropriate training and induction is made available to newly been applied by the Group and details the Groups compliance with appointed directors, taking into account any previous experience the Combined Code provisions for the year.
they may already have as a director of a public limited company or The Board otherwise.
Training sessions are carried out for the entire Board At the end of the year the Board had twelve members, comprising when appropriate.
Executive members of the Board have to date seven Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
During been appointed from within the Group and have served on the the year Christopher Legge and Simon Still retired: their Brewin Dolphin Limited Board prior to appointment.
resignations were accepted by the Board at close of business on The Roles of the Executive Chairman and Non-Executive 25 September 2009.
Biographies of all the current Directors are Deputy Chairman presented on page 15, all of whom have served throughout the The Executive Chairman, Jamie Matheson, has four direct reports: year.
One third of the Board is required to be re-elected each year.
Finance Director, Robin Bayford: Head of Investment Management, Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the Board to David McCorkell: Head of Regulation, Barry Howard and Head of be independent.
There is a clear division of duties between the Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meeting attendance Deputy Chairman, with terms of reference that have been clearly Audit Remuneration Nomination defined in writing and are reviewed annually and agreed by the Board Committee Committee Committee Board.
This ensures that a clear balance of power and authority is Total Meetings Held 11 5 3 2 present.
J Matheson 11 R Bayford 11 Re-appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors B Howard 11 William Nicholas Hood, David William McCorkell, Michael John D McCorkell 11 S Soar 11 Ross Williams and Francis Edward Jock Worsley all retire by I Speke 11 rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
M Williams 11 W Hood 10 5 3 2 It is the view of the Board that David McCorkell and Michael A Knight 10 S Lamport 8 3 Williams continue to perform effectively and it is appropriate for S Miller 11 5 2 2 them to continue to serve as Directors of the Company.
F Worsley 11 5 3 2 S Still 9 The roles of Nick Hood and Jock Worsley as Non-Executive C Legge 9 Directors have been reviewed and it is the view of the Board that they continue to make a valuable contribution to the Board both The Non-Executive Directors meet with the Executive Chairman demonstrating commitment to their roles.
prior to most Board meetings.
On four occasions during the period the Non-Executive Directors met on their own.
Directors Conflicts of Interest A new statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest with The Board maintains a schedule of matters reserved for the Board the Company came into force in October 2008.
The Companys which is reviewed annually by the Company Secretary.
The specific Articles of Association, adopted in July 2008, allow the directors to responsibilities retained by the Board include: establishing Group authorise conflicts of interest, and the Board has adopted a policy strategy and approving the annual budget: reviewing the Groups and effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, operational and financial performance: approving major 20 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Brighton Pavillion Brighton Pier 21 21 Corporate Governance continued approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
This is a The Audit Committee met five times during the period under review recurring Agenda item at all Board meetings and gives each and all meetings were fully attended by all members, with the Director the opportunity to raise any conflict of interest they may exception of Sir Stephen Lamport who sent his apologies on two have, or to update the Board on any change to a previous conflict occasions.
A Register of Conflicts is held by the The Audit Committee maintains a formal calendar of items that are Company Secretary and referred to when decisions are made.
to be considered at each committee meeting and within the annual A log of all conflicts raised is maintained and updated accordingly.
audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of All Directors are aware that it is their responsibility to raise and the Code.
update any conflicts of interest they may have.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: Committees of the Board The Board has three standing committees: the Nominations monitoring of the work of both the Internal Audit Department Committee: the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Risk Management Department: Committee.
These committees have written terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly and any amendments approved by considering the reports received from the Compliance the Board.
Membership of the committees is as set out on page 2.
Department and Risk Management Departments: The terms of reference of the Committees can be viewed on the Companys website, together with Committee membership.
Sight of reviewing the Companys procedures for handling allegations all Directors contracts, or, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: and letters of appointment, can be obtained via the Company Secretary.
reviewing the scope and findings of the reports from the All the Committees are able to call on independent professional external auditors and the Groups interim and annual financial advisers if they consider it necessary.
statements prior to their submission to the Board.
Nominations Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are Nick Hood During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities Chairman, Jock Worsley and Simon Miller.
The Nominations as set out in its terms of reference by undertaking the following Committee is responsible for the Boards succession planning.
work: The Nominations Committee met twice during the year and both reviewing the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the meetings were fully attended by all members.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed significant Remuneration Committee accounting policies, financial reporting issues and judgements The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Nick Hood and the and reports from the external auditors: other members are Simon Miller and Jock Worsley.
There were three meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year and reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, the it was fully attended by all members, save that Simon Miller sent his external auditors strategy and plan for the audit and the apologies on one occasion.
The Directors Remuneration Report is qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the presented on page 26, which gives further information.
external auditors: Audit Committee reviewing and approving the internal auditors annual plan and The members of the Audit Committee are Jock Worsley Chairman, reviewing all reports from internal audits: Nick Hood, Simon Miller and Sir Stephen Lamport.
The Finance Director, Head of Regulation, the Head of Internal Audit and the reviewing regular reports from the Groups Head of Regulation: Company Secretary normally attend all Audit Committee meetings at the Committees request.
The Board is satisfied that at least one receiving regular reports from the Groups Risk Management member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial Committee: experience.
22 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC  reviewing the Groups ICAAP and Groups annual Corporate Board Evaluation Risk Review: An annual evaluation of the Boards performance and that of its sub-committees, individual Directors and Chairman is undertaken.
 reviewing and agreeing the scope of the audit work to be Each Director receives a Board Performance Evaluation undertaken by the external auditors and the fees to be paid to Questionnaire and separate committee performance evaluation the external auditors: and forms where appropriate for use in assessing the Boards own performance and that of its Committees.
The responses to the  reviewing the Audit Committees own terms of reference.
questionnaires were considered and discussed with the Chairman.
A report was prepared on the results of the evaluation process The external auditors meet privately with the Audit Committee at and considered by the Board at its meeting in September 2009. least twice a year without senior executive management being No major changes were implemented as a result of this review.
The Deputy Chairman as Senior Independent Director carried out a review of the Chairman.
Auditors Independence The Board uses the auditors for audit and related activities.
It Relationship with Shareholders generally does not use the auditors for non-audit services unless The Company places a great deal of importance on communication there are appropriate reasons for doing so, thereby retaining their with shareholders and aims to keep shareholders informed by objectivity and independence.
An analysis of auditors remuneration regular communication.
The Groups Executive Chairman, Head of is provided in note 9 to the financial statements.
The majority of tax Investment Management and Finance Director meet regularly with advisory and similar work is carried out by another major the Groups institutional investors and the Groups website is kept accountancy firm.
up-to-date covering all corporate activity.
The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective communication with all of its It is the policy of the Boa rd formally to review the appointment of shareholders.
The Company welcomes all shareholders to its AGM, auditors every six years: a review was last carried out in 2007. with the opportunity to ask questions formally at the meeting or The Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the more informally afterwards.
The Companys policy is to announce reappointment of the auditors be proposed to the shareholders at the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the AGM.
shareholders who are clients of Brewin Dolphin Limited and who hold their shares in one of our nominee accounts, we provide an Company Secretary on-line voting service on the Group website for shareholders to The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on vote before our AGM.
all Corporate Governance matters as well as ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees.
All Directors Internal Control and Risk Management have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may The Board undertakes a full review of all aspects of the Groups take, if necessary, independent, professional advice at the business, identifies the main risks to the business and identifies the Companys expense.
key controls to counter these risks.
Day-to-day review and monitoring has been delegated to both the Investment Insurance Management Risk Controls Committee IMRCC and Investment The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Banking Risk and Controls Committee IBRCC of Brewin Dolphin litigation against the Directors.
Limited, the activities of which include overseeing and reviewing the control, monitoring and reporting frameworks and related procedures for risk management.
The IMRCC committee meets weekly, and the IBRCC monthly.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Corporate Governance continued The Compliance department and Internal Audit carry out regular Compliance with the Combined Code reviews.
The Board considers reputational risk, portfolio The Directors consider that the Company has been in full performance and the added risk of taking on new teams and compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code business streams.
The level, detail and nature of complaints are throughout the period ended 27 September 2009, except as carefully monitored.
described below: The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control The Executive Chairman did not, on appointment, meet the established by the Group, reviewing its effectiveness and reporting independence criteria set out in the Code since he had to the shareholders that they have done so.
They report as follows: previously been an employee and an Executive Director of the Company.
To ensure that there is a clear balance of power and i.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and authority an Independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman managing the significant risks faced by the Group as outlined was appointed.
There is clear division of duties between the above.
This has been in place for the period under review and Executive Chairman and the Independent Non-Executive up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Deputy Chairman with written terms of reference.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull guidance in the Combined Code.
Any system In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, of internal control is designed to highlight and manage rather the remuneration committee does not fully follow the than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business provisions in Schedule A to the Code in that in respect of objectives, and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, annual bonus payments paid to executive directors upper assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Steps are limits are not set, nor are predetermined performance criteria being taken to embed internal control and risk management applied.
This reflects the culture of the Group which is to pay further into the operations of the business and to deal with to income producing and senior management employees a areas of improvement which come to managements and the significant element of their remuneration by way of incentive Boards attention.
and not to dis-incentivise any employee through the capping of potential incentives.
It also recognises the application of ii.
Financial results, key operating statistics and controls are predetermined performance criteria is not practical for all reported to the Board monthly, and variances are followed up executive directors, given the nature of both the business and vigorously.
Monthly reports are received from the compliance their individual roles.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups system of internal controls and compliance monitoring and believe that these Angela Wright provide assurance that problems have been identified on a Secretary timely basis and dealt with appropriately throughout the period 1 December 2009 under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
There is a whistleblowing policy detailing the internal or external procedures through which employees are able to raise any concerns.
Model Code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
24 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Truro Cathedral 25 25
