96 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Financial Statements Investor Relations Financial calendar provisional Annual General Meeting 18 November 2009 First quarter Interim Management Statement November 2009 Final dividend payment 19 November 2009 Half year end 31 January 2010 Interim Results March 2010 Interim dividend payment April 2010 Third quarter Interim Management Statement May 2010 Pre close trading statement July 2010 Financial year end 31 July 2010 Preliminary Results September 2010 The financial calendar is updated on a regular basis throughout the year.
Please refer to our website www.
co. uk for up to date details.
Shareholder analysis The number of shareholders analysed by the quantity of shares they held at 31 July 2009 was: Je id %% h]VgZh &!, -' h]VgZ]daYZgh %& &!%%% &! ''
DkZg %!%%% ' % Cautionary Statement Certain statements included or incorporated by reference within this report may constitute forward-looking statements in respect of the groups operations, performance, prospects and or financial condition.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions and actual results or events may differ materially from those expressed or implied by those statements.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statement.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
No responsibility or obligation is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase any shares or other securities in the company, nor shall it or any part of it or the fact of its distribution form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or commitment or investment decisions relating thereto, nor does it constitute a recommendation regarding the shares and other securities of the company.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
Statements in this report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
Liability arising from anything in this report shall be governed by English Law.
Nothing in this report shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
