Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 27 Governance Corporate Governance The company recognises the importance of ensuring high Adequacy Assessment Process and regular updates from the standards of corporate governance in order to protect the chief executive and finance director on the performance and interests of shareholders and other stakeholders and to results of the group and the individual operating businesses.
In addition, senior executives will update the board on specific matters, including compliance, risk and internal audit.
During Compliance the year, the board has, in particular, focused on: The directors are responsible for ensuring high standards of corporate governance within the group.
The directors The external reporting of the groups financial results: confirm that the companys governance regime complies with the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the The budget for the 2009 2010 financial year: Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Funding and liquidity: Code, available at www.
cfm, except that: The disposal of the Corporate Finance division: At least half the board of directors, excluding the chairman, Capital management: were not independent.
Ray Greenshields, an independent non-executive director was appointed to the board in The implications of the Turner and Walker Reviews: and November 2008 to address this imbalance.
As stated in last years Annual Report, the board intends to appoint a The outcome of the board evaluation process.
In addition, the divisional heads of the Banking and Asset The Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee Management divisions updated the board on performance consisted of only two independent directors during the and strategic developments and initiatives in their respective period 1 August 2008 to 13 November 2008.
Greenshields was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee on his appointment Composition, balance and independence as director to address this.
At the date of this report, the board comprises eight members: the chairman, three executive directors and four The Board non-executive directors, one of whom is not regarded as Role and responsibilities independent due to his status as a director of a substantial The board is collectively responsible for ensuring the success shareholder of the company.
It sets the groups strategic objectives and provides leadership for the group as a whole.
"The board is the 7VaVcXZ d[ ZmZXji kZ VcY primary decision making body for all matters considered cdc""ZmZXji kZ Y gZXidgh significant to the group as a whole."
A formal schedule of matters is submitted to the board for its decision, which enables the board and executive management to operate within a clear governance framework.
"The schedule is reviewed annually and currently includes: Setting and monitoring strategy: Risk management: Regulatory compliance and internal control: Ensuring adequate financial resources: & 8]V gbVc & Cdc""ZmZXji kZ Y gZXidg Acquisitions and disposals over certain thresholds: cYZeZcYZci cdc""ZmZXji kZ Y gZXidgh :mZXji kZ Y gZXidgh Board appointments and removals: and Communication with shareholders."
The directors contribute a range of complementary skills, knowledge and experience.
Details of the individual directors Matters which are outside the scope of the schedule of and their biographies are set out on pages 8 and 9. matters reserved to the board are decided by executive management.
Ray Greenshields and Preben Prebensen were appointed to the board on 13 November 2008 and 1 April 2009 The board also adopts an annual schedule of rolling agenda respectively.
Colin Keogh stepped down as a director on items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration 1 April 2009. and reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
Agenda items include consideration of the annual budget and its approval, review of the Internal Capital U07387 pp25-51.
indd 27 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Serv 28 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate Governance continued The board is of the opinion that each non-executive director of Association.
The Articles of Association may be amended acts in an independent and objective manner and therefore, by special resolution of the shareholders.
under the Combined Code, is regarded as independent, with the exception of Jamie Cayzer-Colvin who is a director of a Non-executive directors are appointed by the board for an substantial shareholder.
The boards opinion was determined initial term of three years, subject to any applicable regulatory by considering for each non-executive director whether he is provisions and the continued satisfactory performance of independent in character and judgement, how he conducts their duties.
Letters of appointment are available for himself in board meetings and board committee meetings, inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal whether he has any interests which may give rise to an actual business hours at the companys registered office.
or perceived conflict of interest and whether he acts in the best interests of the company and all its shareholders at all If appointed by the board, a director must stand for retimes.
Each non-executive director is required to confirm at election by the shareholders at the next AGM.
Ray least annually, whether any circumstances exist which could Greenshields and Preben Prebensen were appointed to the impair his independence.
board on 13 November 2008 and 1 April 2009 respectively and will both stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
The structure of the board ensures that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the decision making process.
In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, all directors must stand for re-election by the shareholders at Chairman and chief executive least every three years.
The board will only recommend to The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and shareholders that executive and non-executive directors be there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two proposed for re-election at an AGM after evaluating the roles.
In accordance with the Combined Code, there is a performance of the individual directors.
At the 2009 AGM, written statement of the division of responsibilities which has Strone Macpherson and Stephen Hodges will retire by been reviewed and approved by the board.
The chairman is rotation and each intends to stand for re-election.
His other significant commitments are the performance evaluation, the board will be recommending set out in his biography on page 9.
The board is satisfied that that Strone Macpherson and Stephen Hodges be re-elected his significant commitments do not unduly restrict him from by shareholders and confirms that each continues to be carrying out his duties effectively.
effective and demonstrates commitment to his role.
As chairman, Strone Macpherson is primarily responsible for Biographies for Ray Greenshields, Preben Prebensen, leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement and Strone Macpherson and Stephen Hodges and are set out on contribution of all the directors.
His other responsibilities page 9. include setting the agenda for board meetings, providing the directors with information in an accurate, clear and timely Powers of directors manner and the promotion of effective decision making.
The The directors are responsible for the management of the chairman is also charged with ensuring that the directors company.
They may exercise all powers of the company, continually update their skills and knowledge and that the subject to any directions given by special resolution and the performance of the board, its committees and the individual Articles of Association.
The directors have been authorised to directors are evaluated on an annual basis.
allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the companys ordinary shares by virtue of resolutions The group chief executive is Preben Prebensen, who was passed at the companys AGM.
appointed to the board on 1 April 2009.
Prior to Preben Prebensens appointment, the group chief executive was Meetings and attendance Colin Keogh.
The group chief executive is primarily The board has regular scheduled meetings.
During the year responsible for the day to day management of the companys ended 31 July 2009 there were ten scheduled board meetings business.
His other responsibilities include proposing and and five ad hoc board meetings were called to deal with developing strategic objectives for the group, managing the specific time critical business matters.
There are also groups risk exposures in line with board policies, additional board meetings convened to deal with operational implementing the decisions of the board and facilitating issues.
The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a appropriate and effective communication with shareholders substantial time in advance in order to ensure the availability and regulatory bodies.
In the event that directors are unable to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they Senior independent director receive papers in the normal manner and have the The senior independent director is Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
In opportunity to relay their comments in advance of the addition to the existing channels for shareholder meeting, as well as follow up with the chairman if necessary.
communications, shareholders may discuss any issues or The same process applies in respect of the various board concerns they have with the senior independent director.
Appointment of directors The directors receive detailed and comprehensive papers in The appointment of directors is governed by the companys advance of each board meeting.
The agenda is set by the Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and other chairman in consultation with the chief executive, the finance applicable regulations and policies.
Directors may be elected director and the company secretary.
In addition, each director by shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the board is given the opportunity to review the agenda and propose of directors in accordance with the provisions of the Articles items for discussion with the chairmans agreement.
indd 28 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 29 The number of board meetings held during the year and the In addition to the independent board evaluation process, the attendance by the directors is set out in the table below: senior independent director led a separate performance review in respect of the chairman which involved a review Number of board meetings 2008 2009 with the non-executive directors excluding the chairman Scheduled Ad-hoc and separate consultation with the chief executive.
The senior 10 5 independent director subsequently provided feedback to the Executive director: chairman on his appraisal.
Stephen Hodges 10 5 Induction, information and ongoing development Jonathan Howell 9 5 On appointment to the board, each director receives a 1 Colin Keogh 6 3 comprehensive induction tailored to the experience and 2 needs of the individual.
Meetings are arranged with other Preben Prebensen 4 1 directors, key senior personnel and external advisers.
New Non-executive director: directors are also available to meet major shareholders on Bruce Carnegie-Brown 9 5 request.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin 9 3 3 The directors are kept informed of relevant regulatory and Ray Greenshields 9 3 corporate governance developments as they arise by senior Strone Macpherson 10 5 managers or through the companys external advisers.
During Douglas Paterson 10 4 the year ended 31 July 2009, the directors received briefings on the Financial Services Authority FSA code of practice on 1 To date of resignation 1 April 2009.
2 remuneration, the Turner and Walker Reviews.
From date of appointment 1 April 2009.
3 From date of appointment 13 November 2008.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the services and advice of the company secretary who is responsible for Board evaluation ensuring that the board procedures and applicable rules and The board conducts a formal and rigorous performance regulations are observed.
Directors are able to take evaluation each year to assess its own performance and that independent outside professional advice to assist with the of its committees and individual directors.
The process is led performance of their duties, at the companys expense.
by the chairman, who is supported by the company secretary.
Board Committees During the year, the board agreed that it would benefit from The board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration its first external board effectiveness review.
Boardroom Committee and a Nomination and Governance Committee.
Review was appointed to carry out the independent Each committee is responsible for the review and oversight of evaluation following a selection process.
Boardroom Review activities within its defined terms of reference and copies of provides no other services to the board and or the group.
each committees terms of reference are available on the companys website.
The comprehensive nature of the review fulfilled the Combined Code requirements for the evaluation of the board, Membership of the committees is made up of non-executive its committees and the individual directors and took the form directors only.
of one-to-one meetings between the external assessor and each director plus the completion of a confidential At the scheduled board meetings, the chairman of each questionnaire.
Results from the evaluation were collated by committee provides the board with a summary of key issues the assessor and considered by the chairman and chief considered at the committee meetings.
Feedback was subsequently presented to the full board in July 2009 and discussed by the board as a whole.
Overall, the conclusions from the evaluation were positive and identified a number of board strengths.
However, in order to ensure continuous improvement a number of action points were identified for implementation which included: The introduction of a strategic away day to the board calendar: Increased informal board time and communication between scheduled meetings: and The introduction of a structured approach to board development including the development of a rolling schedule of board training.
These initiatives will be developed during the course of this financial year and a board strategy away day is already being planned for autumn 2009.
indd 29 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Serv 30 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate Governance continued Board governance structure The role of the Committee includes: The board Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company and the form and content of published announcements: Audit Remuneration Nomination and Reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments, Committee Committee Governance judgements and disclosures in financial reports: Committee Responsible for Responsible for monitoring the determining the Responsible for Reviewing the adequacy of the groups system of risk integrity of financial framework for the reviewing the management, regulatory compliance and internal control: structure, size and reporting, reviewing remuneration of the effectiveness of executive directors composition of the Reviewing the groups whistleblowing procedures: board with particular internal audit, internal and other designated controls and risk senior executives.
regard to ensuring Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the group management systems Reviews and monitors the correct balance of skills, knowledge and internal audit function: and reviewing the remuneration and independence of the incentive plans for experience.
Making recommendations to the board as to the appointment or re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors, including assessing independence and Audit Committee objectivity, approving their terms of engagement and The membership of the Audit Committee during the year reviewing their findings and performance and overseeing ended 31 July 2009, together with a record of attendance at the relationship with them: and meetings which members were eligible to attend, is set out below: Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking Number of meetings and attendance 2008 2009 5 into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the Douglas Paterson chairman 5 provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown 4 The Committee reports to the board on all these issues, Ray Greenshields 4 identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that From date of appointment on 13 November 2008. action or improvement is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee met on five occasions during the year, four of these meetings were scheduled to coincide with the financial Particular areas of focus for the Committee during the year reporting and audit cycles of the group plus one ad hoc included a review of significant issues contained in the reports meeting.
The Committee has throughout the year monitored from both the internal and external audits, consideration of the integrity of the financial statements through a review of the audit fee and the balance between audit and non-audit the Interim and Annual Reports.
fees, consideration of the groups foreign exchange exposure and proposed hedging policy and consideration of an update Douglas Paterson, Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Ray Greenshields report on treasury share purchases and distributable reserves.
are all independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Douglas Paterson who as a senior partner in the The Committee also reviewed the structure of the group banking and capital markets division of  internal audit function which resulted in the appointment of until 2001 and as a non-executive director of Goldman Sachs  as co-source partner in order to International Bank has, in the view of the board, the appropriate have increased specialist resource and best practice level of recent and relevant financial experience as required by knowledge because of the diverse nature of the groups the Combined Code.
In accordance with the 2008 Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee also considered the risks The company secretary, or his nominee, acts as secretary to associated with the withdrawal of the groups external auditor the Committee.
The chief executive, finance director and from the market.
This involved the identification of a potential heads of group finance, risk, compliance and internal audit alternative audit firm and satisfying itself that there are no attend by invitation.
The chairman of the board and Jamie current barriers to that firm acting as external auditors.
Cayzer-Colvin also attend Committee meetings regularly.
The external auditors attend the meetings at least twice a As in previous years, the Committee conducted a review of year and the head of internal audit attends all meetings.
The the service provided by the groups external auditors.
The Committee meets privately with the external and internal results of this review were shared with the external auditors auditors at least once a year.
The Committee also meets to provide a basis for its recommendation as to their regularly without members of management present.
indd 30 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 31 Non-audit services policy Remuneration Committee The Committee has agreed a clear policy on the engagement The membership of the Remuneration Committee during the of the external auditors for non-audit services.
Where work is year ended 31 July 2009, together with a record of attendance closely related to the audit, for example accounting advice or at meetings which members were eligible to attend, is set out stock exchange reporting, work may be awarded to the as follows: external auditors.
If the work is of a nature such that a detailed understanding of the group is necessary, or where significant Number of meetings and attendance 2008 2009 5 benefit can be gained from work previously conducted, for Bruce Carnegie-Brown chairman 5 example tax advice or due diligence on transactions, the work Ray Greenshields 4 may be awarded to the external auditors, except that if it Douglas Paterson 5 exceeds 100,000 in value, it must first be approved by the Committee.
The Committee believe that this policy provides From date of appointment 13 November 2008. a more relevant measure of auditor independence than the monetary ratios and guidelines followed by some investors.
A Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Ray Greenshields and Douglas breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect Paterson are all independent non-executive directors.
The of audit and non-audit work is included in note 6 on page 66.
Remuneration Committee is chaired by Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
:miZgcVa VjY idg The Committees principal functions are making recommendations VjY i!
"iVm VcY di]Zg cdc""VjY i [ZZh to the board on the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of executive directors and other designated senior executives and deciding on behalf of the board the specific compensation package for each of the executive directors."
The chairman of the board and Jamie Cayzer-Colvin attend all Committee meetings.
Further details of the role and work of the Committee are set out in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 37 to 50.
"Nomination and Governance Committee The membership of the Nomination and Governance Committee during the year ended 31 July 2009, together with a record of attendance at meetings which members were eligible to attend, is set out below: N 6jY i [ZZh &# b aa dc N IVm [ZZh %# b aa dc N Di]Zg cdc""VjY i [ZZh %#' b aa dc Number of meetings and attendance 2008 2009 3 Strone Macpherson chairman 3 Auditors independence Bruce Carnegie-Brown 3 The auditors of the group are Deloitte LLP."
Several firms are Ray Greenshields 3 considered for other work, including the auditors in some instances.
In such cases due consideration is given to the Douglas Paterson 3 impact of the assignment on the independence of the From date of appointment 13 November 2008. auditors and to their qualifications to carry out the role, including competitive tenders for larger assignments.
There were a number of additional informal meetings between members of the Committee during the year.
Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by the auditors, and after review with the partner in the firm and Other directors may attend the Committee meetings by invitation.
the executive directors, the Audit Committee is satisfied as to the independence of the statutory auditors.
The role of the Committee includes: The Committee reviewed the appointment of the external Considering the appointment or retirement of directors: auditors of the group in April 2008.
All big four audit firms were considered for the position of sole auditors of the group Reviewing proposed nominations and governance although only two were subsequently asked to tender.
procedures and to make recommendations thereon to the Following this process, Deloitte LLP were appointed on a fixed board.
Before an appointment is made the skills, fee for a period of two years, subject only to significant knowledge and experience required for a particular changes in the scale and composition of the group.
appointment are evaluated and external advisers may be used to facilitate the search for suitable candidates: Regular reviews of the structure, size and composition of the board: Considering the leadership needs of the group and succession planning: and Assessing the contribution of non-executive directors.
indd 31 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Serv 32 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate Governance continued During the year the Committee met to consider the key issues and developments are escalated on a timely basis.
recruitment and appointment of a new chief executive and The groups risk management framework requires that all of the external board assessor selection process.
the groups divisions and operating businesses establish a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks Conflicts of Interest that they face.
Shareholders approved amendments to the companys Articles of Association at the AGM held on 13 November 2008, The composition and duties of the Audit Committee are which included provisions giving the directors authority to described on page 30.
The GRCC is a committee established approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest by the chief executive to assist him in the discharge of his as permitted under the Companies Act 2006. responsibility for the group wide management of risk comprising executives of the group board supported by the A procedure has been established whereby actual and potential head of group risk, the head of group compliance and the conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed, and appropriate head of group internal audit.
It meets monthly and is authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of any new responsible for: director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted Recommending for board approval the groups risk appetite: directors and in making such a decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to The groups risk management strategy, approach and policy: promote the success of the company.
The board believes this procedure operated effectively throughout the year.
The approval of group wide policies in respect of risk management and regulatory compliance: and Internal Control and Risk Management The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of Receiving regular reports on significant risk management, risk management, regulatory compliance and internal control regulatory compliance and internal control issues and for and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are monitoring their analysis and resolution.
designed to ensure that the key risks taken by the company and its subsidiaries in the conduct of their business are The system of internal control is supported by a well identified and evaluated so that appropriate controls are put established organisational structure within the group, with in place to manage those risks.
Such systems are designed to clear levels of responsibility and delegation of authority and a manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve strong control culture embedded in the day to day business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not management of each operating company.
Each operating absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
company in the group regularly undertakes a review of, and reports to its board on, these controls and procedures, having Risk management is the process of identifying the principal due regard to its key risks.
Where necessary, steps are taken business risks, including regulatory compliance risks, to the to improve internal control and risk management further, group achieving its strategic objectives, establishing following these reviews.
The principal risks and uncertainties appropriate controls to manage those risks and ensuring that shown on pages 22 to 24 of the Business Review details these appropriate monitoring and reporting systems are in place.
key risks and explains how they are controlled.
The groups risk management process balances cost against risk within the constraints of the groups risk appetite and is Group internal audit regularly reviews the effectiveness of consistent with the prudent management required of a large controls and procedures established by the company and its financial organisation.
operating businesses to manage key risks.
The head of group internal audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee The risk management framework is based on the concept of through the chairman of that committee and to the finance three lines of defence: director who provides day to day support and guidance to the function including the professional development of the head Risk management: Primary responsibility for strategy, of audit.
The head of group internal audit has unfettered performance and risk management lies with the board, the access to the board.
chief executive and the heads of each division and operating business.
An annual plan is presented to the Audit Committee each year, which focuses in particular on higher risk areas of the Risk oversight: Risk management oversight is provided by groups business.
The Committee regularly reviews the scope the Group Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC and and results of internal audit work across the group and the the head of group risk working with counterparts in the implementation of recommendations.
It also assesses the divisions and operating businesses and with group scope of the work to cover all key activities of the group and compliance.
concentrates on higher risk areas.
Independent assurance: Independent assurance on the The company has complied with the Turnbull Committees effectiveness of the risk management systems is provided guidance for directors.
Identifying, evaluating and managing by group internal audit reporting to the Audit Committee.
the groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is regularly reviewed by the board, and which has been in place There are clear reporting lines and defined areas of for the year ended 31 July 2009 and up to the date of the responsibility at board, divisional and business level.
This approval of these financial statements.
structure is designed to ensure, amongst other things, that U07387 pp25-51.
indd 32 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 33 Investor Relations The group has a strong, proven and conservative business The group has an extensive programme of communication model and a range of diversified financial services businesses, with shareholders and financial analysts through financial and its performance has been resilient in the difficult trading reports, news releases, investor presentations, meetings and conditions currently being experienced and in previous telephone discussions throughout the year.
The directors further believe the group has a relations programme ensures investors have access to sound funding and liquidity position and adequate capital relevant information to understand the performance and resources.
prospects of the group, and have appropriate access to the groups management.
The chief executive and finance After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable director meet with shareholders on a regular basis, and the expectation that the company and the group have adequate chairman and senior independent director are also available resources to continue in operational existence for the to meet with major shareholders from time to time.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the investor relations team regularly provides the board with going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
feedback from investor meetings, relevant analyst research and updates on share price performance.
Statement of Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Shareholders also have the opportunity to ask questions to and the financial statements.
The directors are required to the board at the AGM, either in person or by submitting prepare accounts for the group in accordance with written questions in advance.
The chairman of each of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as board committees are available to attend the AGM, and all adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS directors are expected to attend the meeting.
Regulation, and have chosen to prepare company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The latest financial reports, news releases, presentation Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
materials and web casts of financial presentations are available on the investor relations section of the Close In the case of IFRS accounts, IAS 1 requires that financial Brothers Group web site www.
statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This Substantial Shareholdings requires the faithful representation of the effects of The company has been notified as at 9 September 2009 under transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, following significant interests in the voting rights of the income and expenses set out in the International Accounting company.
Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all Ordinary Voting circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by shares rights compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also millions % required to: Caledonia Investments 19.6 13.
6 Prudential 13.0 9.0 properly select and apply accounting policies: Aberdeen Asset Management 9.6 6.
6 present information, including accounting policies, in a Lloyds Banking Group 8.0 5.
6 manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Artemis 6.6 4.
4 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Aviva 5.8 4.0 specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights events and conditions on the groups financial position and from those of other shareholders.
financial performance: and Going Concern prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, The groups business activities, together with the factors likely having assessed the ability of the group to continue as a to affect its future development and performance and its going concern, management either intends to liquidate the summarised financial position are set out in the Chairmans group or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative and Chief Executives Statement and Business Review on but to do so.
The principal risks and uncertainties the group currently faces are described on pages 22 to 24 of In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to the Business Review along with the ways the group seeks to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give manage those risks.
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether all applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any U07387 pp25-51.
indd 33 30 9 09 18:33:10 30 9 09 18:33:10 34 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate Governance continued material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and the company and to enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation and that the company financial statements and the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS and UK GAAP, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole.
The management reports, which are incorporated by reference into the Report of the Directors, include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By order of the board R. D. Sellers Company Secretary 29 September 2009 U07387 pp25-51.
