ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 40 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED CREDITORS POLICY COMPLIANCE WITH 2008 COMBINED CODE Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms Bodycote complies with the provisions of The Combined Code on and conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance in June 2008 the Code, save that the Board has taken the view with the terms agreed, provided that these suppliers have also that generally it is the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the complied with applicable terms and conditions.
Creditor days Finance Director to manage relationships with institutional investors.
at the year end for the Company were 46 days 2008: 45 days.
The Chairman also meets institutional investors to discuss overall strategy, governance and any concerns that shareholders may have.
SHAREHOLDERS Only where these more usual channels of communication have failed An analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue would the Board expect the Senior Independent or other Non-executive at 18 February 2010 and details of the interests of major shareholders Directors to become involved, notwithstanding that the Code specifies in voting shares notified to the Company pursuant to chapter 5 attendance of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director at of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are given on page 111. meetings with major shareholders.
Regular feedback by the Companys AUDITORS advisers on investor meetings and results presentations is circulated In accordance with the provisions of section 489 of the Companies to all Directors.
Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Apart from this distinct area, Bodycote was in compliance with the Auditors is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General provisions of the Code throughout 2009.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that:- OPERATION OF THE CODE Taken together with the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Committee Report and the Board Report on Remuneration presented information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and: on pages 43 to 53, this statement explains how Bodycote has applied each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have the principles of good corporate governance set out in the Code.
taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit LEADERSHIP information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are The Board is responsible to shareholders for good corporate governance, aware of that information.
setting the Companys strategic objectives, values and standards and This statement is given and should be interpreted in accordance ensuring the necessary resources are in place to achieve the objectives.
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board met on ten occasions during 2009 including a specific ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING meeting to review and update the Companys long-term strategy.
The 2010 Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2010 in The Board of Directors comprises six members, of whom four are accordance with the notice being sent to Shareholders with this report.
Non-executive Directors and two are Executive Directors led by the By order of the Board: Companys part-time Non-executive Chairman, Mr A. M. Thomson, who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive is Mr S. C. Harris and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Mr J. Vogelsang, who also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Springwood Court The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr J.
Brief biographical Springwood Close details of all Directors are given on page 55.
Tytherington Business Park Macclesfield J. R. Grime Cheshire Secretary SK10 2XF 25 February 2010 40 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 41 The Board makes visits to UK and overseas facilities.
Certain defined INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS powers and issues are reserved for the Board to decide, inter alia: The Board considers that Messrs J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang and Dr K. Rajagopal are all independent for the purposes of the Code.
Strategy COMMITMENT Approval of financial statements and circulars Attendance of Directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Board Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals and its Committees is shown in the table below.
Annual budgets Full Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Directors appointments, service agreements, remuneration and succession planning Eligable to attend & attended Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and A. M. Thomson 10 7 3 environment, donations S. C. Harris 10 3 Committees terms of reference J. Vogelsang 10 4 7 3 Board and committee chairmen and membership J.
A. Biles 10 473 K. Rajagopal 10 4 7 3 Investments D. F. Landless 10 Equity and bank financing J. D. Hubbard 3 Internal control and risk management D. R. Sleight 3 Corporate governance All Directors attended the maximum number of Board or Committee Key external and internal appointments and meetings that they were scheduled to attend.
In addition by invitation Employee share incentives and the UK Pension Scheme.
Messrs Thomson, Harris and Landless attended the whole or part of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings.
In advance of Board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date information about the trading performance of each operating location, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior Messrs S. C. Harris and D. F. Landless were appraised internally year, budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest in February and January 2010 respectively.
In October 2009 the available information on safety, health and environmental and risk Board carried out its own evaluation of the Board as a whole, and management issues and details of the safety and health performance the evaluation of Board Committees.
The Remuneration and Audit of the Group, and each Division, in terms of severity and frequency Committees reviewed their own performance in December 2009 and rates for accidents at work.
the Nomination Committee reviewed its performance in October 2009.
Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice, Led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, the Directors the cost of which is reimbursed by the Company.
All Directors have have carried out an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
access to the Company Secretary and they may also address specific INTERNAL CONTROL issues to the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
In accordance The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control with the Articles of Association, all newly appointed Directors and any and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to who have not stood for re-election at one of the two previous Annual manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business General Meetings, if eligible, must submit themselves for re-election.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has fixed terms not exceeding three years from the date of first election applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process by shareholders, after which the appointment may be extended by for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, mutual agreement.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set including risks arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
The Board also operates three committees.
These are The Board continuously and regularly reviews the process, which has the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the been in place from the start of 2000 to the date of approval of this Audit Committee.
report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999 and which is in accordance with revised guidance on internal control published October 2005. BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 41 ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, INVESTOR RELATIONS operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet institutional investors, both individually and collectively, It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and this has enabled institutional investors to increase their and from internal audit to consider whether any significant understanding of the Groups strategy.
The business of the Annual weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more General Meeting comprises a review of the Groups operations for extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in the benefit of shareholders attending.
In addition, since 1998, discharging these review responsibilities.
internet users have been able to view up-to-date news on the Group The Group prepares a comprehensive annual budget which is closely and its share price via the Bodycote website at www.
The Groups authority matrix clearly Users of the website can access news of all recent announcements sets out authority limits for those with delegated responsibility and and copies of results presentations and can enrol to hear live specifies what can only be decided with central approval.
On a regular basis, Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public relations consultants provide The Internal Audit department monitors the Groups internal financial the Directors with opinion surveys from analysts and investing control system and its reviews are conducted on the basis of plans institutions following visits and meetings with the Chief Executive approved by the Audit Committee, to which Internal Audit reports are and Finance Director.
As stated on page 40 the Chairman and Senior submitted on a regular basis.
Independent Non-executive Director are available to discuss any Each Division provides assurance on specified financial and non-financial issues not resolved by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
controls and these are reported twice-yearly to the Audit Committee.
On specific issues, such as the introduction of long-term incentive During 2009, in compliance with provision C2.1, the Board also and share matching schemes in 2006 and changes thereto in 2009, performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
and in 2008 the return of cash, the Company will seek the views of The assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control leading investors.
arising during the period covered by the report including the work By order of the Board: of Internal Audit.
In addition, the President of each of the Divisions reported on the existing internal control procedure and any failings or weaknesses.
They identified and made an assessment of the risks affecting the businesses they control, in each case with the Springwood Court assistance of input from those reporting directly to them.
Such risks Springwood Close were measured against their own stated objectives, and actions Tytherington Business Park for any improvements were scheduled against a timetable for later J. R. Grime Macclesfield verification by Internal Audit.
The Board also conducted a review Secretary Cheshire of risks which principally affected the head office functions and 25 February 2010 SK10 2XF reviewed these with the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer and the Head of Tax.
The risk areas reviewed included pensions, information services, treasury, investor relations, capital expenditure, acquisitions, intellectual property, insurance, human resources, financial control, external reporting and succession planning.
No significant previously unidentified risks were uncovered as part of this process, and the necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified as part of the reviews.
42 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
