ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 43 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the Board The Nomination Committee met three times in 2009.
Mr A. M. Thomson whose purpose is to advise the Board on the appointment and, chairs the Nomination Committee which also comprises Messrs if necessary, dismissal of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang, S. C. Harris and Dr K. Rajagopal.
The former The full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are chief executive, Mr J. D. Hubbard, also served on the Committee until provided on the Companys website.
The meetings in 2009 discussed succession planning at all senior levels COMPOSITION OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent Non-executive within the Company and reviewed and authorised potential conflicts of interest.
In October 2009 the Nomination Committee, with both Directors together with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must Executive Directors in attendance, carried out a formal evaluation of the Board and Nomination Committees performance, and reviewed be an independent Non-executive Director.
the Boards size and composition, the frequency of and process for The Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee, although the meetings, risk management and financial control and the objectives Chairman may not chair the Committee when it is dealing with the for the Board in 2010. matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the Company.
On behalf of the Committee: Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the Committee meetings.
However, other individuals and external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that A. M. Thomson is required from any officer or employee of the Company or its Chairman of the Nomination Committee subsidiaries.
In connection with its duties, the Committee is authorised 25 February 2010 by the Board to take such independent advice including legal or other professional advice, at the Companys expense as it considers necessary, including requests for information from, or commissioning investigations by external advisers.
BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 43
