ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 44 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board whose main role MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE is to encourage and safeguard the highest standards of integrity, financial The Audit Committee met four times during 2009, and in February 2010 reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Committees to consider this financial report and all Committee members attended responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which include the maximum number of meetings they were scheduled to attend.
all matters indicated by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the The Committee also meets separately with the Senior Internal Auditor Code, which are available for inspection on the Companys website and with the external auditors, without management being present, and include: after the end of most formal meetings.
reviewing the form and content of interim and full year accounts In addition, the Committee Chairman has preparatory meetings and results announcements of the Company, interim management with the external auditors and, where necessary, with Group senior statements and any other formal announcements relating to the management, prior to committee meetings.
Companys financial performance, including monitoring their integrity and reviewing significant reporting issues and judgements contained At their meetings, the Audit Committee considers an agenda of therein, and recommending them to the Board for approval: items including the minutes of the last meeting and a list of action points from previous meetings, to ensure that these are progressed.
reviewing the Groups systems of risk management and internal In addition, a number of specific items were reviewed: financial control: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys At their February and July meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed internal audit function and considering regular reports from respectively the preliminary and interim announcements of results Internal Audit on internal financial controls and risk management: and the draft reports and accounts for the financial year and the half year.
On these occasions the Committee reviewed reports from considering the appointment, re-appointment or changing of external the external auditors, identifying any accounting or judgemental auditors and overseeing the process for their selection and making items requiring its attention including approval of the processes, recommendations to the Board on their appointment which will assumptions and outcomes to assess fair values and impairments be put to the shareholders for their approval at a General Meeting and to approve their remuneration and terms of engagement: and commenting on risk management and control matters.
agreeing the nature and scope of the external auditors work and A quarterly report from the Senior Internal Auditor was presented at each meeting and the findings discussed.
During the year the considering their reports on the Companys accounts, reports to shareholders and their evaluation of the systems of internal plan for the ensuing years work was considered.
financial control and risk management: and The external auditors also presented their audit plan at the monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, December and April meetings covering scope of work to be done objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional and and during the year there was a detailed review of their management regulatory requirements.
letter covering the auditors findings in respect of 2008.
The Audit Committee has also been presented with an update COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises Messrs J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang on material litigation in which the Group is involved.
and Dr K. Rajagopal who are all independent Non-executive Directors.
At each meeting an update is presented of any new accounting Their biographical details are set out on page 55 and their remuneration developments and requirements and any changes in corporate is shown on page 50.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee since governance arrangements that may affect the Group.
A. Biles, who was appointed a Director on On a regular basis, the Committee reviewed papers on liquidity, that date, following a recommendation from the Nomination Committee.
banking arrangements and the going concern assumptions for The Audit Committee Chairman is considered to have recent and preparation of the financial statements.
This response to the relevant financial experience.
Mr Biles is a chartered accountant, who current global financial and economic circumstances, which affects served as a plc finance director FKI plc from 1998 to 2004 and Chubb all businesses, took account of the impact on the Bodycote Security plc from 1991 to 1997 and is currently also the Chairman of business of the current financial and economic environment.
the Audit Committees of Charter International plc 2005 and Hermes The Committees activities supported the Directors in their Fund Managers Limited 2005.
The Company Secretary is secretary to assessment of the going concern position of the Group, the Audit Committee.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, which is set out on page 30.
Senior Internal Auditor, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer, Head of Tax, other senior finance personnel and external auditors attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate by invitation.
44 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 45 During 2009 the Audit Committee also: INTERNAL AUDIT Internal Audit independently reviews the risk and control processes assessed the independence of the external auditors: operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit, the performance accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the and capabilities of the External Auditors and having taken into Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
This plan account their tenure of office from 2002 and when the position takes account of the risk management framework surrounding major was last open for tender, recommended to the Board to reappoint business risks in each operation and provides a high degree of the Auditors and agreed their fees: financial and geographical coverage.
Internal Audit reports include approved the Groups accounting policies: recommendations to improve internal controls together with agreed managerial action plans to resolve issues raised.
Internal audit follows approved the management representations to the Auditors: up the implementation of recommendations and reports progress to reviewed arrangements for reporting and investigating fraud senior management and the Audit Committee.
The effectiveness of and employee concerns: the Internal Audit function is reviewed and discussed on an annual reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk basis with the Group Financial Controller and Senior Internal Auditor.
management process: As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed the terms of reference for the Audit Committee: and concluded that it has acted in accordance with its items of reference assessed the Committees own effectiveness.
and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
INDEPENDENCE OF EXTERNAL AUDITORS On behalf of the Audit Committee: The Audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
In this respect, the Audit Committee reviewed: the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with the professional rules, has not held office J.
A. Biles for more than five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: Audit Committee Chairman the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit 25 February 2010 relationship: and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors as referred to below.
The policy in respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: Audit related services.
The external auditors are invited to provide services where their position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the work.
This includes reporting and certification connected with borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, regulatory requirements and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Where the external auditors are best suited to carry out the work they are asked to do so.
This particularly applies to work relating to tax compliance.
Major exercises and any work where conflicts would arise are put out to tender.
In general and where conflicts arise, the work is not awarded to the external auditors and is put out to tender.
There are no contractual restrictions on who the Audit Committee can choose as external auditors.
BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 45
