Statement of Corporate Governance Management Engagement Committee Corporate Governance The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management Compliance Engagement Committee and keeps the resources of the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Manager under review.
In addition, it conducts an annual governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys review of the terms and conditions of the Investment shareholders for good governance and, as required by the Management Agreement and of all aspects of the Managers Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, this statement performance under this agreement.
"describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the In the opinion of the Board, Aberdeen Asset Management ""Code""."
The Board confirms that the Company has complied Group has the secretarial, marketing and administrative skills throughout the accounting period with the relevant required for the effective operation and administration of the provisions contained within the Code.
As described in the Chairman's Statement, the member of the Association of Investment Companies, which Board has spent time with the Manager conducting a review, has published its own Code of Corporate Governance the with the aim of understanding better its investment AIC Code to recognise the special circumstances of philosophy and its approach to risk.
While the Board has investment trusts.
The Board is of the opinion that the expressed its concern to the Manager regarding the recent Company has complied with the recommendations of the performance of the Company's assets, we remain satisfied AIC Code.
that the Manager's investment screening processes are thorough and robust, that it employs a substantial team of Directors skilled and experienced fund managers and we recognise the The Board, which met seven times during the year, has Manager's conviction that its investment approach will overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
All Directors deliver real long-term growth of both income and capital.
were present at all meetings, with the exception of Rory The Board therefore believes that the continuing Macnamara who missed one Board meeting.
appointment of the Manager, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of shareholders.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated direct to the External Agencies senior staff of the Manager.
Such matters include strategy, The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, Company structure, risk, reviewing the Manager, borrowings, including the Manager and other service providers, certain treasury, dividend, and corporate governance policy.
Full and services: the management of the investment portfolio, the timely information is provided to the Board to enable the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to assets, the registration services and the day-to-day discharge their responsibilities.
The Board also reviews the accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of financial statements, performance and revenue budgets.
these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services The Board delegates, through an Investment Management offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Agreement and through specific instructions, the day-to-day The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager management of the Company to Aberdeen Asset Managers on a regular basis.
In addition, ad hoc reports and Limited the Manager.
The Company has no employees.
information are supplied to the Board as requested.
The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, including Nomination Committee the Chairman.
As is common for an investment trust, there The Nomination Committee consists of the whole Board and are no executive Directors.
All the Directors are considered to is chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Jean be independent.
In the case of Jean Matterson, who has been Matterson.
Terms of reference are in place, which include a Director since 1997, the Nomination Committee excluding reviewing the Board, appointments, appraisal, succession Ms Matterson takes the view that her independence has not planning and training.
The terms of reference are available on been compromised by her length of service.
This is consistent request from the Company and are on the Companys with the AIC Code.
Information on the Directors appears on pages 18 to 19 of The Nomination Committee has undertaken the annual this report.
Each Director has the requisite business and appraisal of the Chairman of the Board as well as financial experience to enable the Board to provide effective performance evaluation and review of the Board as a whole.
strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
A list of skills and expertise required by the Board has been The Senior Independent Director is Jean Matterson.
agreed by the Board and will be kept under review.
The 24 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Nomination Committee has also reviewed the Chairmans Accountability and Audit and Directors other commitments, and the Committee is The Board confirms that as at 31 January 2009 there is a satisfied that the Chairman and other Directors are capable process for identifying, evaluating and managing the of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
Companys significant business and operational risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 January 2009 and up Appointments of new Directors are considered by the to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, Nomination Committee taking into account the need to that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with maintain a balanced Board.
The Nomination Committee will the internal control guidance for directors on the Combined consider the use of an external search consultant depending Code.
on circumstances at the appropriate time.
New Directors appointed to the Board will be given a formal induction The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that there is meeting with the Manager and will be provided with all a system of internal controls in place and a process for relevant information regarding their duties as Directors.
Any system of internal control is Directors are encouraged to receive training relevant to their designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure roles as Directors.
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General The Manager is responsible for the design, implementation Meeting.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for and maintenance of controls and procedures to safeguard re-election at least once every three years.
Directors with the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs more than nine years service will be required to submit properly.
The system extends to operational and compliance themselves for annual re-election.
The Board supports the recontrols and risk management.
Clear lines of accountability election of Jean Matterson and Peter Wolton who are due to have been established between the Board and the Manager.
Jean Matterson has particular The Board receives regular reports covering key performance knowledge of investment on behalf of private clients and and risk indicators and considers control and compliance Peter Wolton has had a long and distinguished career in issues brought to its attention.
In carrying out its review, the international asset management.
Board has had regard to the activities of the Manager, the Managers internal audit and compliance function and the There is a procedure for Directors to take independent auditors.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit Communication with Shareholders function but, because of the compliance and internal control The Directors place a great deal of importance on systems in place within the Manager, has decided to place communication with shareholders.
The annual report and reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an procedures.
interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and investors may obtain up to date information on the The auditors are responsible for reviewing the accounting Company through the Companys website and the Managers systems and controls surrounding the accounting systems to information service, and the Company responds to letters the extent necessary for them to form their opinion on the from shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager truth and fairness of the financial statements.
has regular meetings with shareholders and reports to the Board.
The Board is available to meet with shareholders as The key components designed to provide effective internal appropriate.
control are outlined below: the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts The notice of Annual General Meeting included within the which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities annual report and accounts is sent out at least 20 working and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining days in advance of the meeting.
All shareholders have the the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting opportunity to put questions to the Board and a presentation by exception: from the Manager covers the investment performance and the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined strategy during the financial year and the outlook for the investment criteria, specified levels of authority and year ahead.
The Board hopes that as many shareholders as exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including possible will be able to attend the meeting.
performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings with the Manager as appropriate: Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 25 Statement of Corporate Governance continued as a matter of course the Managers compliance Remuneration Committee department continually reviews the Managers operations: There is no requirement for the above as the Company has written agreements are in place which specifically define no executive employees.
Remuneration details are provided the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 28. party service providers: and Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder at its March 2009 meeting, the Board carried out an annual Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of assessment of internal controls for the year ended 31 investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the January 2009 by considering documentation from the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a Manager, including the internal audit and compliance regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other functions and taking account of events since 31 January publications produced by the investee company, and for 2009. attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to Audit Committee exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
An Audit Committee is established consisting of the whole The Managers policy is to vote on all shares held by the Board with Rory Macnamara acting as Audit Committee Company.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and reviews audit matters within clearly defined written terms of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment reference copies of which are available upon request from Policy the Company and are on the Companys website.
In The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the summary, the Audit Committees main audit review Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks functions are: associated with investment in companies which fail to to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The management systems on which the Company is reliant: Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors to consider annually whether there is a need for the which may affect the performance or value of the Company to have its own internal audit function: Companys investments.
The Directors, through the to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial Manager, encourage companies in which investments are statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging, made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by Manager: entering into a dialogue with company management to to meet, if required, with the auditors to review their encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies proposed audit programme of work and the findings of the in this area.
The Companys ultimate objective is to deliver auditors.
The Committee shall also use this as an superior long-term returns for our shareholders which we opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the audit process: believe will be produced on a sustainable basis by to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the investments in companies which adhere to best practice in auditors to supply non audit services services provided for the area of Corporate Governance.
Accordingly, the Manager the non audit fee of 4,000 for the year were for the will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in interim review : the above area.
to review an annual statement from the Manager detailing the arrangements in place within Aberdeen whereby Aberdeen staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing : to make recommendations in relation to the appointment of the auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditors: and to monitor and review annually the auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on the appointment of the auditors for the forthcoming year.
26 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
