S St ta at tem emen ent t o of f Co Cor rp po or ra at te e G Go ov ver ern na an nc ce e Compliance Audit Board Committee The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Meetings held meetings meetings governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance, and attendance attended attended and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the 2008 Combined Code appended Tony Cassidy 5 5 1 1 to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules throughout David Gairns 4 5 3 3 the financial year.
The Board confirms that the Company has Frank Frame 5 5 n a complied throughout the accounting period to 31 August Tony Lowrie 4 5 1 2 2009 with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
Allan McKenzie 5 5 3 3 The Company is also a member of the Association of Peter Tyrie 5 5 n a Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Code of corporate governance to recognise the special Iain Watt 5 5 n a circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the Resigned from Audit Committee in Dec-08 opinion that the Company has complied with the Member of Audit Committee recommendations of the AIC Code.
Appointed to Audit Committee in Dec-08 The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for The Board decision, and the requirement for Board approval on these The Board consists of seven non-executive Directors.
Profiles matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the of the Board members appear on pages 20 to 22 of the Manager.
Such matters include overall strategy, review of annual report.
Each Director has the requisite range of investment policy, performance, borrowings, treasury, business and financial experience to enable the Board to marketing, Board composition, corporate governance policy provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship and communications with shareholders.
Full and timely of the Company.
Mr Frame is the Senior Independent information is provided to the Board to enable the Directors Director, and is available to shareholders in the event that to function effectively and to discharge their responsibilities.
there are concerns that cannot be resolved through The Board also reviews the financial statements and revenue discussion with the Chairman.
The Company has no executive directors or employees.
All Performance Evaluation Directors are considered to be independent of the Manager An appraisal of each Director, including the Chairman, and of and to be free of any material relationship with the Manager the operation of the Board and its Committees, was which could interfere with the exercise of their independent undertaken during the year.
The Board takes the view that length of service assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The does not compromise independence.
This is consistent with Board also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other the AIC Code.
Mr Watt, being a former director of Edinburgh commitments.
The Board is satisfied that each Directors Fund Managers Group plc, did have a material relationship performance continues to be effective, and that each with the Manager but given that relationship was over five remains fully committed to the Company.
years ago, he is deemed to be independent.
When making a recommendation for re-electing a Director, the Board will There is no separate Nomination Committee.
Director take into account the on-going requirements of the appraisals, succession planning, new appointments and Combined Code.
training are considered by the whole Board.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys New Directors are identified against the requirements of the affairs.
It delegates, through an investment management Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
agreement and specific instructions, the day-to-day For new appointments a description of the required role is management of the Company to the Manager, Aberdeen prepared and nominations of Directors are initially sought in Asset Managers Limited.
the financial and investment sectors.
If required, external search consultants may be used to ensure that a wide range The Board normally meets at least five times each year, and of candidates can be considered.
New Directors will be given more frequently where business needs require.
In addition, appropriate induction from the Manager.
All Directors are there is regular contact between the Directors and the entitled to receive appropriate and relevant training.
During the year the Board met five times and the Audit Committee met three times The Companys Articles of Association provide that a the attendance record of each Director is shown in the Table Director appointed during the year is required to retire and below.
28 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General of internal control, including financial, operational and Meeting.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control re-election at least once every three years.
The Boards systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit current policy is that Directors with more than nine years function which undertakes periodic examination of business service, or who are over 70 years, are required to submit processes, including compliance with the terms of the themselves for annual re-election.
In line with the Boards management agreement, and ensures that recommendations policy, Messrs Frame, Gairns, Tyrie, and Watt retire at this to improve controls are implemented.
years Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for reelection.
The Board has reviewed the skills and experience of Risks are identified and documented through a risk each Director, and supports their re-election.
The Board also management framework by each function within the supports the re-election of Allan McKenzie who is due to Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the retire by rotation at this years Annual General Meeting.
FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit As the company law provisions regarding the age limit of 70 risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
for directors of public companies are no longer in force, the Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and Boards policy for annual re-election of directors aged 70 and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to over will be removed for future years.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
There is a procedure for a Director to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Note 19 to the accounts provides further information on risks.
The key components designed to provide effective Remuneration Committee internal control are outlined below: The Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts During the year the Board has established a Remuneration which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities Committee which comprises David Gairns Chairman, Allan and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining McKenzie and Tony Lowrie.
The Committee is responsible the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting for determining the level of Directors fees.
Directors remuneration are contained within the Directors The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined Remuneration Report.
investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including Internal Control performance statistics and investment valuations, are The Board is responsible for the Companys system of regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The with the Manager as appropriate.
Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for As a matter of course, the Managers compliance identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks department continually reviews the Managers operations.
This process has been in place for the Written agreements are in place which specifically define year under review and up to the date of approval of this the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third annual report and accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the party service providers.
Board and accords with the FRCs guidance, Internal Control: The Board has considered the need for an internal audit Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The function but, because of the compliance and internal Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks procedures.
affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks The Audit Committee carried out six monthly reviews of are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Company are internal controls, including the internal audit and as follows: compliance functions.
At its October 2009 meeting, the Audit Committee performed its annual assessment of financial: internal controls for the year ended 31 August 2009 and operational: taking account of events since 31 August 2009.
The results compliance: and of the assessment were reported to the Board.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the The Directors have delegated the investment management of Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is the Companys assets to the Manager within overall exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only Going Concern provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Shareholders will be given the opportunity to vote on the material misstatement or loss.
continuation of the Company at the next Annual General Meeting in December 2009.
As referred to, and for the reasons set on in the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Accountability and Audit recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the continuation vote.
auditors in connection with the financial statements appear on pages 32 and 34.
Having regard to the matters referred to above, inclusive of the discussion regarding the continuation vote included in The members of the Audit Committee are Mr Gairns the Chairman's Statement on page 6, and after due Chairman, Mr Lowrie and Mr McKenzie.
Mr Gairns, a consideration, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to chartered accountant, has the necessary recent and relevant continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation financial experience.
The Audit Committee considers reports of the accounts, and they consider that the Company has from the external auditors and the Managers internal audit adequate resources to continue in operational existence for and compliance functions.
The terms of reference of the the foreseeable future.
Audit Committee, which are available on request and on the Companys website, are reviewed and re-assessed on an Review of Manager annual basis.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: The Board keeps the resources of the Manager under constant review.
In addition, it conducts an annual review of to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement and management systems on which the Company is reliant.
of all aspects of the Managers performance under this to consider annually whether there is a need for the Agreement.
The notice period for the Company under the Company to have its own internal audit function.
Agreement if it wishes to terminate the Agreement is three to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial months or on shorter notice in certain circumstances.
statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice where necessary, the actions and judgements of the period if actual notice is less than the notice period.
Following the most recent review, the Board concluded that to meet with the external auditors to review their proposed the Manager, whose team is well-qualified and experienced, audit programme of work and the findings of the auditors.
had satisfactorily met the terms of its Agreement with the The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess Company, and is satisfied that the continuing appointment the effectiveness of the audit process.
of the Manager is in the interests of the Company and its to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the shareholders.
external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The nonaudit fees for the year to 31 August 2009 were 4,000, Relations with Shareholders relating to the review of the interim accounts and The Directors place great importance on communication regulatory reporting.
The Board will review any future nonwith shareholders.
Besides shareholders, the report and audit fees in the light of the requirement to maintain the accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an auditors independence.
interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and to review the arrangements in place within the Manager potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about the Company through the Managers freephone information possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or service, and the Company responds to letters from other matters.
shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds appointment of the external auditors and to approve the back shareholder views to the Board.
The Board also met remuneration and terms of engagement of the external with representatives of the major shareholders during the auditors.
The Companys annual and interim reports to monitor and review annually the external auditors and other publications can be downloaded from the independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and Companys website, www.
At its October 2009 meeting, the Committee was satisfied that the auditors remained independent and It is the intention of the Board that, in the ordinary course, objective.
the notice of the Annual General Meeting included within to review the performance of the Manager and its the annual report and accounts is normally sent out at least compliance with the management agreement.
20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All Directors 30 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc intend to be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Proxy voting figures for each resolution are announced to the meeting after voting on a show of hands.
Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder In relation to the use of the Companys voting rights in respect of investee companies, the Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The underlying aim of the exercising of such voting rights is to protect the return from an investment.
The Managers policy is to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, and, as far as is practicable, to vote at all meetings called by investee companies.
Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in both areas.
The Managers ultimate objective, however, is to deliver superior investment return for their clients.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in these areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
