Corporate Governance The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
Copies of the Combined Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
uk and copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the website of the Association of Investment Companies www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code during the year to 30 September 2009.
The Board of Directors The Board was comprised of six Directors throughout the year to 30 September 2009 all of whom were non-executive.
The Board appointed Mr R Perkin as a non-executive Director on 24 November 2009.
The Board has nominated Mr JP Williams as the Senior Independent Director.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management agreements with Electra Partners, together with the monitoring of the performance thereunder.
The management agreements set out the matters over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
The Board meetings consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The number of scheduled meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Attendance at Scheduled Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Remuneration and Audit Nomination Valuations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 9 2 1 4 Sir Brian Williamson 9 1 RA Armstrong 92 1 C Bowe 7 2 4 MEDA Walton 9 2 4 L Webber 9 2 1 4 JP Williams 92 1 Sir Brian Williamson was not a member of the Audit or Valuations Committees.
Mr RA Armstrong and Mr JP Williams were not members of the Valuations Committees.
Mr MEDA Walton was asked not to attend the meeting of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive board papers several days in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has the balance of skills and experience which enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience can be found on page 70.
31 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Reports Directors Remuneration Report Corporate Governance Reports Independence of the Board Sir Brian Williamson, Mr RA Armstrong, Mr MEDA Walton and Mr JP Williams have served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by length of service.
The Directors including the Chairman who have been in office for more than nine years will submit themselves for annual re-election.
The Board carried out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and that of its Committees and its and their performances during the year.
This was implemented by means of questionnaires circulated to the Directors, the results of which were then reviewed by the Board.
Issues covered included Board composition, meeting arrangements and communication.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and of its Committees.
The Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees was satisfactory.
The Chairman carried out a formal appraisal of each of the Directors during the year and the Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, similarly appraised the Chairman.
Relevant matters considered included the attendance and participation at Board and Committee meetings, commitment to Board activities and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the relevant Director.
As a result of this process, the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of each of the Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that each of them continues to show commitment to his role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
Directors Terms of Appointment It is the Boards policy that Directors shall retire and be subject to appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and be subject to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Directors who have served for more than nine years and who wish to continue in office are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the AIC Codes provisions and or the Companys Articles, each of Sir Brian Williamson, Mr RA Armstrong, MEDA Walton and Mr JP Williams will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010 and each offers himself for re-election.
Mr R Perkin will offer himself for election at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Having reviewed the AIC Code and Guide in the light of Sir David Walkers review of corporate governance in the UK banking industry, the Board decided during the year to appoint an independent Company Secretary.
Accordingly, since June 2009 the services of Company Secretary have been undertaken by Frostrow Capital LLP, in addition to its existing role as Board adviser.
Frostrow took over from Philip Dyke, a Partner of Electra Partners LLP, who undertook the duties of Company Secretary for the previous 20 years.
We thank him for his invaluable contribution.
Philip remains a Partner of Electra Partners LLP.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by the Audit Committee which comprises all the Directors, other than the Chairman of the Board with Mr RA Armstrong as Chairman of the Committee.
The Board has taken note of the suggestion that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
32 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, the internal financial controls and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of their engagement: developing and implementing the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: reviewing the arrangements in place within Electra Partners whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: and considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
The Committee annually reviews the performance of  LLP, the Companys external auditor.
In doing so the Committee considers a range of factors including the quality of service, the auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
The Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness and therefore has not considered it necessary, to date, to require the external auditors to tender for the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years and the current partner has been in place for three years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Under Company Law the reappointment of the external auditor is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has reviewed the provision of non-audit services and believes them to be cost effective and not an impediment to the external auditors objectivity and independence.
The non-audit services include the provision of taxation advice.
It has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors must be approved by the Committee and that any special projects must be approved in advance.
Following the review carried out by the Committee as to whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function, the Board has considered and continues to believe that the internal control systems in place within Electra Partners and the internal control reports provided by it give sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Remuneration and Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr JP Williams, comprises all non-executive Directors of the Company, the majority of whom will always be independent.
The Committee met once during the year to review the remuneration of Mr MEDA Walton and the results of this review are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committees duties in relation to remuneration, include determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Companys Directors.
The Committees duties in relation to nomination include identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies to maintain a balanced Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process carried out by Electra Partners under its contractual arrangements with the Company.
The Valuations Committee is chaired by Mr MEDA Walton.
The other members of the Committee are Ms C Bowe and Ms L Webber.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman and senior executives of Electra Partners.
Following appointment, Directors continue to receive other relevant training and advice as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with the Companys shareholders.
The Company, in conjunction with Electra Partners, maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and City analysts, with a number of presentations and visits being undertaken throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
33 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Reports Corporate Governance Reports At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders are welcome to attend and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and hear a presentation from Electra Partners covering the investment performance during the last financial year.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the annual report and accounts.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Companys website.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either through the Company Secretary, Frostrow Capital LLP, at 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL or at the Companys registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB.
Internal Control The Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the year end.
It is reviewed at regular intervals by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2009.
This encompasses a review of all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Companys consolidated annual financial statements, along with the half-yearly financial statements and interim management statements are prepared in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Since investment management, custody of assets and many administrative services are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy agreement by the Board of the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
Management Agreements and Investment Performance the Board regularly monitors the performance of Electra Partners to ensure that the Companys assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key controls of Electra Partners as follows: The Board reviews the terms of the management agreements and receives regular reports from Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews the certificates provided by Electra Partners on a six monthly basis verifying compliance with documented controls.
Voting Policy Under the investment management arrangements Electra Partners has complete discretion in relation to all voting issues in respect of the Companys investments.
Electra Partners policy has adopted and applies the Statement of Principles drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders Committee when it considers these in its reasonable judgement to best serve the financial interests of the Companys shareholders.
Electra Partners policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Other Information in the Report of the Directors Other Information regarding voting rights of shares, restrictions on voting, deadlines for exercising voting rights, appointment and replacement of Directors, powers of the Directors, authority to make market purchases of shares, substantial interests in the Companys shares and details concerning amendment of the Articles of Association of the Company is contained in the Report of the Directors.
34 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
