Report of the directors continued Significant agreements The Group is a party to a syndicated facility agreement with its relationship banking group relating to the provision of a 150 million revolving loan facility.
In the event of a change of control, provisions in the agreement would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had no borrowing positions under this arrangements predecessor in force at that date.
All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Under these provisions, a change of control would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions as required.
There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2010 Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday 6 May 2010 is set out on pages 80 to 82.
Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
This year the Board is asking shareholders to approve the adoption of new Articles of Association which incorporate a number of amendments to the existing Articles of Association.
The changes are primarily to reflect the implementation of the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which the Company has not already incorporated into its existing Articles of Association, the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 and certain amendments to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
An explanation of the main changes between the proposed and the existing Articles of Association are summarised in the explanatory notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
The current Long Term Incentive Plan established in 2000 will expire at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and the March 2010 awards will be the last to be made under that Plan.
The Board has always considered the Plan to be a key motivator of senior management performance for delivering long term shareholder value and shareholder approval will accordingly be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to a new Long Term Incentive Plan which is broadly similar to the current Plan and will use the same performance measures, subject to any appropriate review, whilst taking account of developments in best practice.
Following consultation, major shareholders were supportive of the new Plan, which will be used to grant awards from the 2010 Annual General Meeting onwards.
The Board wishes to continue to be able to offer shareholders the opportunity to elect to receive new ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash dividends if they so wish.
The current scrip dividend authority will expire around the time of the Annual General Meeting and the Board is therefore seeking a new authority which would run until May 2015.
In addition, it is proposed that a general meeting that is not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required as a result of the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, which increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Ability to call a general meeting on 14 days' notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where it was to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
At a meeting on 5 March 2010, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors believe that all the resolutions proposed to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shares in the Company.
Auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
Report on corporate governance The Company continues its commitment to high standards of corporate governance and recognises that appropriate boardroom behaviours are an essential component of best practice.
The Board, acknowledging its responsibility to shareholders in this area, has put in place an appropriate framework as described in the corporate governance policy guidelines on page 39 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
This report sets out how the framework is applied and the Companys compliance with the 2008 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
"The Combined Code is supplemented by a publication entitled ""Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" the Revised Turnbull Guidance to enable listed companies to comply with Listing Rule 9.8."
The Company has throughout 2009 applied the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below.
Information on share capital is provided on page 33.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 35 Report of the directors continued Report on corporate governance continued The Board The Board comprises Mr Malcolm Harris, non-executive Chairman: Mr Alastair Lyons, non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director: two executive directors, Mr David Ritchie, Chief Executive, and Mr Neil Cooper, Group Finance Director: and three further independent non-executive directors, Mr John Warren, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh and Mr Colin Holmes.
Mrs Lesley McDonagh, who has served as an independent non-executive director since 2003, will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As previously announced, Mr Neil Cooper will leave the Company on 6 May 2010.
The recruitment of a new Group Finance Director is well advanced.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive, set out in writing and agreed by the Board and the responsibilities of the non-executive Deputy Chairman have been treated similarly.
The Chairman provides leadership to and runs the Board, takes a leading role in determining its composition and structure, and sets its agenda.
He ensures that it receives accurate, timely and clear information, facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations on the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that effective communications are maintained with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the overall performance of the Group as dictated by the Boards strategy and for developing strategic operating plans that reflect the objectives and priorities established by the Board.
The Deputy Chairmans role is to support the Chairman in ensuring that the Board is effective, to deputise as necessary, to support the building and maintaining of constructive relations on the Board and to act as the Senior Independent Director.
The responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are to lead the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman carried out by the non-executive directors, to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present when appropriate and to provide an additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Board has determined that non-executive directors Mr Alastair Lyons, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr John Warren and Mr Colin Holmes are independent.
This includes an assessment of their independence in character and judgement and confirmation of their being free from any business or other relationship or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
The Board met nine times during 2009 and all the directors attended all meetings.
The Board receives timely, clear and comprehensive board papers a week in advance of each meeting and other information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in a way which allows open discussion and enables the non-executive directors to challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by the executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors also met during the year under review without the executive directors present.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes: responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group: approval of long term objectives, commercial strategy and annual budgets: oversight of the Groups operations and review of performance: changes to the Groups capital structure: financial reporting, approval of results, dividend policy and treasury policy: maintenance and review of the system of internal control and risk management: approval of major expenditure and transactions: changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, including new appointments: determining the remuneration of the non-executive directors: the introduction of new employee share plans and major changes to existing plans for shareholder approval: approval of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive: approval of the terms of reference of Board committees: annual review of its own performance and that of its Board committees: determining the independence of directors: review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
A management paper, subject to regular review, includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the Board to management and includes appropriate controls, authorities and procedures across the range of the Groups activities.
All directors have the right both individually and collectively to consult the Companys professional advisers and, if they are not satisfied with the advice so received, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary are also available to all directors.
Training is made available to directors as and when required and the Chairman ensures that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills appropriate to both their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During the year under review the directors received regulatory and technical updates.
Executive and non-executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, re-election is proposed where appropriate by the Nomination Committee and is voted on by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Colin Peter Holmes and Mr David James Ritchie will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-election of Mr Colin Peter Holmes and Mr David James Ritchie to shareholders.
A brief summary of their biographical details is set out on page 32.
All executive directors have notice periods of twelve months after the end of their first years service.
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods up to three years duration during which they have notice periods of up to twelve months, and their terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection.
36 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Report of the directors continued Report on corporate governance continued Following amendment of the Articles of Association, the Board has authorised potential conflicts of interest in accordance with Article 114 in respect of Mr Malcolm Harris and his positions as a non-executive director of the National House Building Council and the House Builders Federation, Mr David Ritchie and his position as Chairman of the corporate trustee of the Companys defined benefit pension scheme and Mr Alistair Lyons and his position as Chairman of Legal Marketing Services Limited.
The Board has procedures in place for ensuring that powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and it confirms compliance with those procedures.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, that they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Board performance evaluation During 2009, the Board completed a formal internal annual performance evaluation, using a discussion and interview process designed to produce an objective assessment, which covered areas of board composition, board objectives, content and quality of discussion and focus of board meetings, risk capture, outcomes, board support and corporate governance.
The results were collated by the Chairman and discussed by the Board.
It was concluded that the Board was effective, having met all 2009 objectives, focuses on the main issues facing the business and adds value to both shareholders and management.
Outputs included the further regular development of strategy and alternatives, supported by business environment and risk management discussions, and positive focused reviews of key areas impacting the business.
Individual director performance evaluations were undertaken by the Chairman using a discussion and interview process which covered each directors commitment, contribution, development, decision making, and interpersonal skills, with the link being made to training and development.
All directors were shown as continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate the necessary commitment and time to their respective roles.
The Senior Independent Director, with support from the other non-executive directors and following discussion with the executive directors, conducted a performance evaluation of the Chairman during 2009 which confirmed that the process of transition from Chief Executive to non-executive Chairman had been undertaken successfully and that Board effectiveness was benefiting from the retention of the Chairmans in depth knowledge of the sector and his continued participation in industry thinking.
It was concluded that the Chairman created an appropriate environment for Board debate with effective management of the Boards agenda.
Board committees The Board is assisted by a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and an Audit Committee.
During 2009, membership of the three Committees comprised four independent directors, plus the Chairman and Chief Executive in the case of the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr John Warren and the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Colin Holmes.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Malcolm Harris.
Each committee has written terms of reference from the Board.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 42 to 50: the activities of the Audit Committee are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 40 and 41: and the activities of the Nomination Committee are set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 41.
The Board completed a performance evaluation of its committees during 2009, and concluded that the committees were working and contributing effectively and continued to achieve their respective remits.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, which the full Board including all committee chairmen attend, and they are encouraged to exercise their right to vote and appoint proxies, including by way of an electronic voting facility.
The Notice of meeting is provided to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and proxy voting is disclosed, including votes withheld.
Shareholders are entitled to participate with questions relevant to the business of the meeting and have the opportunity to talk informally with the directors and senior management following the meeting.
The Board maintains regular contact and dialogue with shareholders through a series of presentations and meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, particularly in the period post announcement of final and half-yearly results.
Feedback received during the year under review was positive and helpful and the presentations made to financial analysts in respect of half-yearly and final results are made available on the Groups website www.
The Annual Report and Accounts, Preliminary Results, Half-yearly financial report, AGM voting, Corporate Social Responsibility report and other information are also available on the website.
The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman also the Senior Independent Director are accessible to shareholders and maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders to understand their concerns.
The Chairman has recently written to major shareholders advising of his availability should they wish to meet or hold discussions with him.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has during the year reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
It is able to report that the Company has complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout 2009 in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
A key part of the system of internal control is the maintenance of a risk analysis.
The risk analysis was kept under review during 2009 and in this way the Board is able to ensure that it properly identifies and grades the risks specific to the activities and operating environment of the business and reviews the response to operational, financial, compliance and other risks and reconsiders its policies of risk tolerance.
In setting these policies the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and consequently it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 37 Report of the directors continued Report on corporate governance continued The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and reports to the Board thereon.
It receives reports from the internal and external auditors and management which assess the efficiency of internal control and make recommendations for any improvements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of committee meetings to the Board and provides minutes of the meetings.
The Group has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these Annual Report and Accounts a control environment, with policies, procedures, processes and codes of conduct which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate risk over the range of business activities and improve business efficiency.
This control environment is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into the systems wherever possible.
The principal elements of the control environment are as follows: regular main Board meetings: regular Audit Committee meetings: regular Group Executive Committee meetings: an established management structure of operating regions with short lines of communication to the executive directors: regular regional board meetings, with comprehensive agendas dealing with all aspects of the business: defined operating controls and procedures with authorisation limits at appropriate levels across the Group: an internal audit department reporting regularly on compliance with controls, procedures and authority limits: a regular self certification process in respect of internal control through the management structure: a comprehensive financial reporting system with actual performance compared with budgets and forecasts on a regular basis, each region reporting through its regional board: and a regular comparison of the Groups performance against industry statistics and competitors.
There are a number of elements of the Groups internal control and risk management systems that are specifically related to the Groups financial reporting process.
Firstly, there is a well understood management structure which allows for clear accountability and an appropriately granular level of financial control.
This structure is underpinned by documented authority levels for business events laid out in the Group management paper.
The process of financial reporting is further supported by process documents for both internal management reporting and external Group reporting which stipulates amongst other things reporting timetables and contents of key management reports.
The Group maintains computer systems that record financial transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the Groups Internal Audit function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising from these exercises are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Control over cash expenditure which lies at the heart of any financial reporting process is key.
The Group maintains tight control in this area through a centralised Group payment function, regularly maintained authorisation documents and segregation of authorisation accountability.
The Group maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial reporting cycle, allowing management to assess the financial progress of the Group, and this is further supported by a formal budget and forecast process which ensures that there is a robust and relatively recent financial forecast in place at all times against which to assess performance.
Together with this financial reporting, the Group requires its regional management teams to report key business issues as part of a monthly regional reporting pack on a standardised basis.
Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which ensures that there is an audit trail between the output from the Groups financial reporting system and the Groups financial statements as they are prepared for reporting.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
These enquiries consist of the production and review of detailed financial forecasts covering the period January 2010 June 2011.
These forecasts take into account current market trends with reasonable judgements and estimates applied to arrive at future cashflow estimates.
As part of this review, the Group has analysed its forecast covenant compliance over this period, arriving at an assessment of the headroom evident between the forecast covenant test outcomes and the outcomes necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had received credit approval on the terms of a new banking facility which it subsequently entered into on 27 January 2010, and its forecast covenant compliance assessment was performed taking into account the specific requirements of this new facility.
This facility provides a committed revolving credit facility with a limit of 150 million maturing in September 2013.
As at 31 December, the Group had no drawings under its revolving credit facility, and held net cash in hand of 112 million.
The Group regards the combination of existing cash in hand and this new facility as adequate in terms of flexibility and liquidity for its needs.
More details on the Groups approach to financial risk management more widely are laid out in note 23.
For these reasons, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its accounts.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer Company Secretary 5 March 2010 Bovis Homes Group PLC Registered number 306718 38 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
