Management and Governance Corporate Governance Full Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Combined Code Meetings Committee Committee Committee The Board of Directors the Board support the principles of good Number of meetings corporate governance and the code of best practice laid down by the in the year 11 8 10 3 Combined Code issued in June 2008 the Code.
The Directors 1 Martin Gray 11 1 10 3 consider that the Group has been in compliance with the provisions Alex Snow 10 N A N A N A set out in Section 1 of the Code on corporate governance, save for Andrew Umbers 10 N A N A N A compliance with Schedule A due to the absence of a performance 2 Andrew Westenberger 8 N A N A N A bonus ceiling in the operation of the Groups remuneration policy.
Lord MacLaurin 10 8 6 3 This exception is explained in more detail in the Directors 3 Nicholas Irens 6 7 3 2 Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40.
4 Mark Nicholls 11 7 8 1 Peter Gibbs 10 N A 10 N A The Group does not appoint Non-Executive Directors for a specified 5 Chris Chambers 1 N A 2 N A term as required by provision A7.2 of the Combined Code.
Following successful completion of one years service, however, the The Remuneration Committee also held 8 procedural meetings at Group may terminate their contracts by two months notice in relatively short notice attended by Martin Gray and Peter Gibbs.
Additionally the current policy of the Board is that NonThe number of meetings also reflects the work of the Committee in Executive Directors should not serve more than nine years if it is the period leading up to the introduction of the partnership equity determined that this would prejudice their independence.
awards schemes in 2010 being the Group Joint Share Options Plan JSOP and subsidiary company Growth Share Options Plan The manner in which the Company has applied the principles of GSOP.
good governance set out in the Combined Code is outlined below and in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40.
Martin Gray chaired one Audit Committee meeting as alternate for Nick Irens.
Andrew Westenberger attended all Board meetings subsequent to his appointment on 8 April 2009.
At the year end, the Board comprised three Executive and five 3.
Nicholas Irens availability was impacted by periods of ill health and prior Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of all Directors as at the commitments.
date of this report are set out on pages 20 to 21.
Mark Nicholls was unable to attend 2 of the 10 substantive Remuneration Committee meetings.
Chris Chambers subsequent to his appointment on 3 November 2009, attended The Non-Executive Directors are Martin Gray, the Non-Executive the one Board meeting held.
Chairman, Lord MacLaurin, the Senior Independent Director, Peter Gibbs, Mark Nicholls, Chris Chambers and Roger Perkin.
Directors Service Agreements All are independent in character and judgement as set out in the The terms of the Directors service agreements and letters of Code as they have no relationships and there are no circumstances appointment are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Report which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, each Directors on pages 33 to 40.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors are judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of experience subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General to the Board.
In particular their complementary skills include legal Meeting of shareholders after their appointment.
Thereafter, all and accounting, asset management and corporate finance, demonstrable Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election at leadership and experience at the highest level and practical least every three years.
experience of the current regulatory and market environment.
Retirement by Rotation There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by The Board has agreed that all Directors will submit themselves for the Board, which is reviewed annually and otherwise as required.
re-election at this and subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Both This was last updated in October 2009.
The Board is responsible Chris Chambers and Roger Perkin will retire and seek election at for the overall strategy of the Group, acquisitions and divestments, this AGM given that this is the first AGM following their appointments.
major capital projects, financial, budgetary, material risk and Resolutions proposing the election and re-election of all Directors regulatory compliance matters, corporate governance and the are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman confirms, and in respect of the Chairman, the The following table identifies the scheduled number of Board Senior Independent Director confirms, that all the Directors whether meetings and Committee meetings held during the year to 31 seeking election, re-election or otherwise and following appropriate December 2009 and the attendance record of their members: formal enhanced performance evaluation continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their positions.
28 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Division of Responsibilities and Insurance Review of Internal Controls In accordance with the Code, there is a clear division of responsibilities The Board is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing set out in writing and agreed by the Board between the running of the significant risks faced by the Group to safeguard shareholders the Board by the Chairman and the responsibility for running the investments and the Groups assets.
The Board acknowledges that Group by the Chief Executive.
The Chairman, Martin Gray, is it is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for responsible for the leadership and conduct of the Board and for setting the control framework including financial, operational and ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, compliance controls and risk management systems, and for reviewing and the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors.
the effectiveness of these systems.
The principal risks and uncertainties section on page 22 to 23 and the Financial Instruments and Risk The Chief Executive, Alex Snow, is responsible for the day-to-day Management Framework detailed in note 3 to the Financial Statements and strategic management of the Groups activities.
He is ultimately describe the key risks facing the Group and how they are mitigated.
responsible for the operating plans and budgets for the businesses, monitoring business performance and ensuring these are reported The system of internal control, which includes the Groups public on to the Board.
The Board believes that these arrangements facilitate reporting processes, is designed to manage rather than eliminate the the effective management of the Group and provide a strong control risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Therefore, this can only environment as no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Lord MacLaurin, the Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the The Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness normal channels is deemed inappropriate.
of the system of internal control.
In March 2010, the Audit Committee considered the progress made during the year and assessed the A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the status of the Groups system of internal controls.
In evaluating the accounts is set out in the Directors Report on pages 22 to 27. effectiveness of the internal control framework, the Audit Committee considered how risks are identified, monitored, mitigated and The Group has taken out appropriate insurance cover in respect reported throughout the Group.
of legal action against its Directors and Officers.
In addition to insurance cover for Directors and Officers liability, the Group has The Audit Committee reviewed the key risks facing the Group and arranged insurance cover in respect of professional indemnity and the controls that have been put in place to mitigate them.
Changes corporate crime, employers liability, and public and products to the risk environment were highlighted, as were improvements to liability.
the control structure: most notably in the continued restructuring and upgrading of the compliance and risk functions, the strengthening Information and Professional Development of our corporate governance framework and enhanced procedures, As stated above, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors systems and reporting around suitability and new business processes.
receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the In accordance with the Combined Code, during the year the Audit Chairman, on all corporate governance matters and is responsible Committee has considered the continued need for an internal audit to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
function and whether this function should be internally or externally During the year, the Board introduced a formal and detailed facilitated.
The Audit Committee has determined that the needs of Corporate Governance Framework Framework across the the Group would be best served by retaining the current arrangements Group.
The Framework sets out the Groups practices in those of having an internal audit function that is externally facilitated matters covered by the Code and relevant laws and regulations and whilst providing increased focus on the areas to be audited.
sets out those matters reserved to and delegated from the Groups Boards and Committees.
All Directors have access to the advice The Audit Committee observed that during the year the internal and services of the Company Secretary and there are procedures control framework including controls relevant to financial reporting in place for taking independent professional advice to ensure that and the preparation of the Financial Statements continued to individual Directors and the Board Committees are provided with provide reasonable assurance that appropriate internal controls are sufficient resources to undertake their duties, at the Groups expense in place or are further strengthened where it was identified that if required.
potential risks or weaker controls existed.
New Directors are provided with the opportunity to undertake a thorough induction on joining the Board commensurate with their existing knowledge and understanding of the business of the Group.
Training needs are monitored and addressed as part of the annual performance evaluation process detailed below.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 Management and Governance Corporate Governance continued The Audit Committee considered whether there had been any Committee performance material failings or weaknesses in the internal controls of the Group.
Committee performance is reviewed as follows: The Audit Committee reported that risks are adequately managed and mitigated through the system of internal controls and that there The Audit and Remuneration Committees are subject to review were no material failings or weaknesses in the Groups internal by their own members.
Each member completes a questionnaire control system during the period under review.
The Board, therefore, to assess the effectiveness of the relevant Committee.
The results confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 and up for the 2009 annual review are collated by the Company Secretary to the approval date of the Financial Statements, there has been an and reviewed by the relevant Committee.
The Chairman of the on-going process of identifying, evaluating and managing the relevant Committee is responsible for leading a discussion on the significant risks faced by the Group and that the Group has results at the subsequent Board meeting.
Both Committees are complied with the Turnbull Committees guidance for Directors.
considered to be working effectively: The Nomination Committee is subject to review by its own The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing external members and is considered to be working effectively.
The Committee reports to the Board on the Groups full year and half year results, having examined the The following committees deal with the specific aspects of the accounting policies on which they are based and ensures compliance Groups affairs: with relevant accounting standards and legislation.
Audit Committee Performance The Audit Committee is comprised of three independent Non-Executive The Board conducts a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of Directors.
Nicholas Irens acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee individual Directors, its own performance and that of its Committees until his resignation on 31 December 2009, with Lord MacLaurin and and for 2009 has further improved its processes in this regard through Mark Nicholls as members.
Roger Perkin was appointed Chairman of defined and consistent individual Director evaluations.
The Board the Audit Committee upon joining the Company as a Non-Executive annually considers whether it might be appropriate to engage a Director on 27 January 2010.
Roger Perkin, as a Chartered Accountant third party to conduct its performance evaluations and, whilst it is with recent and relevant financial experience gained with Ernst & considering the Walker recommendations, in this regard has concluded Young LLP, was considered by the Nomination Committee to be that for the current year the structure provides sufficient scrutiny to appropriate for the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
meet the needs of the Group.
The Board strives to continue to meet corporate governance best practice and efforts continue to be made The Groups external and internal auditors and the Executive Directors to ensure the correct balance of information flow up to the Group may attend Committee meetings by invitation.
In its 2009 evaluation of performance, the Board recognised request discussions with the external auditors following Audit Committee the need to continue to evolve and improve its own performance to meetings.
The discussions take place without Executive Directors being meet the expectations of regulators and to meet best practice.
present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
The Individual Performance evaluation is conducted through the The Terms of Reference for the Committee comply with the Combined provision of a defined set of qualitative and quantitative assessment Code and are available for inspection at the Companys registered questions supported by comments from the appraisers.
Appraisals office and at the Annual General Meeting.
A summary of these were conducted for all the Directors during January to March 2010 Terms is on the Groups website: www.
in respect of their performance in 2009.
The Chairman confirms that all the Directors whether seeking election and re-election or The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for reviewing the otherwise continue to perform effectively and demonstrate external auditors independence, objectivity and the effectiveness of commitment to their positions.
the audit process taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: developing and implementing policy In addition to the individual performance appraisals, the Board on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit considers its overall performance as a body and the performance services and reporting to the Board and, identifying any matters of its Committees.
Each member of the Board completes a detailed which require action or improvement: considering the major findings Board Effectiveness questionnaire following the year end.
of any internal investigations and managements response: and Recognising the need for governance standards to continue to monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
evolve and improve to meet the expectations of regulators and the It is responsible for reviewing the 2009 Preliminary announcement, Board, the Board was considered to be performing effectively Annual Report, the Interim Results and announcement, Interim throughout this process and no significant issues were raised.
Management Statements and reports from the external auditors.
30 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements The Committee recommended to the Board for shareholder approval Nomination Committee the re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the The Committee includes Martin Gray as Chairman who is joined auditors during 2009.
Through their review of the balance of audit by Lord MacLaurin, and Mark Nicholls.
Nick Irens left the Committee and non-audit work performed and fees paid to  following his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2009.
LLP, the Committee concluded that auditors independence has been maintained throughout 2009 and the audit process was effective.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee comply with the Combined Code and are available for inspection at the Companys Remuneration Committee registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
A summary The Remuneration Committee comprises five Non-Executive of these Terms are on the Groups website: www.
Directors all of whom are considered to be independent.
Peter Gibbs The Nomination Committee is responsible for all elements of the has served as its Chairman since 29 May 2008.
Lord MacLaurin nomination process for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors continues to make a valuable contribution to the work of the Committee.
Martin Gray, and Mark Nicholls were also members of the Committee during 2009 whilst Chris Chambers joined the Committee on 19 The Chairman of the Nomination Committee reports the November 2009.
Nick Irens ceased to be a member of the Committee Committees determinations to the Board at the following Board upon his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2009. meeting and is available to report to shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee met ten times on substantive business during 2009 as part of the continuing review of the Groups During the year, the Nomination Committee discussed succession remuneration and reward structure.
There were an additional eight planning for the Board.
The Nomination Committee follows a process meetings reflecting the procedural requirements of the Committee for nominating candidates for Board appointments which involves in its role of approving the grant and exercise of share awards below considering the structure, size and composition of the existing Board, Board level.
The number of meetings also reflected the consideration determining a description of the role and capabilities required, and adoption of new partnership equity arrangements, being the drawing up a shortlist of candidates, holding a series of one-to-one introduction of the Partnership Equity Plans Joint Share meetings between the candidates and Non-Executive Directors, and Ownership Plan for Executives of the Company and Growth Share then candidates meeting with all members of the Board.
In 2009 the Option Plans for senior employees of Evolution Securities Limited Committee used external consultants to assist with the search for and Williams fide Bro Limited.
Further details of the partnership both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Future appointments equity plans can be found on page 36 of the Directors Remuneration will follow a similar process, with consideration given to whether Report.
The Executive Directors attend certain parts of meetings external advertising or external advice is required.
of the Remuneration Committee by invitation but do not attend discussions on their own remuneration.
The terms of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 37.
The terms The Terms of Reference for the Committee comply with the Combined of appointment and time commitments of Non-Executive Directors Code and are available for inspection at the Companys registered are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
office and at the Annual General Meeting.
These were updated in October 2009 principally to make reference to the need to consider, Environmental, Social and Governance ESG where appropriate, the principles set out in the FSAs Code of ESG issues will be considered by the Board through the Risk Committee practice on remuneration policies and to extend the remit of the to identify, assess and manage the significant risks and opportunities Committee to recommending and monitoring the level and structure affecting the Groups long and short-term value arising from its of remuneration for all employees.
A summary of these Terms is also handling of ESG matters, as well as opportunities to enhance value on the Groups website: www.
that may arise from an appropriate response.
It has processes in place to identify and mitigate all material risks to the short and long-term The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the value of the Group, and is always seeking to enhance value by wholly Committees findings to the Board at the following Board meeting.
The Board has identified no ESG related risks Further details of how these responsibilities are executed and the that may significantly affect the Groups short or long-term value.
Groups policies on remuneration, service contracts and share options are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40.
Details of professional advice received on remuneration issues can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31 Management and Governance Corporate Governance continued The Board considers that the Group makes appropriate provision Relations with Shareholders for environmental issues appropriate to the size of the Group and The Board is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue the financial services sector in which it operates.
We aim to adopt with shareholders takes place and welcomes shareholder participation.
reasonable measures to comply with relevant environmental legislation, to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to minimise The Board is in regular dialogue with institutional investors, and analysts, negative environmental impacts and to conserve natural resources.
principally around the time of the Groups announcement of results Appropriate forms of instruction, information, training and but also throughout the year.
The Chairman of the Remuneration supervision are made available to enable employees to assist us in Committee and where appropriate the Finance Director entered into meeting our obligations.
We continue to work towards being able extensive dialogue with institutional shareholders and their voting to more carefully monitor the positive impact that our polices have agencies ahead of the introduction of the Partnership Equity Plans.
on the management of our environmental footprint.
The Board recognises the importance of investor relations and The Group is committed to upholding its social responsibility and communications with shareholders throughout the year as well as has measures in place to address this responsibility.
Throughout the year, the Group Chairman, CEO, Finance Director and the Chairman of the Remuneration The Group adheres to the FSA principles of business and follows its Committee maintain a dialogue with the principal shareholders, rules and guidance on appropriate behaviour as well as guidance in order to understand their issues and concerns discussing matters provided by the UK Listing Authority and other regulatory bodies of governance, strategy and remuneration, and are responsible for under which the Group acts.
Furthermore, the Group is committed ensuring that shareholders views are communicated to the Board to extending its ethical obligations beyond regulatory compliance as as a whole through discussions at Board and Committee meetings.
regards to conduct in its relations with its stakeholders, including clients, suppliers, advisers, and shareholders.
Share dealing service The Group participates in a Share Deal service offered by Capita The Group takes its responsibilities to ensure the Health and Safety Registrars whereby small existing shareholders have the opportunity, of its staff and any visitors to its offices seriously.
It is the policy of through an online and telephone share dealing service, to buy or sell the Group and its associated companies to comply with the terms shares in many leading UK Companies.
An online and telephone of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and any subsequent facility is available allowing instant trading at prices provided at legislation and also to provide and maintain a healthy and safe the time you give your instruction.
There is no need to pre-register.
This is a quick and easy share dealing service and is available to either sell or buy Evolution Group Plc shares.
This benefits both the Going Concern Group and shareholders in extending the market for the Groups These Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis shares and facilitating dealing for private shareholders.
as the Directors have satisfied themselves that, at the time of approving the Financial Statements and having taken into consideration the To deal online or by telephone you will need to provide your surname, strong cash holdings, absence of long term third party debt and Investor Code reference number which may be found on a recent share ongoing profitability, the Group and Company have adequate certificate, statement or tax voucher, full postcode and your date of birth.
resources to continue in operational existence for the near future.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares please contact: www.
com online dealing 0871 664 0454 telephone dealing calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras Full terms, conditions and risks apply and are available on request or by visiting www.
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares.
The price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount that you originally invested.
Shareholders who may wish to donate their shares to charity may do so free of charge through Share Gift.
Further details are available at www.
The Groups website at www.
com contains information on the Group, its Board and Committees, its operating subsidiaries and the products and services that it offers as well as share price performance and recent announcements.
32 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
