F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 33 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to, and strives for, best Financial Officer of Achmea, a 10 per cent.
shareholder in practice in corporate governance.
The Board is the Company is the only Non-executive Director who does accountable to the Companys shareholders for good not meet the criteria of independence as set out in the corporate governance.
This statement describes how the accepted guidance.
principles of corporate governance set out in section one of the Combined Code issued in 2006 the Code have The biographies of the Directors appear on page 27.
demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing sufficient to bring independent judgement on Statement of compliance issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout of conduct which are vital to the success of the Group.
All the year ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date Directors have access to the advice and services of the hereof, applied the principles and met the requirements of Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for the Code with the following two exceptions: ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The For the period from 7 May 2009 until the appointment of Board meets formally on a regular basis and is responsible Messrs Poynter and Yates on 1 June 2009, the for approving the Groups objectives and policies.
The composition of the Board did not meet code provision Board focuses mainly on strategy, investment and financial A3.2 in that half the Board, excluding the Chairman, did performance, the Groups control environment and not comprise of independent Non-executive Directors.
executive management and Board succession.
To enable The Board has complied fully with this provision since the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive 1 June 2009. appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly briefed on issues for consideration in advance of For the period from 11 December 2009 until the meetings.
In addition, all Directors have access to senior appointment of Gerhard Roggemann on 18 January management and can request, either during meetings or at 2010, the composition of the Remuneration Committee other appropriate times, further explanation or written did not meet code provision B2.1 in that it only had two papers on matters as they see fit.
No Committee meetings ocurred during that period and the Remuneration Committee has complied The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically with this provision since 18 January 2010. reserved to it the Board Reserved List.
This is contained in The Directors Guide, a training and reference The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance, document issued to all Directors on appointment and Remuneration and Nomination committees will be available updated as appropriate.
The Board Reserved List is to answer questions at this years Annual General Meeting reviewed annually and clearly sets out that authority is to be held on Tuesday, 4 May 2010. delegated from the Board to Board Committees and to management.
This ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by the Board prior to Going concern implementation.
Examples of matters reserved for the The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the out in the relevant guidelines to the Code, on the approval of: The Group strategy: the annual budget: the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis in composition and terms of reference of any of the Board preparing Financial Statements.
Committees: the high level organisational structure: and the review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal The Groups business activities, together with the factors control.
likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Business Review on The Board committees pages 22 to 24.
In addition, note 38 to the Financial The Board has established a number of standing Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and committees to facilitate the smooth transaction of business processes for managing its capital: its financial risk within the Group.
management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and The terms of reference of each Board Committee outlining liquidity risk.
its authority and duties are reviewed and approved annually by the Board, are published on the Companys website and The Group has considerable financial resources together are available on written request from the Company with long-term contracts with a number of clients across Secretary.
The terms of reference of each of the Board different geographic areas and industries.
After making Committees provide the authority to take independent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys the Company and the Group have adequate resources to expense.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial a Statement of the Nomination Committee Statements.
Purpose and Terms of Reference The Board The Committee leads the process, and makes The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, recommendations to the Board, for all new Board two Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors, appointments and the appointment of Non-executive four of whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors to any Board Committee.
It is responsible for Directors.
Jeff Medlock, who in 2004 retired as Chief evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 34 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information on the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and b Statement of the Audit, Risk & Compliance transparent appointment process exists.
Committee Membership Purpose and Terms of Reference The Committee is chaired by Nick MacAndrew.
The The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls Committee comprises the Chairman and three Nonsurrounding the production of the Groups Financial executive Directors, all of whom are Independent Statements and provides the Board with assurance that Non-executive Directors.
Throughout 2009, the Committee the processes and controls exist to facilitate reporting on met formally on two occasions.
the Groups risk management activities, including those related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters, Members of the Nomination Committee: internal control and adherence to policies and procedures.
Nick MacAndrew Chairman, Keith Bedell-Pearce, Brian Larcombe and Gerhard Roggemann.
Membership The Committee is chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce.
The Activities and work of the Committee Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive On 7 May 2009, the Companys former Chairman, Robert Directors.
Jenkins, and Dick fide Beus, an independent Non-executive Director, retired from the Board.
In April 2009 the Members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee formally engaged an external search Committee: consultancy to conduct a search for two independent Keith Bedell-Pearce Chairman, Brian Larcombe, Kieran Non-executive Directors and on 1 June 2009, Kieran Poynter and Gerhard Roggemann.
The Board is satisfied Poynter and Roger Yates joined the Board as independent that at least one member of the Committee has recent and Non-executive Directors.
Roger Yates resigned from the relevant financial experience, a position that should Board on 11 December 2009 following his appointment to continue throughout 2010. a full-time position overseas.
On 3 July 2009 Sir Adrian Montague and Trevor Matthews retired from the Board.
The Activities and work of the Committee Committee and the Board are currently undertaking a The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as search for an independent Non-executive Director.
allocated by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings.
Two meetings are held early in the year, one to As an integral part of its succession planning, the deal with matters of governance for example, compliance Committee reviews the balance and composition of the with the Code, the Financial Services Act, the effectiveness Board including the number of Directors serving thereon.
of internal controls and risk management systems, monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit Risk & On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and Compliance department and monitoring and reviewing the conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors set independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external out in the standard letter of appointment to ensure that audit process and the other to consider the integrity of the they continue to meet the requirements of the Code.
This year-end Financial Statements and any formal standard letter of appointment can be inspected during announcements relating to the Companys and the Groups normal working hours at the Companys registered office financial performance, including any significant financial by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Committee reporting judgements contained therein.
A similar process considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Nonis adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and meeting taking place late in the year to consider relevant assesses the contribution of the Directors, their year-end matters.
The Committee also considers and independence and their suitability for re-election prior to an reviews other risk management or control documentation appropriate resolution being put to shareholders.
All including the Companys policy on whistleblowing, the Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first results of internal and external audit and compliance opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at reports or management letters, and oversees the award of least every three years.
any non-audit related consultancy work.
On an annual basis the Committee considers and makes a For the Board recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, reNick MacAndrew appointment or removal of the external auditors and Chairman, Nomination Committee approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
31 March 2010 Other meetings of the Committee are called at the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control issues that may emerge during the year as well as other matters that the Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate.
For the Board Keith Bedell-Pearce Chairman, Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee 31 March 2010 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 35 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Activities and work of the Committee c Statement of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups remuneration policy as set out in the Directors Purpose and Terms of Reference Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 45.
Within that Full details of the purpose, terms of reference, activities and policy, the Committee is responsible for determining the work of the Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and Remuneration Report.
making recommendations and monitoring the specific remuneration packages of senior management below Membership Board level.
It is also responsible for the Companys The Chairman of the Committee is Brian Larcombe.
The incentive schemes for employees, including the bonus Committee comprises solely independent scheme and the grant of awards under the long term Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Remuneration Committee: During 2009 the Committee considered the remuneration Brian Larcombe Chairman, Keith Bedell-Pearce and related guidance issued by the FSA and is satisfied that the Gerhard Roggemann appointed 18 January 2010. remuneration policies of the Group do not unduly encourage excessive risk taking.
Mr MacAndrew served as a member of the Committee until his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 7 May For the Board 2009.
Mr Yates served as a member of the Committee Brian Larcombe from 1 June 2009 to 11 December 2009.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 31 March 2010 Attendees at the Remuneration Committee The Companys Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Head of Human Resources attended all meetings of the Committee in 2009.
Mr Medlock also attended all Committee meetings in 2009.
Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of Board and formal committee meetings held in 2009 and the attendance record of the individual Directors as members of committees of the Board.
In addition to the meetings detailed below a number of Directors meetings, sub-committees of the Board and Board Committees were held.
Non-executive Director Audit, Risk & meetings without Compliance Remuneration Nomination Board management present Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 2009 2008 7 9 2 2 4 4 6 4 2 3 1 2 Nick MacAndrew 7 2 2 3 Alain Grisay 7 2 Keith Bedell-Pearce 6 2 4 5 3 Dick fide Beus 3 1 2 3 Robert Jenkins 3 1 2 Brian Larcombe 7 2 4 6 2 David Logan 7 Jeff Medlock 7 2 4 Kieran Poynter 4 1 2 5 Trevor Matthews 4 1 5 Sir Adrian Montague 4 1 2 6 Gerhard Roggemann 7 2 2 7 Roger Yates 4 1 3 1 Appointed Chairman and resigned from the Remuneration Committee and Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee on 7 May 2009 2 Appointed a member of the Nomination Committee on 7 May 2009 3 Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 7 May 2009.
4 Appointed as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committee on 1 June 2009.
5 Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committee on 3 July 2009.
6 Appointed a member of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee and Nomination Committee on 7 May 2009.
7 Appointed as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committee on 1 June 2009 and resigned from the Board and relevant Board Committee on 11 December 2009 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 36 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Board roles issues in greater depth and to identify areas requiring improvement.
Chairman The Chairman of the Company is Nick MacAndrew.
As The Company has a full and formal induction process for all Chairman, Mr MacAndrew is responsible for leadership of new appointments to the Board.
The Chairman, in the Board and ensuring the effective running and consultation with the Company Secretary and individual management of the Board.
The role profile of the Chairman Directors, is responsible for assessing the professional outlines the specific responsibilities of the Chairman and development needs of each Director.
The induction includes the following: process and ongoing professional development is Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation account of the issues and concerns of each Board with the individual Director, identifies the most appropriate member and that members of the Board receive method of ensuring professional development.
The accurate, timely and clear information on the Company Company Secretary also assists in organising attendance and related matters to enable them to monitor the at internal or external courses to develop familiarity with the Companys performance and take sound decisions.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and Directors conflicts of interest ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to the views of major investors.
avoid a situation in which they have or can have an interest Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of Secretary, a formal induction and development process, the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if including any relevant internal and external training, the relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with exists for all Directors and the Board as a whole with a the Articles of Association by the other Directors.
The view to enhancing the Boards effectiveness.
Articles of Association were amended to include the relevant authorisation for Directors to approve such Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and conflicts by a resolution of shareholders at the AGM held Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution on 13 May 2008. from all Directors.
The performance of the Chairman since his appointment as Directors and Directors election and re-election Chairman during 2009 was reviewed by the Non-executive The Directors who served at any time during the year Directors in a meeting chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce, the ended 31 December 2009 are as shown in the Directors Senior Independent Director.
The Non-executive Directors Remuneration Report on page 44.
Details of the Executive concluded at the meeting that Nick MacAndrew displayed Directors service contracts and Non-executive Directors the characteristics expected of a Chairman.
letters of appointment can be found on page 43.
Kieran Poynter, an independent Non-executive Director, Chief Executive was appointed during the year.
As such, he will retire at the The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay.
As Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer Chief Executive, Mr Grisay is responsible for overseeing the himself for election.
implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, Groups business activities and ensuring the effective at least one third of Directors eligible to stand for rerunning of the business and the Executive Committee.
election must do so at each Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Messrs Logan and MacAndrew have been Non-executive Directors selected by the Nomination Committee and the Board to Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Larcombe, Poynter, Medlock and retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for reRoggemann are the Companys Non-executive Directors.
election at the Annual General Meeting.
As Non-executive Directors they are responsible for: promoting entrepreneurial leadership and the highest The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, standards of governance within a framework of prudent size and composition of the Board, and confirms that all and effective controls: constructively challenging and Directors offering themselves for re-election at the Annual helping develop strategic proposals: ensuring that the General Meeting demonstrate commitment to their role and Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its devote sufficient time to perform their roles as members of strategic objectives: reviewing management performance: the Board and any Board Committee.
determining appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration Remuneration Committee members, taking In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, 2009, the Nomination Committee gave more detailed Executive Directors: setting the Companys values and consideration to the proposed re-election of Mr Bedellstandards to ensure its obligations to its stakeholders are Pearce, given that he is currently serving in his third understood and met: and reviewing communication with three-year term of appointment.
It has been agreed that shareholders.
Mr Bedell-Pearce will seek annual re-election from shareholders.
Board evaluation and professional development A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the The Nomination Committee believes that all Directors performance of the Board, its principal Committees and the submitting themselves for election and re-election should Chairman was conducted during the year.
The Board be re-elected and can confirm that all Non-executive evaluation was carried out with the assistance of the Directors display the qualities expected of an effective Company Secretary and was led by the Chairman.
procedure adopted was for each Director to complete a detailed questionnaire, on a non-attributable basis, on their Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or perception of the composition, operation and effectiveness re-election can be found on page 27. of the Board and its Committees.
Each Director is then interviewed by the Chairman in order to explore certain F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 37 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Board succession planning Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull The Nomination Committee has a detailed succession plan Guidance.
Such procedures have been in place for the Boards Non-executive Directors.
The plan was throughout the year and up to 10 March 2010, the date of shaped by the aforementioned skills profile, projected and approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
A expected normal retirements, and the Companys high-level overview of the ongoing process for identifying, commitment to corporate governance best practice.
The evaluating and managing significant risks including social, plan is approved annually by the Board.
environmental and ethical issues is detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it Relations with shareholders complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that Control environment communications are given high priority.
The Company The Group is committed to the highest standards of welcomes the views of shareholders and, where business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards practicable, enters into dialogue with institutional across all areas of the business.
The Group has in place shareholders based on the need for mutual understanding appropriate procedures for the reporting and resolution of of objectives.
The Companys Chief Executive and Chief activities that do not meet the required standards of Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional business conduct.
shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of the year end and interim results: the The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for Senior Independent Director and all other Non-executive planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business Directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
operations in order to achieve its objectives.
The structure The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a is designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet and framework for key areas of the Groups business.
discuss issues with Directors and senior management of the Company.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive General Meeting on Tuesday, 4 May 2010 can be found in and is devolved through a documented executive structure the Notice of the meeting commencing on page 139. with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group management are, therefore, At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with accountable for the operation of the systems of internal the provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy controls within the Groups business.
votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee Chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of Business risks the formal notice of the Annual General Meeting complies The identification of major business risks is carried out by with the Code.
The results of the votes cast at the Annual the Board in conjunction with management and General Meeting are posted on the Companys website.
procedures to control these risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Following the fide-merger from Friends Provident plc, Nick MacAndrew met with a number of the Companys largest Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the shareholders and presented their feedback on the business, covering all locations.
These quarterly reports Company to the Board.
Unattributable feedback from a include issues of material business risk which are number of the Companys shareholders, facilitated by the discussed in detail by the Executive Committee which Companys brokers, is also presented to the Board includes both Executive Directors.
All significant items following managements year-end results presentations.
identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The key risks facing the Group at the year-end and the Electronic communications mitigating actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business Review on page 13.
Copies of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Notice of Annual General Meeting, other Monitoring and corrective action corporate publications, press releases and announcements There is a formal compliance function, which is integrated are available on the Companys website.
Shareholders are with the internal audit function and operational risk encouraged to take advantage of the provisions allowing function, to form an Audit, Risk & Compliance department.
the Company to communicate electronically.
The Audit, Risk & Compliance department conducts regular monitoring of various business areas and control Internal control procedures in line with a plan agreed annually with the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
Any issues of of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a significance are brought to the attention of the Board by regular basis.
Managements role is to implement and the Audit, Risk & Compliance department and through the operate the Board policies on risk and risk management.
Planned corrective actions are The system of internal control is designed to manage rather independently monitored for timely completion and than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business reviewed by the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness of the operation of this framework at least The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, twice each year.
complied with the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Independence of the auditors The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the The procedures that the Directors have established are independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups designed to provide effective control within the Group and auditors and has satisfied itself that during the year no accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on aspect of their work was impaired on these grounds.
In the Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants maintaining a clear perception of independence and in England and Wales Internal Control: Guidance for F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 38 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information balancing that with the best interests of the Group, the During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering whom are independent of KPMG, the external auditors, the award of non-audit work to the Groups auditors.
The provided non-audit related services to the Group.
Details of policy applied during 2009 is detailed below.
fees paid to these firms during 2009 are disclosed in note 5 c on page 67 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Statements.
Groups auditors undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work involving Future developments accountancy firms carried out in a manner that affords The Board believes that the controls in place during 2009 value for money while taking into account relevant ethical have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
The firm must not be in a position of conflict in Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of respect of the work in question and must have the skill, governance and business conduct and will ensure that competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best those controls continue to develop in line with the interests of the Group.
requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform nonBy order of the Board, audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Risk & Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for them Secretary to do so and there are no actual or perceived 80 George Street independence issues.
Edinburgh EH2 3BU 31 March 2010 The Chairman of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is authorised to approve the use of auditors for non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of the auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
When the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the views of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
The last competitive audit tender exercise was undertaken in 2006.
