BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders BPs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2009 has Corporate governance practices been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing in our Annual Report In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The significant differences between BPs corporate governance practices as a UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US companies are listed as follows: Code of ethics Independence The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which chief financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, group controller, reflect the UKs Combined Code and its principles-based approach to general auditors and chief accounting officer as required by the provisions corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP makes of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by determinations of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
There have been no waivers from the code of ethics relating to BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive any officers.
The code has been amended to reflect changes to the titles directors be determined by the board to be independent in character and and posts of certain senior officers.
The amended code of ethics has judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could been filed as an exhibit to our Annual Report on Form 20-F. materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The BP board In June 2005, BP published a code of conduct, which is applicable has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors to all employees.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs listing standards.
Principal accountants fees and services The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the Committees engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst BP has a number of board committees which are broadly comparable in & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
The purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather than executive defined audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not prohibited committee, nomination rather than nominating corporate governance by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & Young is committee and remuneration rather than compensation committee.
engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are BP also has an audit committee, which NYSE rules require for both US important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services were companies and foreign private issuers.
These committees are composed awarded either through a full competitive tender process or following an solely of non-executive directors whom the board has determined to be assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to that of other independent, in the manner described above.
These services are for a fixed term.
The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specific services within main tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board the following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial committees on pages 74-80.
BP has not, therefore, adopted separate reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control charters for each committee.
reviews excluding any services relating to information systems design Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP and implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice is required to have an audit committee which satisfies the requirements on business and accounting process improvement excluding any of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.
06 of the NYSE services relating to information systems design and implementation Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with these relating to BPs financial statements or accounting records : due diligence requirements.
in connection with acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures excluding One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit valuation or involvement in prospective financial information : income tax committee states that at least one member of the audit committee is to and indirect tax compliance and advisory services: and employee tax have accounting or related financial management expertise.
As reported services excluding tax services that could impair independence : in BP Annual Report on Form 20-F 2008, the board determined that provision of, or access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, Douglas Flint possessed such expertise and also possesses the financial seminars and other training materials: provision of reports from data and audit committee experiences set forth in both the Combined Code gathered on non-financial policies and information: and assistance with and SEC rules see Audit committee report on page 74. understanding non-financial regulatory requirements.
Additionally, any proposed service not included in the pre-approved services, must be Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans approved in advance prior to commencement of the engagement.
The The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be audit committee has delegated to the chairman of the audit committee given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and authority to approve permitted services provided that the chairman material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements reports any decisions to the committee at its next scheduled meeting.
which are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what each year.
The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by are considered material revisions.
the committee in the context of other global companies for cost effectiveness.
The committee keeps under review the scope and results Code of ethics of audit work and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of External regulation and BP policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees.
BP has audit partner every five years.
adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees, and has board See Financial statements Note 14 on page 136 and Audit governance principles which address the conduct of directors.
In addition committee report on page 74 for details of audit fees.
BP has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers as required by the SEC.
The code has been amended to reflect changes to the titles and posts of certain senior officers.
BP considers that these codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
