Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put share issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial in place a framework for corporate governance which it reporting, risk management, investment performance, believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
share price discount, corporate governance, Board This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the appointments and the appointment of the Manager Directors Report.
AIC Code The Board currently consists of six non-executive The Board of Fidelity European Values PLC has Directors, five of whom are independent of the considered the principles and recommendations of the Companys Manager.
Mr Fraser was an employee of AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by the Manager until the end of December 2008 and is reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for therefore not independent.
The Board believes it to be Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as an important aspect of the corporate governance of an explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles investment trust company that there should be links with set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as the Manager to ensure that the Manager is party to the setting out additional principles and recommendations responsibility, authority and accountability of the Board on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference Following service to the Company since launch, the to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Chairman is retiring from the Board following this years Code will provide better information to shareholders.
In common with most The AIC Code and the AIC Guide may be found at investment trusts there is no chief executive as the www.
co. uk management function has been delegated as set out above and is supervised by the Chairman and the Board.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and considers that the Company The independent Directors form the membership has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code of the Audit Committee and the Management and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Engagement Committee.
Code and associated disclosure requirements of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
The Combined Senior Independent Director and Chairman Code includes provisions relating to: of the Audit Committee Mr van der Klugt was appointed to these roles following the role of the chief executive the retirement of Mr Simpson in 2009.
Mr Robinson will executive directors remuneration be appointed to these roles following this years Annual the need for an internal audit function General Meeting when Mr van der Klugt will assume the role of Chairman.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers Board balance that these provisions are not relevant to the position of The Directors believe that the Board has a balance Fidelity European Values PLC, being an externally of skills, experience and length of service to provide managed investment company.
The Company has effective strategic leadership and proper governance of therefore not reported further in respect of these the Company.
In particular they have a wide knowledge provisions.
and experience of fund management, investment trust management and business in Europe.
Biographical The Company has no separate Nomination & details of all the Directors are given on pages 14 and 15 Remuneration Committee and in this respect does not of this report.
Dr Niblett was appointed to the Board on comply with the Combined Code principle A.
The reasons for non-compliance are detailed below.
The Board meets formally at least fives times a year and between these meetings there is regular contact with THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES the Manager.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
The Board Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the to pursue matters referred from the Board and the Companys affairs.
It delegates through the Management Chairman is in contact with the other Directors regularly Agreement and through specific instructions the day without representatives of the Manager being present.
to day management of the Company to the Manager, The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all FIL Investments International.
The Company has no times with only the interests of the shareholders in mind executives or employees.
All matters not delegated and quite independently of any other associations.
It to the Manager are reserved for the Boards decision.
endeavours to provide leadership in terms of the Matters reserved for the Board include, inter alia, direction of the Company.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 25 Corporate Governance Statement Regular Board Audit Committee Management Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Robert Walther 4 5 2 2 1 1 Simon Duckworth, DL 5 5 2 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a James Robinson 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 David Simpson 3 3 1 1 1 1 Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 2 2 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
1 Retired 19 May 2009 The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors discharge its duties effectively and the table above gives are available for inspection at the registered office of the the attendance record for the formal meetings held Company and will be made available prior to the during the year.
The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The Changes to the Companys Articles of Association appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the be made by special resolution.
advice and services of the Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Training Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed Upon appointment, or shortly thereafter, each Director and that applicable rules and regulations are complied receives training on the investment operations and with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled to administration functions of the Company, together take independent professional advice, at the Companys with a summary of their duties and responsibilities.
The expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the AIC, the Auditor and the Company Secretary Supply and agenda of information regarding any proposed developments or changes in The Board receives in due time information in a form law or regulations that affect the Company and or and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its the Directors.
The Board meeting papers are the key source of regular information for the Board, the contents of which Election and re-election are determined by the Board and contain sufficient As required by company law, all newly appointed information on the financial condition of the Company.
Directors stand for election by the shareholders at the Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board Annual General Meeting following their appointment meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on matters by the Board.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Association, the Directors offer themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years.
Directors who have The Board has delegated its corporate governance served on the Board for more than nine years and any responsibilities to the Audit and Management Director who is employed by the Manager, or who has Engagement Committees, each composed of all had a recent employment relationship with the Manager, the independent Directors.
are subject to annual re-election.
A procedure has been put in place whereby formal letters of appointment, Changes to the Board which specify the terms of appointment, are issued to All appointments to the Board and replacements of new Directors on appointment and to existing Directors Directors take place in accordance with the Companies as they retire and are subject to re-election at the Annual Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board does not believe that the Company complies with the requirements of the AIC period of time a person may serve as a Director should Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
the independent Directors take the lead in the appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new The names of Directors submitted for election and Director will be discussed and approved by the whole re-election are accompanied by sufficient biographical Board.
As a consequence, there is no Nomination details to enable shareholders to make an informed Committee.
External consultants are used to identify decision.
Page 26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Statement presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports are Performance evaluation reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their issue A process for the evaluation of the Board, its to ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
Committees and its Directors has been put in place and takes place regularly.
The process includes regular Going concern discussion and regular written questionnaires, although The Companys business activities and the factors likely the format may change from time to time to ensure to affect its future performance and position are set out that the Board does not become complacent in fulfilling in the Business Review on pages 16 to 19.
If appropriate, interviews are on the management of financial risks may be found in held.
The performance and contribution to the Company Note 18 to the financial statements on pages 46 to 50. of each Director holding office during the year to 31 December 2009 have been considered and it has been The Board receives regular reports from the Manager concluded that in each case they have been effective and the Directors believe that, as no material and that they continue to demonstrate commitment uncertainties leading to significant doubt about to their roles.
The candidature of the Directors seeking going concern have been identified, it is appropriate election and re-election has been endorsed by the Board to continue to adopt the going concern basis in as a whole which commends their election and repreparing the financial statements.
The performance of the Chairman is evaluated by the Board in the Chairmans The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities absence on an annual basis.
The Company Secretary which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the and Portfolio Manager also participate in parts of these Company has adequate financial resources to continue processes to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The results of these evaluations are discussed by the Expenses and liabilities are relatively stable: accounting Board and the process is considered to be constructive revenue and expense forecasts are maintained and in terms of identifying areas for improving the reported to the Board regularly.
functioning and performance of the Board.
Internal control Directors remuneration The Board is responsible for the Companys systems The level of Directors fees is determined by the of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness.
whole Board, although Directors do not vote on The Board has contractually delegated to external their own fees and therefore a separate Remuneration agencies, including the Manager, the management of Committee has not been appointed.
Rather than setting the investment portfolio, the custodial services which their own remuneration levels, the Directors seek a include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration recommendation from the Manager.
This proposal takes services and the day to day accounting and company into account the responsibilities, commitment and work secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was involved for the Directors together with the levels of entered into after full and proper consideration by remuneration paid by similar companies.
Since all the Board of the quality and cost of services offered Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required including the control systems in operation in so far to comply with the principles of the Combined Code in as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
respect of executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are disclosed fully in the annual report see the The Directors review the effectiveness of the Companys Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32. systems of internal control on a regular basis.
The Levels of fees are considered to be competitive and identification, control and evaluation of risks identified sufficient to attract and retain the standard of Directors covering financial, operational and compliance matters needed to manage the Company successfully.
The limit is formulated by a series of quarterly investment on aggregate fees is governed by the Companys performance reports, internal controls reports and Articles of Association.
Shareholdings by Directors quarterly compliance reports as provided by the are encouraged and the Directors share interests Manager.
This process is in accordance with the FRCs are disclosed on page 21 of the Directors Report.
Internal control: Revised Guidance of Directors on the Combined Code, has been in place for the year ended ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT 31 December 2009, continued to be in place up to the Financial reporting date of the preparation of these financial statements and Set out on page 24 is a statement by the Directors of is expected to remain in place for the coming year.
their responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the annual report and financial statements.
The Auditor The systems of internal control are designed to manage has set out its reporting responsibilities within the and reduce rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve Independent Auditors Report on page 33. business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced and misstatement or loss.
understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to provide information required to be Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 27 Corporate Governance Statement The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives Annual General Meeting.
Mr Walther is a member of the of the Manager and receives reports on the quality and Audit Committee because the Board believes it to be effectiveness of the accounting records and management appropriate for all independent Directors to have such information maintained on behalf of the Company.
The Committee meets three times a year and considers that collectively its members have It reviews the annual and half-yearly financial statements sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to and the nature and scope and findings of the statutory discharge their responsibilities fully.
The Board carries out a risk and control authority and duties are clearly defined in its written assessment including a review of the corporate strategy terms of reference which are available on the Companys and the Managers and other third party suppliers risk pages of the Managers website.
The key element of this responsibility for reviewing the half-yearly report and assessment is the internal controls reports prepared by annual report and financial statements, reviewing the the Manager for its investment trust clients.
The internal scope and results of the audit and the effectiveness and controls report sets out the Managers control policies cost of the audit process and reviewing the Companys and procedures with respect to the management of its internal financial controls.
Whilst the Company, in common with most investment trusts, has no internal audit They also include responsibility for reviewing and function, the effectiveness of these controls is monitored monitoring the external Auditors independence and by the Managers internal audit department.
The Audit objectivity with particular regard to the provision of Committee receives and reviews the internal controls non-audit services, taking into consideration relevant report on the effectiveness of the internal controls UK professional and regulatory requirements and to maintained on behalf of the Company and an annual consider the risks associated with audit firms withdrawing compliance report from the Managers Head of from the market.
No work other than the audit was European Risk and UK Compliance.
carried out by the Companys Auditor during the year except work in relation to the Management Agreement By means of the procedures set out above, the Directors and VAT consultancy.
The Audit Committee of the Board have reviewed the effectiveness of the Managers meets the Auditor at least once a year to review these internal controls systems throughout the period.
The and other appropriate matters.
In the year to 31 Board also receives each year from the Manager a report December 2009 the Audit Committee discharged on the Managers internal controls which includes a its responsibilities by inter alia: report from the Managers reporting accountants on the control procedures in operation around the investment Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half-yearly management and administration processes.
financial statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the external Auditors report on the annual By means of the procedures set out above and in financial statements: accordance with the FRCs internal control guidance, Determining the appropriateness of the Companys the Directors have established an ongoing process for accounting policies: identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Reviewing and recommending the audit fee and risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the effectiveness of the internal control systems Companys external Auditor: throughout the year.
Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement including the appointment, Whistle-blowing procedure reappointment or removal of the Auditor as Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a appropriate: good service pursuant to the Management Agreement Evaluating the external Auditors plan for the audit includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise of the Companys financial statements: concerns through a workplace concerns escalation policy Reviewing the external Auditors quality control or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity is committed procedures: to providing the highest level of service to its customers Assessing and monitoring the effectiveness of the and to applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, external audit process and the external Auditors integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is to independence and objectivity: encourage employees and others working for Fidelity Considering the scope of work undertaken by the to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and Managers internal audit department: other malpractice within the organisation and in setting Reviewing reports on risk and internal controls and standards of ethical conduct.
This policy is endorsed reporting to the Board: accordingly.
Considering and reconfirming that it does not need an internal audit function given that the Company Audit Committee and Auditor delegates its day to day operations to third parties: The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent and Directors and is chaired by Mr van der Klugt who will be Recommending the appointment or reappointment replaced in this role by Mr Robinson following this years of the external Auditor.
Page 28 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Statement The last review of alternative audit service providers took concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders place in 2006 resulting in a change of audit firm.
The that the appointment of the Manager should continue.
Auditors continued appointment is reviewed each year Details of the Management Agreement appear on and audit partners change at least once every five years.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of Auditor.
Responsibility as institutional shareholder The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of The Committee also reviews corporate governance Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles issues, the existence and performance of all controls include the pursuit of an active investment policy operating in the Company including the adherence through portfolio management decisions, voting on to Section 842 status, the relationship with and the resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a performance of third party service providers such as continuing dialogue with the management of investee the Registrars and Custodians.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, expressly declares that it supports the Statement of Management Engagement Committee Principles drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders The Management Engagement Committee consists of Committee setting out the responsibilities of institutional all of the independent Directors and is chaired by Mr shareholders and agents.
Robert Walther who will be replaced by Mr van der Klugt following this years Annual General Meeting.
The Relations with shareholders Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the The shareholder profile of the Company is regularly performance of the Manager and ensuring that the monitored and the Board liaises with the Manager and terms of the Companys Management Agreement are the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion competitive and reasonable for shareholders.
This and communicate views to shareholders.
The Company Committee meets annually and reports to the Board of is concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for Directors, making recommendations where appropriate.
dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It The Committees terms of reference may be found on is believed that institutional shareholders have proper the Companys pages of the Managers website.
access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by the member of the Board directly they should contact the Management Engagement Committee: it relates to the Company Secretary whose details are given on pages investment management function, on which a percentage 14 and 59.
All shareholders, particularly individual of the funds under management is paid.
The management shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual fee was renegotiated to include a performance related General Meeting at which there is a presentation of the element with effect from 1 January 2007. past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet the Board and The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing representatives of the Manager.
the performance of the Manager are set out below: At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, Quality of team the skills and particularly the except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for experience of the team involved in managing all each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of aspects of the Companys business: hands.
Proxy votes are disclosed on the Companys Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust pages of the Managers website.
business generally and to the Company in particular: Managing the Company in running and controlling The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 53 the administration, the accounting and the to 57 sets out the business of the meeting and the special secretaryship of the Company: resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Investment management portfolio management Report on pages 22 and 23.
A separate resolution is skills, experience and track record and other proposed on each substantially separate issue including investment related considerations including gearing, the annual report and financial statements.
currencies, hedging, buybacks etc: Shareholders shareholder consciousness and The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the relations, discount management and commitment to Audit Committee will be available to answer questions the Companys goals: and at the Annual General Meeting.
Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice periods and duties.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days The Committee met on 14 January 2010 and reviewed before the meeting.
the performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December 2009.
The Committee noted the Companys good long term performance record and the commitment, quality and continuity of the team which was responsible for the Company.
The Committee Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 29 Corporate Governance Statement Disclosure and Transparency Rules Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules has been placed in the Directors Report on pages 19 to 22 because it is information which refers to events that have taken place during the course of the year.
The following is a list of that information: Directors shareholdings Directors and Officers liability insurance Substantial share interests Share capital Share issues Share repurchases On behalf of the Board Robert Walther 5 March 2010 Page 30 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009
