Corporate Governance Statement management company.
This affects the way investment WHAT IS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE?
trusts are governed but not the purpose of their Corporate governance, as the phrase implies, is the governance.
Given that the managers business is not process by which a board of directors of a company dedicated solely to the interests of investment trust looks after the shareholders interests and by which companies and their shareholders, the composition it enhances those interests often referred to as of investment trust boards of directors must be largely shareholder value.
Shareholders hold the directors independent of management.
However, it must have the responsible for the stewardship of a companys affairs, knowledge and experience of both fund management delegating authority to the directors to manage the and investment trust management, which the presence company on their behalf and holding them accountable of executive management on other commercial boards for its performance.
This report explains how the brings to their corporate governance.
This is vitally Directors of Fidelity Special Values PLC deal with important if an investment trust company board is to that responsibility, authority and accountability.
Most investment trust companies, including Fidelity Special Values PLC, are established, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS managed and promoted by their managers, who are Part of the London Stock Exchanges Listing Rules is therefore one of the main reasons shareholders choose the requirement for all listed companies to set out a to invest in the investment trust companys shares.
statement in their annual reports on how they comply It follows that it is an important aspect of the corporate or if not explain why not with the provisions of the governance of an investment trust company that Combined Code.
Because investment trust companies its manager should be party to the responsibility, differ in many ways from a conventional operating authority and accountability to those investing in their company, the Association of Investment Companies management.
And finally, because a board of directors has drawn up its own set of guidelines the AIC has the responsibility for maximising shareholder value in Code of Corporate Governance which meet with the long term, it is important that the directors are long the approval of the Financial Reporting Council term shareholders, thereby aligning their interests with and which form the basis of Fidelity Special Values those of the rest of the shareholders.
The Board of own compliance.
Directors of Fidelity Special Values PLC believes that these three matters are important aspects of the To add to that the Disclosure and Transparency Rules corporate governance policy of your Company.
DTR, require certain extra information be reported in the corporate governance statement.
Because FIDELITY SPECIAL VALUES PLCS CORPORATE some of it is not relevant to a charter of the general GOVERNANCE principles and practice of the Boards governance of The corporate governance of any investment trust the Company the purpose of a corporate governance company, while following the guidelines of the AIC statement, that information has been set out in detail Code of Corporate Governance, will vary in certain in the Directors Report on pages 22 to 28.
A section respects depending on its own circumstances.
The of this statement at the end, entitled Disclosure and Board of Fidelity Special Values PLC has considered its Transparency Rules, provides a list of the information own circumstances and determined its own corporate that is required and where it can be found in the governance policies and modus operandi.
is important that shareholders should be aware of them, and indeed approve of them, the Board has chosen The Board has drawn up a detailed corporate to outline them in this report.
The composition and governance schedule which is available for inspection the conduct of the Board of Directors are a material by shareholders and investors at the Companys consideration for shareholders.
Having laid out registered office, Fidelitys Investor Centre and on the Boards corporate governance policies and the website, which takes each of the detailed points in modus operandi, the Directors ask shareholders to the AICs Code of Corporate Governance and sets out communicate with them should they have concerns, exactly how the Board has chosen to respond to those criticisms or suggestions to make.
Extracts from that schedule are included in this corporate governance report.
The Directors lay particular emphasis on shareholders with such concerns attending the Companys Annual THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF AN General Meeting so that all those attending can hear INVESTMENT TRUST COMPANY those concerns expressed in open forum and make their The corporate governance of most investment trust own judgements accordingly.
Communication between companies, including Fidelity Special Values PLC, is shareholders and the Board is an important part of different from most other commercial companies in good governance: the AGM is an important part of one important respect: they do not employ their own shareholder democracy.
people as management but rather the services of a fund Page 30 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Statement Tenure, the term served by a director of a company, THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICIES is a controversial issue.
It is the belief of the Board that AND MODUS OPERANDI OF FIDELITY it can best do its job if it works as a team composed of SPECIAL VALUES PLC individuals who work well together, if each contributes In this section we have outlined the corporate to its performance.
In order to do so it believes that its governance policies and modus operandi through membership should include both directors who have the following three aspects of corporate governance: served a long time and bring both experience and past knowledge of the Company and its business to its Responsibility, Authority and Accountability governance and also include newer members who It is first of all important that shareholders have bring additional further attributes to the Companys confidence in the Board of Directors, whom they hold governance.
The Board believes that if a person responsible and accountable for the Companys affairs.
is naturally of an independent nature, then that In determining the guidelines for the composition of the independence is strengthened as length of service Board, the Directors believe that there should be a clear progresses.
The annual Board assessment, led by the majority of the Board members including the Chairman, Chairman, includes consideration of independence.
These who are independent of management, and that the policies of tenure also apply to Committee membership.
make up of the Board should bring understanding and experience of investment management, investment trust Recognising that different shareholders have management, the investment objective of the Company, different views on tenure, the Board has decided marketing, general business experience and finally of that each Director will be subject to annual re-election Fidelitys investment philosophy and its operations.
While the key determinant of independent behaviour stems from personal character, the Directors recognise The Board has designed and implemented a that any individual who is employed by or otherwise formal self-assessment process.
This focuses on the materially financially associated with the Manager, composition and performance of the Board as a whole, FIL Investments International, cannot be regarded as on its Committees and on individual contributions.
However, as already explained, the Board particular it undertakes an assessment of each Directors regards it as important that there should be one senior independent performance.
executive from FIL Investments International serving as a Director.
Other relationships or time served as a The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly Director are not regarded prima facie as compromising to discharge its duties efficiently and the table on page independent behaviour but may nevertheless be of 25 gives the attendance record for the meetings held interest to shareholders and consequently the details in the year.
and the Directors current business associations are set out on pages 18 and 19 for shareholders perusal.
Responsibility The responsibilities delegated by shareholders to the There are 21 principles which form the substance of Board of Directors include: the AICs Code of Corporate Governance.
The complete details of how your Company has adopted them are 1.
The stewardship of the affairs of the Company, which provided in its corporate governance schedule referred includes the management of risk and the monitoring to earlier.
This report contains a summary of how the of the controls at work in the Company: Board has adopted these principles.
The promotion of the Companys prosperity so as to All of the Directors are non-executive and five of the six maximise shareholder value in the long term, which have no relationship with the Manager.
Their individual includes the responsibility for the appropriateness of independence, including that of the Chairman, has been the Companys investment objective, investment considered, taking into consideration: strategy and investment performance and for the Companys efforts in seeking to minimise the levelintegrity, selflessness, intelligent scepticism and the volatility of the discount or premium at which but not cynicism, positiveness, courageousness the shares may sell in relation to the net asset value: and decisiveness: independence of mind and character: 3.
Making recommendations to shareholders for experience and knowledge of investment trusts, their consideration at annual general meetings of the investment business generally and of Fidelity: on matters not delegated to the Board of Directors, financial literacy: which include the approval of the annual financialconflicts of interest: and statements, the election and re-election of Directorsperformance as a Director.
and the appointment of the Auditor.
Based on the above considerations all five non-Fidelity Directors, including the Chairman, have been assessed and are considered to be independent.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 31 Corporate Governance Statement The Board believes that a good working relationship they also have responsibility for reviewing and comes from Board and management working monitoring the external Auditors independence and harmoniously together: in particular the Board should objectivity with particular regard to the provision of support the Manager in difficult times but challenge it non-audit services, taking in consideration relevant when necessary: it is a sine qua non to good performance.
UK professional and regulatory requirements.
Authority The Auditors appointment is reviewed each year and The Board of Directors is furnished by the shareholders the audit partners change at least once every five years.
with the authority to manage the Company on their The last review of alternative audit service providers behalf, being required to discharge the responsibilities took place in 2006 resulting in a change in audit firm.
The Board, being wholly non-executive There are no contractual obligations that restrict the and by majority independent of management, carries Committees choice of Auditor.
The Committee meets out its duties through the mechanism of Board meetings with the independent Auditor at least once a year to and Board Committee meetings.
The most important review all these matters.
The Committee itself meets at aspect of the Directors duties concerns the least three times a year and reports to the Board of management of the Companys portfolio of assets Directors, making recommendations where appropriate.
and of the risk profile of its balance sheet.
While the day to day investment management is delegated to FIL Given the nature of investment trust companies and Investments International, there are certain decisions their small boards, it is important that the Chairman of which are retained and made by the Directors, including the Board should be a member of the Audit Committee the payment of dividends, the share buyback guidelines but not its Chairman.
This is both so that the skills and and the gearing policy.
experience of the Chairman of the Board are brought into the Audit Committee and also to avoid duplication, In structuring the Board meetings, the Directors try to in particular of the review of the half-yearly and annual concentrate as much as possible of their regular Board reports and financial statements.
The continued increase meetings on i investment matters including strategy, in the scope and in the technical nature of the work of gearing policy, investment policy, portfolio and stock the Committee means that its Chairman must have reviews, portfolio turnover, monitoring performance etc and does have recent and relevant financial experience.
and ii shareholder value matters including monitoring the discount, share buybacks and Fidelitys Investment The Management Engagement Committee Trust Share Plan and ISA marketing.
The contents of the The Management Engagement Committee consists Board meeting papers are determined by the Board of all of the independent Directors and is charged itself and contain sufficient information on the financial with reviewing and monitoring the performance of the condition of the Company.
Key representatives of Manager in respect of its contract and the fees it is paid.
the Manager attend each Board meeting enabling the This Committee meets at least once a year and reports Board to probe further on matters of concern or seek to the Board of Directors, making recommendations clarification on certain issues.
The Board meets at least where appropriate.
once a year with the Companys investment bankers to discuss shareholder value and investor relation issues The level of remuneration of the Manager is determined while the Manager meets with the larger shareholders at by the Management Engagement Committee: the fee least once a year and reports back to the Board on those relates to the investment management function, on meetings.
Because the Board of Directors is concerned which a percentage of funds under management is that the bureaucratic burden of corporate governance paid thereby relating this part of its remuneration to procedure tends to crowd out investment and performance and a set fee to the administrative function.
shareholder value matters at Board meetings, it has The Board of Directors is mindful that the amounts paid decided to discharge as much as possible of its corporate to the Manager should be sufficient to ensure that both governance responsibilities through three Committees: the Portfolio Manager and the administrators within the management house appointed to the job of looking after The Audit Committee its affairs are highly skilled and that those individuals The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent should be largely focused on the Companys business.
Directors and is charged with reviewing and monitoring The non-executive independent Directors, constituted as the production of the annual and half-yearly financial the Management Engagement Committee, meet alone statements, the audit process, corporate governance to consider any issues that they consider to be relevant.
issues, the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Company including the adherence The criteria which are taken into consideration in to Section 842 status, the relationship with and reviewing the performance of the Manager are set performance of other third party service providers such out below.
as the Registrars or the Custodian, considering the risks associated with audit firms withdrawing from the marketQuality of team the skills and particularly the and the relationship with the independent Auditor and experience of the team involved in managing all their ongoing appointment and level of fees.
Finally aspects of the Companys business: Page 32 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Statement Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust Each Committee has written terms of reference business generally and to the Company in particular: which are available for inspection at the Companys Managing the Company in running and controlling registered office and on the Companys pages of the the administration, the accounting and the Managers website.
secretaryship of the Company: Investment management portfolio management Accountability skills, experience and track record and other Given that the shareholders entrust the Board of investment related considerations including gearing, Directors with the management of the Companys currencies, hedging, share buybacks etc: affairs, it is necessary that the Board accounts for itself Shareholders shareholder consciousness and to shareholders.
The process of accountability involves relations, discount management and commitment providing all the necessary information for shareholders to the Companys goals: and to make judgements about the Boards stewardship Management Agreement consideration of fees, and performance through a full and informative annual notice periods and duties.
financial report, a half-yearly financial report, interim management statements, accessibility to the Board at The Nomination and Remuneration Committee any time through the office of the Chairman and finally The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, chaired the presentation of the results the financial statements by the Chairman of the Board, consists of all of the and future prospects at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors and is charged with nominating new directors The Annual General Meeting is the pivotal point in the for consideration by the Board of Directors, in turn for relationship between the Board of Directors and approval by the shareholders.
It believes that the best shareholders and is the occasion when the Board way of ensuring that the Board as a whole and each accounts for itself in public meeting.
It regards any independent Director individually carry out their duties bona fide issue that any shareholder raises as one in an independent manner, irrespective of the interests that should be put to all shareholders at the Annual of the Manager, is to ensure that the search for, the General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting provides interview of and recommendation to the Board of a shareholders with an opportunity to vote on certain issues candidate is controlled by the independent Directors, that are not ultimately delegated to the Board of who in turn form the majority of this Committee.
This includes the re-election of Directors every year.
In addition to the normal matters of approving the The Nomination and Remuneration Committee financial statements, the election and re-election of also considers the reappointment of Directors.
The Directors, the appointment of the independent Auditor, Committee concerns itself with the remuneration of the issue of new shares and the buyback of shares for the Directors, considering as it does the remit of the job cancellation.
Your Board has an established policy that it and the responsibility and time involved.
It also makes should enable shareholders to decide on whether they itself aware of the directors fees of other investment wish to continue the Companys existence by putting a trust companies and other comparable entities.
continuation vote before the shareholders at every third AGM.
The next such vote will be at the annual When the Board looks for a new Director it looks general meeting to be held in 2010, the last being at for those criteria outlined above.
Because personal the AGM held on 13 December 2007. attributes are difficult to assess, the Board relies heavily on third party experience and endorsement of the INTERNAL CONTROL individual concerned.
After consideration of the The Board is responsible for the Companys system attributes considered necessary for the appointment of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The of a new Director, members of the Committee Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, recommend a number of candidates for consideration as including the Manager FIL Investments International, the a Director of the Company.
In the event that insufficient management of the investment portfolio, the custodial suitable candidates are identified, a consultant services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the would be used.
Each candidate is considered by the registration services and the day to day accounting and Committee and a shortlist is drawn up for interview.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the The Committee meets on an annual basis and as Board of the quality and cost of services offered including and when required, making recommendations where the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to appropriate.
the affairs of the Company.
The level of remuneration of the non-executive The Board has established a continuing process for Directors is set by the Nomination and Remuneration the identification, control and evaluation of risk through Committee.
The non-executive Directors remuneration a series of quarterly investment performance reports, is fixed as a rate for the role and or the roles undertaken.
a semi-annual internal controls report and quarterly The Director from FIL Investments International waives compliance reports which are provided by the Manager.
This process, which is in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 33 Corporate Governance Statement for Directors on the Combined Code, has been in place DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES for the year ended 31 August 2009 and up to the date of As already stated in the second section of this the approval of the annual report and financial statements.
Corporate Government Statement entitled CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS, certain The systems of internal control are designed to reduce extra information is required to be given.
Because some rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business of it is information which refers to events that have taken objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not place during the course of the year, it has been placed absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
in the DIRECTORS REPORT along with other information that also relates to information concerning The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives events that have taken place during the course of the of the Manager and receives reports on Section 842 year.
The following is a list of that information: status, the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on Information concerning the service of the Directors behalf of the Company.
on the Board and changes to the Companys Articles of Association The Audit Committee receives and reviews the internal Attendance at Board and Committee meetings controls report, the annual and half-yearly financial Directors shareholdings reports and the nature, scope and findings of the Directors and Officers liability insurance statutory audit.
The Board carries out a risk and control Substantial share interests assessment including a review of the corporate strategy Share capital and the Managers and other third party suppliers risk Share issues management processes.
The key element of this Share repurchases assessment is the semi-annual internal controls report prepared by the Manager for its investment trust clients.
It can be found on pages 24 to 26.
The internal controls report sets out the Managers control policies and procedures with respect to the On behalf of the Board management of its clients investments.
Whilst the Company, in common with most investment trusts, has no internal audit department, the effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the Managers internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the internal controls report on the effectiveness Alex Hammond-Chambers of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the 3 November 2009 Company and an annual compliance report from the Managers Head of European Risk and UK Compliance.
Page 34 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009
