214665 Finsbury WWP pp24-pp28 6 15 09 1:26 PM Page 26 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 26 Corporate Governance continued MEETING ATTENDANCE The number of meetings held during the year of the Board and its Committees, and each Directors attendance level, is shown below: Audit Nominations Remuneration Type and number of meetings Board Committee Committee Committee held in 2008 9 5 2 1 1 Martin Smith 5 N A 1 1 Ian Ivory 2 N A N A N A Josephine Dixon 5211 Paul Gaunt 4 N A 1 1 Professor Duncan Geddes 5210 Dr David Holbrook 5211 Samuel D Isaly 5 N A 1 1 Anthony Townsend 5211 Retired from the Board on 23 July 2008.
All of the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting held on 23 July 2008. the regulatory environment in which the Company, Manager NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE and Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external The Nominations Committee is responsible for the Board Auditors also attend meetings of this Committee at its request appraisal process and for making recommendations to the and report on their work procedures and their findings in Board on the appointment of new Directors.
Where relation to the Companys statutory audit.
They also have the appropriate, each Director is invited to submit nominations opportunity to meet with the Committee without and external advisers may be used to identify potential representatives of the Manager or the Investment Manager candidates.
The Audit Committee reviews the need for non-audit services and authorises such on a case by case basis, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE having consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services The level of Directors fees is reviewed on a regular basis and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors.
relative to other comparable investment companies and in the Non-audit fees of 4,000 were paid to Ernst & Young LLP light of Directors responsibilities.
Neither the Chairman nor during the year for their review of the Companys options individual Directors participate in discussions involving strategy.
The Board has concluded, on the recommendation of personal remuneration.
Details of the fees paid to the Directors the Audit Committee, that the Auditors continued to be in the year under review are detailed in the Directors independent and that their reappointment be proposed at the Remuneration Report on pages 29 and 30.
AUDIT COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROLS The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to responsible for the review of the interim and annual financial review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal statements, the nature and scope of the external audit and the control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
findings therefrom and the terms of appointment of the This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has Auditors, including their remuneration and the provision of any identified as including business, financial, operational, non-audit services by them.
This accords with the The Audit Committee meets representatives of the Manager guidance contained in the Turnbull Report published in 1999 and Investment Manager and their Compliance Officers who and revised in 2005. report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with
