Corporate Governance Statement Introduction The Board held an Away-Day meeting in December The Board has considered the principles set out 2009 to consider strategic issues and also met in in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance closed session on three occasions during the year, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June without any representation from the Manager.
All the 2008 the Combined Code and the AIC Code Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
of Corporate Governance the AIC Code.
The Directors attendance Board believes that during the period under review Audit Nomination the Company has complied with the provisions of Board Committee Committee the Combined Code, in so far as they relate to the No.
The Board is also adhering M A Loveday 10 n a 5 to the principles and recommendations of the R Bone 10 n a n a AIC Code.
M W Bunbury 10 5 5 S Burley 10 5 n a The Board D Clementi 10 n a 4 The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship 1 of the Companys affairs and has reviewed the R J Gould 10 4 n a schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which C A Keljik 10 5 n a 2 are categorised under various headings, including S J Fraser 4 0 0 strategy, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, M C B Ward 10 n a 5 performance, marketing, appointments, the 1 Retired as a Director on 27 January 2010.
2 Appointed as a Director on 22 September 2009.
It has responsibility for all corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, share buyback policy and corporate governance The Board aims to maintain a balance of skills, matters which are all reviewed regularly.
In order experience, diversity, age and length of service to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, through succession planning.
A nine year limit is all Directors have full and timely access to relevant imposed on tenure to be served by new Directors, information.
At each meeting the Board reviews the only to be exceeded for phasing and continuity Companys investment performance and considers purposes where experience can add to the strength financial analyses and other reports of an operational of the Board, or in exceptional circumstances.
The Board monitors compliance with the order to review the effectiveness of the Board, Companys objectives and is responsible for setting the Committees and the individual Directors, the asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within Chairman completed a thorough appraisal process which the Fund Manager has discretion to act, and in early January 2010 in respect of the year under thus supervises the management of the investment review.
This encompassed both quantitative and portfolio which is contractually delegated to the qualitative measures of performance in respect of Manager.
The Board has the right of veto over the the Board and the Committees implemented by appointment of sub-managers recommended by the way of an evaluation survey, a questionnaire and Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the interviews with the Chairman.
The Fund Manager approval of private equity and unlisted investments and the Company Secretary also participated in this and all investments in in-house funds managed or part of the process to provide all-round feedback to advised by the Manager.
With regard to individual Directors, the The following table sets out the number of performance appraisal was qualitative, implemented Directors meetings including committee meetings by way of a questionnaire and an appraisal meeting held and attended during the year under review.
The appraisal of the Chairman follows the same process and is carried out, in Investors in New Zealand should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may his absence, by the Board as a whole under the differ from those of the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
The Governance Best Practice Code.
32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
