Corporate Governance Statement In this section of our Annual Report and Accounts, we explain the key elements of the Group's corporate governance structure.
The directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc are committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of compliance with the Directors 1.
In November 2007 Mr Hargreaves provided a personal loan on commercial Combined Code Board of directors terms to Mr Davis to assist with his purchase During the year ended 30 June 2009, As at 30 June 2009, the Board of of an investment in Agrifirma Limited.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc has applied the Hargreaves Lansdown comprised of The US$417,000 210,000 loan was principles and complied with the provisions 3 executive members and 3 independent provided prior to Mr Davis being of Section 1 of the Combined Code on non-executive directors.
All of the directors appointed to the Board.
The loan was Corporate Governance the Code with the bring strong judgement to Board repaid in June 2009.
The Board has taken exception of Independence of the Chairman deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient advice from the Companys lawyers and on appointment:- size and diversity that the balance of skills on review considers that under the and experience is considered to be provisions of the Combined Code the loan The Chairman does not meet the independence appropriate for the requirements of constituted a relationship or circumstance criteria set out in the Code since he is an the business.
which could have appeared to affect Mr executive director of the Company.
The Davis's judgment and should have been Board considers that departure from the The Chairman has primary responsibility for disclosed as such in the 2008 Annual Report.
Combined Code in this area is appropriate running the Board.
The Chief Executive, and gave its reasons for non-compliance both Peter Hargreaves, has executive The Board considers Mr Davis to be in the prospectus published as part of the responsibilities for the operations, results independent in character and judgement.
Companys Initial Public Offering, and in and strategic development of the Group.
He provides a robust and effective subsequent Annual Reports.
In his Clear divisions of accountability and challenge to management, contributes Chairmans statement, Stephen Lansdown responsibility exist and operate effectively effectively to Board debate and has has provided details of the proposed changes for these positions.
proved himself willing to defend his to his role and the agreement of the Board to viewpoint for the overall good of the recommend Michael Evans for appointment The Board requires all non-executive Group.
The Board and Committee as non-executive Chairman with effect from directors to be independent in their debates and decisions reached since his 1 December 2009, following which the judgement and free from any business or appointment have been reviewed and the Group will be in compliance with this other relationship that could interfere with Board is satisfied that no situation has provision of the Code.
the exercise of objective judgement.
The arisen throughout the period which could non-executive directors do not participate in have been affected by any perceived The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, are any of the Groups share option or other conflict of interest.
required to review whether the above incentive schemes.
statement reflects the Companys compliance 2.
Mr Davis is a director of Agrifirma with the nine provisions of the Combined The Board uses its judgement to determine Services Limited, a former UK subsidiary Code specified for its review by the Listing if a non-executive director is independent of of Agrifirma Limited, which following a Rules and to report if it does not reflect such management and whether any business or restructuring in May 2009 has been compliance.
No such report has been made.
other relationship exists which could acquired by Agrifirma Brazil Limited.
He materially interfere with the exercise of is also a part time consultant to and Details of how Hargreaves Lansdown objective, unfettered or independent shareholder in Agrifirma Brazil Limited.
complied with the Code are summarised in judgement by the non-executive director or Mr Hargreaves also holds investments in this statement.
otherwise affect the non-executive directors Agrifirma Limited and Agrifirma Brazil ability to act in the best interests of the Limited.
The Company itself has no Statement about applying the Group.
In doing so, the Board gives due dealings with Agrifirma Limited or regard to provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Agrifirma Brazil Limited.
The Board has principles of the Code Code.
reviewed this arrangement and concluded The Company has applied the principles set that as the shareholding of each director out in section 1 of the Code, including both The Board concludes that Mr Evans and Mr is of a minority level, the common the main principles and the supporting Bloomer were independent directors shareholding does not interfere with Mr principles, by complying with the Code as throughout the financial year.
Further explanation of how has considered the relationships explained the principles and supporting principles have below, and is also satisfied that Mr Davis has Biographies for the Board of directors, been applied is set out below and in the been an independent director under the including details of any other significant directors remuneration report and Audit terms of the Combined Code since his directorships or appointments, are set out on Committee report.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 22 Corporate Governance Statement Role of the Board Reference that have been approved by the Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis.
The The Board determines the strategic direction Board, and performance of the Committees responsibilities of the Remuneration of the Group and reviews operating, financial are assessed annually by the Board.
Terms of Committee and an explanation of how it and risk performance.
It is the decisionreference of the Audit, Remuneration and applies the directors remuneration principles making body for all other matters deemed Nomination Committee are available on the of the Combined Code, are set out in the material to the Group in strategic, financial Groups website www.
The non-executive Details are set out below: directors constructively challenge the The Nomination Committee management team and supplement the Audit Committee The Nomination Committee leads the executive directors' management expertise The Audit Committee is responsible for process for Board appointments, re-election with a diversity of business skills and assisting the Board in discharging its and succession of directors and the experience.
responsibilities for financial reporting Chairman.
It is responsible for making including the integrity of the annual and recommendations to the Board concerning The Board and its Committees meet interim reports, preliminary results and any the composition of the Board including regularly.
Formal minutes or reports of each other formal announcements relating to proposed appointees to the Board, whether of these meetings are circulated to all financial performance, risk reporting and to fill any vacancies that may arise or to directors.
reviewing the Companys internal corporate change the number of Board members.
The Audit Committees primary The Board has delegated full authority to the responsibilities are to review the financial The Committee is chaired by Jonathan Executive Committee except for a list of statements, to review the Groups internal Bloomer and its members at 30 June 2009 matters which are reserved for decision by the control and risk management systems, to were Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis.
There is a formal schedule of those consider the appointment of the external The Company Secretary may also attend in matters reserved to the Board, which auditors, their independence and reports to his capacity as Secretary of the Company.
includes: the Committee, as well as to review the The Nomination Committee meets at least programme of Internal Audit.
The Committee met five approval of corporate strategies and times during the year.
objectives: The responsibilities of the Audit Committee approval of interim and final financial and an explanation of how it applies the There is a formal, rigorous and transparent results and payment of dividends: principles of the Combined Code, are set out procedure for the appointment of new the appointment of directors: in the audit committee report.
This process will approval of major capital or revenue involve the Nomination Committee expenditure: The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan interviewing suitable candidates who are approval of forecasts and medium term Bloomer and its other members at 30 June proposed by either existing Board members plans: 2009 were Michael Evans and Jonathan or by an external search company.
Careful approval of significant changes in the Davis.
The Audit Committee meets at least consideration will be given to ensure Group structure and product range: three times each year but more frequently appointees have enough time available to corporate governance matters.
when required, and met four times during devote to the role and that the balance of this financial year.
On each occasion the skills, knowledge and experience on the The Board has delegated the day-to-day Head of Internal Audit, Group Compliance Board will be maintained.
When the management of the Group to the Group Director and Group Finance Director were Committee has found a suitable candidate, Chief Executive, who is supported by the invited to attend.
The external auditors the Chairman of the Committee will make a executive directors and senior executives.
The attended all of the meetings.
proposal to the whole Board and the Group Chief Executive and executive appointment is the responsibility of the whole directors of the Group are responsible to the Remuneration Committee Board following recommendation from the Board for developing strategy and the The Remuneration Committee is responsible Committee.
profitability and overall performance of the for the framework or broad policy for the fair Group.
remuneration of the Executive Directors of All directors have to submit themselves for the Group as well as their performance re-election at least every three years if they Board responsibilities management.
These will be determined with wish to continue serving and are considered The Board meets a minimum of four times due regard to the interests of the Company by the Board to be eligible.
At the 2009 each financial year to discuss matters such as and the Shareholders.
It monitors the levels Annual General Meeting, Tracey Taylor current performance, long term planning, and structure of remuneration for senior offers herself for election, and both Jonathan material capital commitments and risk management and seeks to ensure that they Bloomer and Michael Evans offer themselves management.
During the intervening are designed to attract, retain and motivate for re-election.
months, meetings of the Executive the Executive Directors needed to run the Committee are held and minutes from the Company successfully.
The Nomination Committee has determined meetings are circulated to the Board.
that Michael Evans has excellent skills to fulfil The Remuneration Committee meets at least the position of Chairman of the Board when, Board committees twice during each financial year, and met four as discussed in the Chairmans statement, There are a number of Committees of the times during the current year.
The Stephen Lansdown steps down as Chairman.
Board to which various matters are delegated.
Committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer The Board believes that his skills and The Committees all have formal Terms of and its other members at 30 June 2009 were experience and knowledge of the Group have 23 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 Corporate Governance Statement proven to be invaluable and have positioned Committee is responsible to the Chief Executive his absence, and also comprises Tracey him as the ideal candidate for the role.
As for developing and monitoring every aspect Taylor, Nigel Bence, Andrew Christian, Lee such, it was not necessary to use an external of the Group businesses on a continuing Gardhouse, Theresa Barry and Alex Davies.
search consultancy or open advertising for basis, for developing and implementing Martin Mulligan was a member of the recruitment of a Chairman.
business strategy as agreed by the Board and Committee until November 2008. ensuring that day to day operations are Executive Committee conducted in accordance with the relevant The Executive Committee meets at least The Board has delegated full authority to the regulatory and statutory requirements.
quarterly but more frequently when required, Executive Committee subject to a list of and met four times during the current matters which are reserved for decision by the The Executive Committee is chaired by financial year.
In particular the Executive Stephen Lansdown, and Peter Hargreaves in Attendance at meetings during the financial year by members of each committee Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Directors Peter Hargreaves 4 4 - - - 4 4 Stephen Lansdown 4 4 - - - 3 4 Tracey Taylor 3 3 - - - 3 4 Martin Mulligan 1 1 - - - 1 2 Jonathan Bloomer 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 - Michael Evans 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 - Jonathan Davis 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 - Executive Committee Theresa Barry ---- 4 4 Nigel Bence ---- 4 4 Andrew Christian ---- 4 4 Lee Gardhouse ---- 4 4 Alex Davies ---- 4 4 Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice.
Training Performance evaluation Relations with shareholders The Groups overall objective is to maintain Individual appraisal of each directors and enhance professional standards for all its performance is undertaken either by the Shareholder relations employees.
It is particularly necessary to Chief Executive or Chairman each year and The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders maintain these standards for all staff who fall involves meetings with each director on a under the scope of the Financial Services one-to one basis.
The non-executive and has a programme of communication Authority Training and Competence rules.
directors, led by the senior independent with shareholders through interim and All directors and staff under the scope of director, carry out an appraisal of the annual reports, the AGM and the Investor these rules are required to perform certain performance of the Chairman.
Relations section of the corporate website at www.
Other information For all new directors, the Chairman is Any director has access to the advice and It is intended that all directors will attend responsible for preparing and implementing a services of the Company Secretary and may each AGM and shareholders will be given the personalised induction programme including seek independent professional advice, if opportunity to participate by asking questions at the AGM on 27 November guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and necessary, at the Companys expense.
The liabilities as a director of the Company.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the 2009.
In addition, the Chairman, Chief induction process can include time with several Board for ensuring Board procedures are Executive and Group Finance Director of the senior managers and executives in a followed.
Any removal or appointment of welcome dialogue with individual number of business areas, demonstrations of the Company Secretary is decided by the institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views systems where relevant and visits to the offices.
which can be fed back to the Board.
Every director has access to appropriate All directors may take independent General presentations are also given to training as required subsequent to professional advice at the Companys expense analysts and investors covering the annual appointment.
The need for director training in conducting their duties.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 24 Corporate Governance Statement Accountability and audit financial and business performance: Guidance for directors on the Combined an Internal Audit function which reports Code.
Going concern to the Audit Committee on the The financial statements are prepared on a effectiveness of key internal controls in The Board receives minutes and reports from going concern basis as the directors are relation to these major risks: the Chairman of the Audit Committee and satisfied that, at the time of approving thea Compliance function to manage the Executive Committee.
These identify any financial statements, the Group has the relationships with the Group's key significant issues relating to the adequacy of resources to continue in business for the regulators and to identify major the Group's system of internal control and to foreseeable future.
compliance and regulatory risks: the risk management policies and procedures a Money Laundering Reporting Officer across the full range of risks to which the Internal control and risk management and anti-money laundering procedures, Group is exposed, and how they are being The Board has overall responsibility for the and controls including training controlled.
The Board, the Executive Companys system of internal control and programmes for all staff: Committee and the Audit Committee receive risk management and for reviewing itsa risk manager who specifically considers reports from the Head of Internal Audit effectiveness.
The directors are required to the potential exposure of the Group to identifying the effectiveness of internal establish systems for the control of the loss through financial crime and the controls together with specific reports on any conduct of the business and to conduct the controls in place to mitigate the risk of major issues.
business with prudence and integrity.
In such loss: and discharging this responsibility, the Boarda Group Risk Strategy requiring all senior The majority of the activities of the Group, confirms that it has established the managers to identify major risks and including the systems of business control, are procedures necessary to apply the Code, monitor the effectiveness of internal subject to supervision by the Financial including clear operating procedures, lines of controls applied throughout the business.
The Group is required on responsibility and delegated authority.
These The Group's Internal Audit Department a regular basis to submit detailed prudential procedures have been in place throughout carries out reviews of the effectiveness of and statistical returns covering all areas of its the year and are regularly reviewed by the internal controls operated by each business and meets regularly with its Board.
Business performance is managed department or business unit as part of the supervisors, conducting the relationship in an closely and the Board and Management has audit of that department or unit.
established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to In addition, the Audit Committee receives Through the monitoring processes set out monitor: reports from the Head of Internal Audit on above, the Board has conducted a review of the work carried out under the annual the effectiveness of the system of internal progress towards strategic objectives: internal audit plan, and also reports from the control during the year ended 30 June 2009. financial performance, within a external auditors.
The system of internal control is designed to framework including forecasting, manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of financial reporting, reviewing variances The Board has delegated oversight of the failure to achieve business objectives and against plan and taking appropriate Group's Internal Control Policy to the Audit provide reasonable assurance as to the management action: and Committee.
The Audit Committee received effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the risk management processes, which accord reports on the current operation of internal business against the risk of material error, loss with the Turnbull guidance and are controls in relation to key and emerging risks, or fraud.
In that context, the review, in the supported by reports from the Head of and the Audit Committee carried out an opinion of the Board, did not indicate that Internal Audit that the significant risks overall review of the effectiveness of the the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory faced by the Company are being Group's system of internal control for the and the Board is not aware of any change to identified, evaluated and appropriately year to 30 June 2009 and the period to the this status up to the approval of this Annual managed, having regard to the balance of date of this report, on behalf of the Board.
The Board has delegated oversight of the Model Code The key features of the system of business Groups risk management policies and The Company has its own internal dealing control and risk assessment established by the procedures to the Audit Committee.
rules which extend the FSA Listing Rules Board include: Enhancements to the process used for Model Code provisions to all employees.
identifying, evaluating and managing the a well defined management structure significant risks faced by the Group were Audit Committee and auditors with clear accountabilities and introduced in early 2009.
A Risk CoThe Audit Committee report on the delegations: ordinator has been appointed to draw all the following pages provides details of the role the Group Audit Committee, the Executive registers together and report to the directors and activities of the Committee and its Committee, and a system of executive risk and non-executive directors on a quarterly relationship with the internal and external managers, which enhance and support basis, for their review and feedback.
the oversight role of the Board: summary of the significant risks is provided management information systems which within the Operating and Financial Review.
Stephen Lansdown enable the Board to receive This process is regularly reviewed by the Chairman comprehensive monthly analysis of Board and accords with the Turnbull 22 September 2009 25 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
