Audit Committee Report Summary of the role of the Membership of the Committee is reviewed Meetings by the Chairman of the Committee at regular Audit Committee intervals and any recommendations for new The Audit Committee is required to meet at The Audit Committee is appointed by the appointments are made to the Nomination least three times per year and has an agenda Board.
The Audit Committees terms of Committee for onward recommendation to linked to events in the Groups financial reference include all matters indicated by the the Board.
Appointments are for a period of calendar.
The agenda is predominantly Combined Code.
The terms of reference are three years and are extendable by no more cyclical and is therefore approved by the considered annually by the Audit Committee than two additional three year periods.
The Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Committee comprises three independent or her fellow members.
Two members Committee member has the right to require The Audit Committee is responsible for: constitute a quorum.
reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
monitoring the integrity of the financial The Audit Committee structure requires the statements of the Group and any formal inclusion of one financially qualified member The Audit Committee invites the Group announcements relating to the Groups as recognised by the Consultative Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group financial performance and reviewing Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit, significant financial reporting judgements Currently the Audit Committee Chairman Group Compliance Director and senior contained therein: fulfils this requirement.
All Audit Committee representatives of the external auditors to reviewing the Groups internal financial members are expected to be financially attend all of its meetings in full, although it controls and, unless expressly addressed literate.
reserves the right to request any of these by the Board itself, the Groups internal individuals to withdraw.
Other senior control and risk management systems: The Group provides an induction management are invited to present such monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness programme for new Audit Committee reports as are required for the Committee to of the Groups internal audit function: members and ongoing training to enable all discharge its duties.
making recommendations to the Board, of the Committee members to carry out their for a resolution to be put to the duties.
The induction programme covers the Overview of the actions taken by shareholders for their approval in general role of the Audit Committee, its terms of the Audit Committee to discharge meetings, in relation to the appointment reference and expected time commitment by its duties of the external auditors and the approval members: and an overview of the Groups of the remuneration and terms of business, including the main business and Since 1 July 2008 the Audit Committee has: engagement of the external auditors: financial dynamics and risks.
New reviewing and monitoring the external Committee members also meet some of thereviewed the financial statements in the auditors independence and objectivity Groups staff.
Ongoing training includes 2008 reports and accounts and the and the effectiveness of the audit process, attendance at formal conferences, internal interim report issued in February 2009. taking into consideration relevant UK company seminars and briefings by external As part of this review the Committee professional and regulatory requirements: advisors.
received a report from the external and auditors on their audit of the annual developing and implementing a policy on The Board expects the Audit Committee reports and accounts and review of the the engagement of the external auditors members to have an understanding of: interim report: to supply non-audit services, taking intoconsidered the output from the Groupaccount relevant guidance regarding thethe principles of, contents of, and wide process used to identify, evaluate provision of non-audit services by the developments in financial reporting and mitigate risks: external audit firm.
including the applicable accountingreviewed the effectiveness of the Groups standards and statements of internal controls and disclosures made in The Audit Committee is required to report recommended practice: the annual report and accounts on this its findings to the Board, identifying anykey aspects of the Groups operations matter: matters in respect of which it considers that including corporate policies, Groupreviewed and agreed the scope of the action or improvement is needed, and make financing, products and systems of audit work to be undertaken by the recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
internal control: auditors: matters that influence or distort theconsidered a report from the external Composition presentation of accounts and key figures: auditors on their observations of controls the principles of, and developments in, across the Group: The members of the Audit Committee are: company law, sector-specific laws andagreed the fees to be paid to the external other relevant corporate legislation: auditors for their audit of the 2009 Date of the role of internal and external auditing accounts and interim report: Name appointment Qualification and risk management:reviewed its own effectiveness: the regulatory framework for the Groupsundertaken an evaluation of the J Bloomer 18 Sept 2006 Chartered businesses: and performance of the Internal Audit  and social responsibility function: M Evans 1 Sept 2006 Actuary best practices.
agreed a programme of work for the J Davis 1 Feb 2008 Companys Internal Audit function: Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 26 Audit Committee Report undertaken an evaluation of thethe confirmation that no external auditInternal Audits plans and its achievement performance of the external auditors: staff are employed by the Group: of the planned activity: received reports from the Head ofa report from the external auditorsthe results of key audits and other Internal Audit on the work undertaken describing their arrangements to identify, significant findings, the adequacy of by Internal Audit and management report and manage any conflicts of managements response and the responses to proposals made in the audit interest: and timeliness of resolution: reports issued by the function during thethe overall extent of non-audit servicesthe statistics on staff numbers, year: and provided by the external auditors, in qualifications and experience and received presentations on the Groups addition to their case by case approval of timeliness of reporting: and treasury and tax functions.
the position of non-audit services by thethe level and nature of non-audit activity external auditors.
External auditors To assess the effectiveness of the external The Groups Whistleblowing Policy contains The Audit Committee is responsible for the auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: arrangements for the Head of Internal Audit development, implementation and to receive, in confidence, complaints on monitoring of the Groups policy on externalthe external auditors fulfilment of the accounting, risk issues, internal controls, audit.
The policy assigns oversight agreed audit plan and variations from the auditing issues and related matters for responsibility for monitoring the plan: reporting to the Audit Committee as independence, objectivity and compliancethe robustness and perceptiveness of the appropriate.
with ethical and regulatory requirements to auditors in their handling of the key the Audit Committee, and day to day accounting and audit judgements: and Overview responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
the content of a report from the external The policy states that the external auditors auditors on their observations of controls As a result of its work during the year, the are jointly responsible to the Board and the across the Group.
Audit Committee has concluded that it has Audit Committee and that the Audit acted in accordance with its terms of Committee is the primary contact.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the reference and has ensured the independence results of the activities outlined above, the and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out Audit Committee has recommended to the the categories of non-audit services which the Board that the external auditors are reThe Chairman of the Audit Committee will external auditors will and will not be allowed appointed.
be available at the Annual General Meeting to provide to the Group, subject to fide to answer any questions about the work of minimis levels and Audit Committee Internal Audit function the Committee.
The Audit Committee is required to assist the Approval To fulfil its responsibility regarding the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to independence of the external auditors, the the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of This report was approved by the Audit Audit Committee reviewed: the Internal Audit department.
To fulfil Committee and signed on its behalf by: these duties, the Committee reviewed: the changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors plan for the currentInternal Audits terms of reference, year: reporting lines and access to the Audit Michael Evans the arrangements for day to day Committee and all members of the Member of the Audit Committee management of the audit relationship: Board: 22 September 2009 27 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
