HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board Corporate governance codes Financial Officer, Executive Director, Risk and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Regulation or other executives has failed to resolve Governance issued by the Financial Reporting or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Council and the Code on Corporate Governance Invitations to meet S M Robertson prior to his Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the appointment as senior independent non-executive Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Director were extended to the Groups largest Hong Kong Limited.
The Combined Code on shareholders.
The senior independent non-executive Corporate Governance is available at Director may be contacted through the Group www.
uk and the Code on Corporate Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London Governance Practices is available at E14 5HQ.
The Board of HSBC Holdings has adopted a Conflicts of interest, indemnification of code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Directors, relevant audit information and securities by Directors.
The code of conduct contracts of significance complies with The Model Code in the Listing Rules The Board has authority to approve Directors of the FSA and with The Model Code for Securities conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and has Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers Hong adopted a policy and procedures for the Kong Model Code set out in the Rules Governing determination of terms of authorisation for such the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of situations.
The Boards powers to authorise conflicts Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange are operating effectively and the procedures are of Hong Kong Limited has granted certain waivers being followed.
A review of situational conflicts from strict compliance with the Hong Kong Model which have been authorised and the terms of Code.
The waivers granted by The Stock Exchange authorisation is undertaken by the Board annually.
of Hong Kong Limited primarily take into account accepted practices in the UK, particularly in respect The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings of employee share plans.
Following a specific provide that Directors are entitled to be indemnified enquiry, each Director has confirmed he or she has out of the assets of the Company against claims from complied with the code of conduct for transactions in third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising in HSBC Group securities throughout the year.
connection with the performance of their functions pursuant to the provisions of the UK Companies Act Differences in HSBC Holdings New York 2006.
Such indemnity provisions have been in place Stock Exchange corporate governance during the financial year but have not been utilised practices by the Directors.
Under the NYSEs corporate governance rules for Each person who is a Director at the date of listed companies and the applicable rules of the SEC, approval of this report confirms that so far as the as a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, HSBC Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Holdings must disclose any significant ways in information of which the Companys auditor is which its corporate governance practices differ from unaware and the Director has taken all the steps that those followed by US companies subject to NYSE he or she ought to have taken as a Director listing standards.
HSBC Holdings believes the in order to make himself or herself aware of any following to be the significant differences between relevant audit information and to establish that the its corporate governance practices and NYSE Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This corporate governance rules applicable to US confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the companies.
UK Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to the provisions US companies listed on the NYSE are required thereof.
to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the FSA require None of the Directors had, during the year or at each listed company incorporated in the UK to the end of the year, a material interest, directly or include in its Annual Report and Accounts a indirectly, in any contract of significance with HSBC statement of how it has applied the principles of the Holdings or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Combined Code and a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the code provisions of the Corporate governance codes Combined Code throughout the accounting period HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate covered by the Annual Report and Accounts.
HSBC Holdings has complied company that has not complied with the Code throughout the year with the applicable code provisions, or complied with only some of the Code 308 provisions or in the case of provisions whose NYSE listing standards require US companies requirements are of a continuing nature complied to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for for only part of an accounting period covered by the directors, officers and employees, and promptly report, must specify the Code provisions with which disclose any waivers of the code for directors or it has not complied, and where relevant for what executive officers.
In December 2009, the Board part of the reporting period such non-compliance endorsed three Group Values statements underpinned continued, and give reasons for any non-compliance.
by the continued use of HSBCs Business Principles, As stated above, HSBC Holdings complied in replacement of the Group Business Principles and throughout 2009 with the applicable code provisions Values.
In addition to the Group Values statements of the Combined Code.
The Combined Code does and Business Principles and previously the Group not require HSBC Holdings to disclose the full range Business Principles and Values, which apply to the of corporate governance guidelines with which it employees of all HSBC companies, pursuant to the complies.
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Board of HSBC Holdings has adopted a Code of Ethics Under NYSE standards, companies are required applicable to the Group Chairman and the Group to have a nominating corporate governance Chief Executive, as the principal executive officers, committee, composed entirely of independent and to the Chief Financial Officer, Executive directors.
In addition to identifying individuals Director, Risk and Regulation and Group Chief qualified to become Board members, this committee Accounting Officer.
HSBC Holdings Code of Ethics must develop and recommend to the Board a set of is available on www.
com codeofethics or from corporate governance principles.
HSBCs the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, Nomination Committee complies with the Combined London E14 5HQ.
If the Board amends or waives Code, which requires a majority of members to be the provisions of the Code of Ethics, details of the independent.
All four members of the Committee amendment or waiver will appear at the same during 2009 were independent non-executive website address.
During 2009, HSBC Holdings made Directors.
On 26 February 2010, S K Green, Group no amendments to its Code of Ethics and granted no Chairman, became chairman of the Nomination waivers from its provisions.
The references to the Committee in succession to Sir Brian Williamson, standards to be followed by all employees have been who continues to serve as a member of the updated to reflect the Boards endorsement of Group Committee.
The Committees terms of reference do Values statements underpinned by the continued use not require the Committee to develop and of HSBCs Business Principles.
The Group Values recommend corporate governance principles for statements and Business Principles are available on HSBC Holdings.
As stated above, HSBC Holdings is www.
subject to the corporate governance principles of the Combined Code.
Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent directors must comprise a Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, nonmajority of the Board of directors.
Currently, two management directors must meet on a regular basis thirds of HSBC Holdings Directors are independent.
without management present and independent directors must meet separately at least once per year.
Under the Combined Code the HSBC Holdings During 2009, HSBC Holdings non-executive Board determines whether a Director is independent Directors met four times as a group with the Group in character and judgement and whether there are Chairman, but without other executive Directors relationships or circumstances which are likely to present, and met once as a group without the Group affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors Chairman or other executive Directors present.
Under the NYSE rules a director cannot HSBC Holdings practice, in this regard, complies qualify as independent unless the board affirmatively with the Combined Code.
determines that the director has no material relationship with the listed company: in addition the In accordance with the requirements of the NYSE rules prescribe a list of circumstances in Combined Code, HSBC Holdings discloses in its which a director cannot be independent.
The annual report how the Board, its committees and the Combined Code requires a companys board to Directors are evaluated on page 306 and provides assess director independence by affirmatively extensive information regarding Directors concluding that the director is independent of compensation in the Directors Remuneration Report management and free from any business or other on pages 334 to 348.
The terms of reference of relationship that could materially interfere with the HSBC Holdings Audit, Nomination, Remuneration exercise of independent judgement.
and Risk Committees are available at www.
