The Board well as procedures to ensure an appropriate balance appointed S K Green, Group Chairman to succeed of skills and experience within HSBC and on the Sir Brian Williamson as chairman of the Nomination Board.
Sir Brian remains a member of the Committee.
Corporate Sustainability Committee There were three meetings of the Nomination The role of the Corporate Sustainability Committee Committee during 2009.
The table on page 304 gives and its membership are set out on page 328. details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
Internal control Following each meeting the Committee reports to the Board on its activities.
The Directors are responsible for internal control in HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The terms of reference of the Committee are Procedures have been designed for safeguarding available at www.
assets against unauthorised use or disposition: for The appointment of M K T Cheung as a nonmaintaining proper accounting records: and for the executive Director was made on the advice and reliability and usefulness of financial information recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
An used within the business or for publication.
Such external consultancy was used in connection with the procedures are designed to manage rather than appointment.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not During 2009 the Committee considered the absolute assurance against material misstatement, recommendations of the Walker Review that errors, losses or fraud.
The procedures also enable fall within its remit.
The Committee made HSBC Holdings to discharge its obligations under recommendations to the Board regarding time the Handbook of Rules and Guidance issued by the commitment and the re-election of Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of The key procedures that the Directors have non-executive Directors are available for inspection established are designed to provide effective internal at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be control within HSBC and accord with the Internal made available for 15 minutes before the Annual Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the General Meeting and during the Meeting itself.
Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting The Committee makes recommendations to the Council.
Such procedures for the ongoing Board concerning: plans for succession for both identification, evaluation and management of the executive and non-executive Directors: the significant risks faced by HSBC have been in place appointment of any Director to executive or other throughout the year and up to 1 March 2010, the date office: suitable candidates for the role of senior of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts independent non-executive Director: the re-election 2009.
In the case of companies acquired during the by shareholders of Directors retiring by rotation: the year, the internal controls in place are being renewal of the terms of office of non-executive reviewed against HSBCs benchmarks and Directors: membership of Board Committees, in integrated into HSBCs processes.
consultation with the Group Chairman and the HSBCs key internal control procedures include chairman of such committees as appropriate: any the following: matters relating to the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and appointments and reAuthority to operate the various subsidiaries and appointments to the boards of directors of major responsibilities for financial performance subsidiary companies as appropriate.
against plans and for capital expenditure are delegated to their respective chief executive The Committee regularly reviews the structure, officers within limits set by the Board of size and composition including the skills, Directors of HSBC Holdings.
Delegation of knowledge and experience required of the Board authority from the Board to individuals requires and makes recommendations to the Board as those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate.
It keeps under review the leadership appropriate apportionment of significant needs of HSBC, with a view to ensuring the responsibilities and to oversee the establishment continued ability of HSBC to compete effectively in and maintenance of systems of control the marketplace.
The Board has satisfied itself that appropriate to the business.
The appointment of appropriate plans are in place for orderly succession executives to the most senior positions within to the Board and senior management positions as 313 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Internal control HSBC requires the approval of the Board of financial reporting.
The group financial reporting process for Functional, operating, financial reporting and preparing the consolidated Annual Report and certain management reporting standards are Accounts 2009 is controlled using documented established by Group Management Office accounting policies and reporting formats, management committees for application across supported by a chart of accounts with detailed the whole of HSBC.
These are supplemented by instructions and guidance on reporting operating standards set by functional and local requirements, issued by Group Finance to all management as required for the type of business reporting entities within the Group in advance of and geographical location of each subsidiary.
The submission of financial information from each reporting entity Systems and procedures are in place in HSBC to to Group Finance is subject to certification by identify, control and report on the major risks the responsible financial officer, and analytical including credit, market, liquidity and review procedures at reporting entity and Group operational risk, including accounting, tax, levels.
legal, compliance, information, physical security and fraud risk.
Exposure to these risks is Processes are in place to identify new risks from monitored by risk management committees, changes in market conditions and practices or asset and liability committees and executive customer behaviours which could expose HSBC committees in subsidiaries and, for HSBC as a to heightened risk of loss or reputational whole, by the Group Management Board.
During 2009, attention was focused on Risk Management Meeting of the Group evolving best practice in liquidity management Management Board, chaired by the Chief and stress testing: aggregating more efficiently Financial Officer, Executive Director, Risk and counterparty risk data and improving the Regulation, is held monthly to address asset, counterparty crisis management framework: liability and risk management issues.
The rolling out successfully piloted anti-fraud minutes of this meeting are submitted to the systems: revised guidance on the Group Audit Committee and to the Board of approval review of new products and business Directors.
The Global Operational Risk and initiatives, with greater oversight by the Risk Control Committee GORCC, which reports function: the identification of market pricing to the Risk Management Meeting of the Group anomalies: changes in consumer protection Management Board, meets at least quarterly to standards within personal financial services monitor HSBCs operational risk profile and markets and, more generally, changes in review the effective implementation of the regulation and public policy towards the Groups operational risk management financial services industry, including the impact framework.
The GORCC receives quarterly of government interventions to address the reports on the Groups operational risk profile, under-capitalisation and funding difficulties including top risks, control issues, internal and of certain systemically important financial external operational loss events and key risk institutions.
The GORCC communicates the Periodic strategic plans are prepared for key lessons learned from operational events both customer groups, global product groups, support within HSBC and in the wider industry.
functions and certain geographies within the A Disclosure Committee has been established to framework of the Group Strategic Roadmap.
review public disclosures made by HSBC Rolling operating plans, informed by detailed Holdings for any material errors, misstatements analysis of risk appetite, are prepared and or omissions.
The membership of the Disclosure adopted by all major HSBC operating Committee, which is chaired by the Group companies and set out the key business Company Secretary, includes the heads of the initiatives and the likely financial effects of Finance, Legal, Risk, Compliance, Group those initiatives.
Communications, Investor Relations and Governance and oversight arrangements are in Internal Audit functions and representatives place to ensure that risk analytical models are fit from the principal regions, customer groups and for purpose, used accordingly and global businesses.
The integrity of disclosures is complemented by a variety of model-specific underpinned by structures and processes within and enterprise-wide stress tests that evaluate the the Finance and Risk function that support impact of severe yet plausible events and other expert and rigorous analytical review of 314 unusual circumstances not fully captured by internal audit.
Executive management must also quantitative models.
confirm annually as part of the internal audit process that offices under their control have Centralised functional control is exercised over taken or are in the process of taking the all IT developments and operations.
Common appropriate actions to deal with all significant systems are employed for similar business recommendations made by external auditors in processes wherever practicable.
Credit, market management letters or by regulators following and operational risks are measured and reported regulatory inspections.
on in subsidiaries and aggregated for review of risk concentrations on a Group-wide basis.
The Group Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of this system of internal Functional management in Group Management control and has reported regularly to the Board of Office is responsible for setting policies, Directors.
The key processes used by the Committee procedures and standards in the following areas in carrying out its reviews include: regular business of risk: credit: market: liquidity: operational: and operational risk assessments: regular reports IT: fraud: business continuity: security: from the heads of key risk functions including information: insurance: accounting: tax: legal Internal Audit and Compliance: the production and regulatory compliance: fiduciary: human annually of reviews of the internal control resources: reputational: sustainability and framework applied at Group Management Office purchasing.
Authorities to enter into credit and and major operating subsidiary level measured market risk exposures are delegated with limits against HSBC benchmarks, which cover all internal to line management of Group companies.
The controls, both financial and non-financial: semiconcurrence of Group Management Office is annual confirmations from chief executives of required, however, to credit proposals with principal subsidiary companies as to whether there specified higher risk characteristics.
have been any material losses, contingencies or Policies to guide subsidiary companies and uncertainties caused by weaknesses in internal management at all levels in the conduct of controls: internal audit reports: external audit business to safeguard the Groups reputation are reports: prudential reviews: and regulatory reports.
established by the Board of HSBC Holdings and The Group Audit Committee keeps under review a the Group Management Board, subsidiary Risk Map of the status of key risk areas which company boards, board committees and senior impact the Group and considers whether the management.
Reputational risks can arise from mitigating actions put in place are appropriate.
In environmental, social or governance issues, or addition, where unexpected losses have arisen or as a consequence of operational risk events.
As where incidents have occurred which indicate gaps a banking group, HSBCs good reputation in the control framework or in adherence to Group depends upon the way in which it conducts its policies, the Group Audit Committee has reviewed business but it can also be affected by the way in special reports, prepared at the instigation of which clients, to which it provides financial management, which analyse the cause of the issue, services, conduct their business or use financial the lessons learned and the actions proposed by products and services.
management to address the issue.
The establishment and maintenance of The Directors, through the Group Audit appropriate systems of internal control is Committee, have conducted an annual review of the primarily the responsibility of business effectiveness of HSBCs system of internal control management.
The internal audit function, covering all material controls, including financial, which is centrally controlled, monitors the operational and compliance controls and risk effectiveness of internal control structures management systems and the adequacy of resources, across the whole of HSBC focusing on the areas qualifications and experience of staff of the issuers of greatest risk to HSBC as determined using a accounting and financial reporting function, and risk-based grading approach.
The head of this their training programmes and budget.
The Group function reports to the Group Chairman and the Audit Committee has received confirmation that Group Audit Committee.
executive management has taken or is taking the necessary action to remedy any failings or Executive management is responsible for weaknesses identified through the operation of ensuring that recommendations made by the HSBCs framework of controls.
internal audit function are implemented within an appropriate and agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect must be provided to 315
