CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTENTS Chairmans introduction 64 Compliance statement 65 The Board 65 Shareholder engagement 68 Accountability and audit 70 Audit Committee 70 Internal control 72 Corporate social responsibility 74 CSR Committee 74 Appointments to the Board 76 Nominations Committee 76 Richard Burrows Chairman CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION At British American Tobacco, we are committed to good corporate governance.
We seek to achieve our business objectives in a manner which is responsible and consistent with our beliefs in honesty, transparency and accountability.
We regard corporate governance not simply as an exercise in compliance, but as a key element underpinning the sustainable, long-term growth of our business.
I have therefore been following with interest the recent developments in corporate governance and, in particular, the Financial Reporting Councils review of the Combined Code, and the Code on the Responsibilities of Institutional Investors recently published by the Institutional Shareholders Committee.
British American Tobacco has been active in contributing to the debate, and will continue to put forward its views on good governance.
I see the Boards principal role as providing the leadership necessary to promote the success of the Company within the context of an effective framework of authority and accountability that promotes talent, innovation and best practice, while managing and mitigating risk.
As Chairman, I am conscious that it is my responsibility to ensure that this is achieved and, in particular, to encourage the productive engagement of all members of the Board in overseeing delivery of the Groups strategy.
I am confident that British American Tobacco will continue to prosper through its effective mix of good governance, a clear and consistent corporate strategy and excellent management.
Our aim as a Board is simply to ensure that this effective combination continues to return enhanced value to our shareholders.
64 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 Richard Burrows was appointed Chairman with effect from Compliance statement 1 November 2009, having joined the Board as a Non-Executive The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed Director on 1 September 2009.
On appointment, he met the on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the Combined independence criteria set out in the Code.
Code on Corporate Governance adopted in June 2008 the Code.
Biographical and related information about the Directors is given The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is on the Board of Directors page.
available from its website www.
As required by the Code, this statement reports on how the Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors principles of the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance NUMBER are applied by the Company and provides our formal report on Chairman 1 compliance with the Codes provisions.
Executive Directors 3 The Board considers that this statement provides the information Independent Non-Executive Directors 7 necessary to enable shareholders to evaluate how the principles Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors 0 of the Code have been applied, that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year, and that it Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors has therefore satisfied its obligations under the Code.
NUMBER In the interests of further transparency, we have again prepared a 0-3 years 3 report which summarises the matters addressed in this statement, 3-6 years 3 as appropriate, by reference to each principle and provision of 6-9 years 1 the Code.
The updated report will be available on the corporate 9 years 0 governance section of www.
com from the date of publication of the Annual Report.
Gender split of Directors NUMBER The Board The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success Male 8 of the Group and for its overall strategic direction, its values and its Female 3 governance.
It provides the leadership necessary for the Group to meet its business objectives within the framework of its internal controls, while also discharging the Companys obligations to its shareholders.
There is a mix of nationalities represented on the Board, comprising Brazilian, British, Dutch, French, Irish and Spanish.
Directors The Company currently has a Board of 11 Directors: Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with each Chairman having distinct and clearly defined responsibilities.
Richard Burrows The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for ensuring Executive Directors its effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for Board meetings in consultation Paul Adams Chief Executive with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
He is also responsible Ben Stevens Finance Director for ensuring that the interests of the Companys shareholders are Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer safeguarded and that there is effective communication with them.
The Non-Executive Directors Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading the direction of the Sir Nicholas Scheele Senior Independent Director Groups corporate and financial strategy and for the overall supervision Karen fide Segundo of the Groups policies governing the conduct of its business.
Robert Lerwill The Chief Executive provides leadership to the Group to enable the Dr Ana Maria Llopis successful planning and execution of the objectives and strategies Christine Morin-Postel agreed by the Board.
He is also responsible for stewardship of the Dr Gerry Murphy Groups assets and, jointly with the Chairman, representation of the Anthony Ruys Group externally.
Gerry Murphy was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 13 March Senior Independent Director 2009.
Thys Visser retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual Sir Nicholas Scheele is the Senior Independent Director.
When required, General Meeting on 30 April 2009.
Jan du Plessis stepped down as he presides at meetings of the Board and shareholders in the absence Chairman and retired from the Board on 31 October 2009, and of the Chairman.
In 2009, he called and chaired an unscheduled Board Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED meeting to address Jan du Plessis decision to take up the role of The Boards principal responsibilities include: Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
He subsequently managed the process of approving the Groups business strategy and ensuring that identifying and recruiting a successor to Jan du Plessis, meeting with an effective management team and the necessary financial and the Boards recruitment consultants and shortlisting and meeting a human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives: number of candidates.
He is available should occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other than through agreeing the Group Budget: the Chairman or Chief Executive.
approving the Companys Annual Report and reviewing its periodic Board balance and independence financial reports: The Board considers that all seven of the Non-Executive Directors are declaring an interim dividend and recommending the final dividend: independent, in the sense that they are free from any business or other relationships which could materially interfere with or appear to affect agreeing the agenda for the Annual General Meeting: the exercise of their judgment and have not previously been involved agreeing succession plans and evaluating the Boards performance in the management of the Group.
All Directors are aware of their over the preceding year: and responsibility to take decisions objectively which promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members.
reviewing the Companys internal controls and governance system and approving the Standards of Business Conduct and Meetings of the Board other Group policies.
The Board held eight meetings in 2009, seven of which were scheduled and one of which was convened at short notice to address Key activities of the Board in 2009 Jan du Plessis decision to take up the role of Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
Growth It is scheduled to hold seven meetings in 2010.
The Board regularly reviewed opportunities to grow the business Board meeting attendance including potential mergers and acquisitions activity.
In 2009, Meetings the Group successfully acquired the Bentoel tobacco business Meetings eligible Name attended to attend in Indonesia.
The Board also considered industry trends and the 1 Jan du Plessis 77 outlook for the Groups businesses in strategically important markets 2 Richard Burrows 33 and consumer segments.
The Groups innovation and new Sir Nicholas Scheele 7 8 product development programmes were reviewed and prioritised.
Paul Adams 8 8 Productivity Ben Stevens 8 8 With a continued focus on costs in 2009, the Board looked Nicandro Durante 8 8 at both short-term savings and the scoping of a longer-term Karen fide Segundo 8 8 initiative, the Global Integration Project, addressing structural Robert Lerwill 8 8 costs.
In consequence, a number of reorganisations within the Ana Maria Llopis 7 8 Groups regions and functions were considered during the year, Christine Morin-Postel 7 8 and are now in the process of being implemented, and the 3 Gerry Murphy 66 closure of the Groups factory in Denmark has been announced.
Anthony Ruys 7 8 4 Thys Visser 33 Responsibility The Board monitored developments in tobacco regulation Notes: 1 Jan du Plessis stood down from the Board and as Chairman with effect from around the world, including the progress of the World Health 31 October 2009.
Organisations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and 2 Richard Burrows was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2009 and was the potential impact that regulation may have on the Groups appointed Chairman with effect from 1 November 2009. businesses or products.
This is reflected in the priorities for the 3 Gerry Murphy was appointed to the Board on 13 March 2009.
4 Thys Visser retired from the Board on 30 April 2009.
Winning organisation The Chairman will always seek to obtain consensus at Board meetings The Board reviewed succession planning in consultation with the but, where necessary, decisions will be taken by majority.
If any Director Nominations Committee, and a number of new appointments has concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action were made in 2009 at both Main Board and Management Board which cannot be resolved, such concerns will be recorded in the Board level.
In addition, the position of the Groups major pension funds minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2009.
The Non-Executive Directors, was reviewed including how the Group is managing future liabilities.
led by the Chairman, meet, if required, prior to meetings of the Board The results and action plans arising from the global Your Voice without the Executive Directors present and also meet annually, led by survey of employees conducted in 2008 were also considered.
the Senior Independent Director, without the Chairman present.
66 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 In addition, in line with its practice of visiting one of the Groups During 2009, a number of actual and potential conflicts were key markets annually, the Board held one of its meetings in Turkey, notified to the Company in accordance with these procedures.
where it received presentations from members of the British They were referred to, and, where appropriate, authorised by, American Tobacco Turkey top team, participated in a market visit the Board and recorded in the register of interests maintained and visited the factory in Samsun.
All were considered at meetings of the Board and none were sufficiently significant to warrant disclosure although see Directors interests and indemnities Management Board under Appointments to the Board below.
The Board delegates to the Management Board responsibility for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy which it sets, and for creating the conditions Information and professional development for their successful day-to-day operation.
The Management Board All Directors receive induction on joining the Board, covering their is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members are the duties and responsibilities as directors.
Non-Executive Directors also Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer and the 10 senior Group receive a full programme of briefings on all areas of the Companys executives, whose names appear on the Management Board page.
business from the Executive Directors, members of the Management It held 11 meetings in 2009, nine of which were scheduled and two Board and other senior executives, and they may request such further of which were convened to consider specific initiatives, including information as they consider necessary.
It is scheduled to hold nine meetings in 2010.
Members of the Management Board are invited to attend During 2009, both Richard Burrows and Gerry Murphy attended meetings of the Board from time to time, in particular when the induction briefings subsequent to their respective appointments.
Groups strategy and budget are under discussion.
These included sessions on the Groups strategy, its organisational structure and its business functions and activities, including its Board Committees financing principles and statutory reporting cycle, Environmental The Board has established four principal Board Committees, to Health & Safety issues, Research & Development activities which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They are the Audit and regulation issues.
They also attended sessions addressing Committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, the corporate governance issues and their duties as directors, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The roles, Groups internal control and risk management framework and membership and activities of these Committees are described in more the role of the external auditors.
detail later in this Corporate governance statement and, in the case of the Remuneration Committee, in the Remuneration report.
The As Chairman designate, Richard Burrows received a broader full terms of reference for each Committee are available from the level of induction, which included more in-depth sessions on Company Secretary and on www.
the above subjects, sessions with Jan du Plessis on the role and operation of the Board and the Board strategy review process, Conflicts of interest and visits to a manufacturing facility in Germany and the Groups The Board has formal procedures for managing compliance with Research & Development site in Southampton.
His induction the conflicts of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The will continue into 2010 with visits to Group key markets and Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise actual a number of meetings to enable him to introduce himself to and potential conflicts.
Directors are required to give advance notice institutional shareholders.
of any conflict issues to the Company Secretary, and these will then be considered either at the next Board meeting or, if the conflict or potential conflict is due to arise prior to the next scheduled Board All Directors receive briefings designed to update their skills and meeting, at a meeting of the Boards Conflicts Committee.
The full knowledge on a regular basis, for example in relation to the business Board will be notified at its next meeting of any matters authorised and on legal and regulatory requirements, and by visits to Company by the Committee.
Once a year, at its meeting in February, the Board sites see the key activities of the Board in 2009.
They also make use of reviews all conflict matters which have previously been authorised.
the opportunity to attend meetings of the Groups regional audit and The review will take the form of a fresh consideration of each matter.
In response to feedback received during the Boards Directors are excluded from the quorum and the vote in respect of 2009 evaluation see below, the Board timetable will be extended with any matters in which they have an interest.
effect from 2011 to allow an additional day for training or briefings on relevant matters.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board and its Committees receive high-quality, up-to-date The outcome of the 2009 Board review has confirmed that the information for review in good time ahead of each meeting, and the Directors consider that the Board has a good balance of skills, Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, ensures is working well and continues to be refreshed, with two further good information flows within the Board and its Committees and appointments in 2009.
Acknowledging, however, that there between the Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
is always room for improvement, the process also identified The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board, a number of areas for focus in the coming year, including: through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
strategic risk management and the Groups overall approach to risk: All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them to take independent a review of Board support processes to identify efficiencies professional advice at the Companys expense should this be required.
and systems solutions: The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to provide cover in the event of legal action against its Directors.
further changes to the arrangements for the Audit and CSR Committees.
While smaller meetings have allowed for much Evaluation of Board performance more in-depth discussion, particularly around specific risks An evaluation of the performance of the Board, each of its Committees identified on the Group risk register, members believe that and of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors is conducted each holding meetings simultaneously will relieve pressure on the year using a series of questionnaires.
A broad range of standard topics timings of those Committees, allowing for more thorough is covered including the programme of regular Board or Committee debate or specific briefings of relevance to the Committees: business, Board behaviours, Group strategy and succession planning.
Different questions are used for assessing the skills and contributions additional non-executive appointments: and of each of the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors and Executive a revision to the Board calendar from 2011 onwards setting Directors, given their different roles on the Board.
aside a further day in July each year to accommodate longer The survey is updated annually to ensure the process remains relevant meetings and or training.
to internal circumstances as well as the external environment.
In 2009, given the debate around corporate governance generally, extra questions The formal process in 2009 was also supplemented by an informal were included about the Groups approach to risk, Board training and meeting in September 2009 for Audit Committee members to discuss Directors ability to provide effective challenge.
In addition, progress proposals to improve the effectiveness of that Committee, and in against the 2008 Board action plan was checked, in particular how December 2009 for Non-Executive Directors only and Richard Burrows, the smaller Committee membership, introduced in late 2008, has by then Chairman, at which the Boards action plan was considered in impacted the effectiveness of the Audit and CSR Committees.
As it did in 2008, the Board considered whether to introduce an external In addition to the formal Board evaluation process the Chairman also facilitator to manage the evaluation.
However, it concluded that the discusses the effectiveness and performance of Directors immediately Company Secretary was well placed to devise updated questions that are before they make themselves available for reappointment.
The Notice relevant and appropriate to the Company and that, having attended Board for this years Annual General Meeting confirms that the performance and Committee meetings throughout the year, the Company Secretary of the Directors being proposed for reappointment continues to be would also understand, and ensure a full and frank discussion around, effective and that they continue to show commitment to their role.
Shareholder engagement The responses to all questionnaires formed the basis for one-to-one, Relations with shareholders confidential, interviews conducted by the Company Secretary with The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed towards each of the Directors and the Chairman.
Following the interviews, ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Its primary contact with the Company Secretary collated and analysed the results and shareholders, facilitated by the Head of Investor Relations, is through prepared separate reports, summarising key points and including the Executive Directors, but the Chairman also maintains contact with non-attributable comments given in individual responses.
Board and major shareholders in order to understand their views on the Company.
Committee reports were initially discussed with the Chairman of the In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive Board or relevant Committee before being presented by the Company Directors are available to meet with major shareholders in order to Secretary at a Board or Committee meeting.
The main points of understand their views and any concerns which they may have.
discussion and Committee action points, if any, were also reported back to the Board.
Reports on the individual performance of each During 2009, a wide range of business and corporate governance Executive and Non-Executive Director excluding the Chairman issues, including strategy and risk, dividend policy and the share were raised by the Chairman with that Director as appropriate, and buy-back programme, were discussed with a number of major the Chairmans performance was discussed initially with the Senior institutional investors as part of the regular investor relations Independent Director before he provided feedback to the Chairman.
68 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
In addition, a focused schedule of visits to key institutional to the London Stock Exchange and the JSE Limited in South Africa, shareholders was undertaken following the appointment of Richard and also on www.
The Company appoints an independent Burrows as Chairman, as part of his induction process.
assessor to scrutinise the Annual General Meeting and to produce a report of the meeting, covering the proxy voting process, attendance Investor seminars and analyst presentations, including those following and an audit of the poll procedures.
The report in 2009 confirmed the the announcement of the preliminary results and the half-year report, adequacy, accuracy and fairness of the proxy process and the voting are available by webcast, and other presentations made to institutional procedures and systems.
investors are available on www.
There is a debt micro site on www.
com for debt investors, which includes comprehensive Stock market listings bondholder information on credit ratings, debt facilities, outstanding The ordinary shares of the Company as British American Tobacco bonds and maturity profiles.
p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange for listed securities since At least twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations presents a report 8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and ISIN: GB0002875804.
to the Board on the various issues raised by institutional shareholders.
The share registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
In addition, the Board receives a report at each of its meetings on any changes to the holdings of the Company.
Since 28 October 2008, the Companys ordinary shares have had a secondary listing on the JSE Limited in South Africa JSE, under the Communications with shareholders abbreviated name BATS and the trading code BTI.
As at 31 December As part of its continuing shareholder strategy, the Company 2009, 239,887,274 ordinary shares of the Company being 12.02 per recognises the benefits of electronic communications with its cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding shareholders.
During 2009, the Company contacted relevant treasury shares were on its South African branch register for which shareholders to encourage them to move away from receiving Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd are share registrars.
paper copies of Company documentation and to register for email communication.
In particular, shareholders were encouraged to use The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE Alternext U. S. the dividend mandate instructions in preference to receiving individual in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs under the symbol cheques.
Shareholders will benefit by receiving their dividend on the BTI with a CUSIP number 110448107.
Each ADR represents two of the date of payment and the Company and the environment benefit Companys ordinary shares and at 31 December 2009, 29,161,536 from a reduction of paper and energy consumption.
It is with this ADRs were outstanding, represented by 58,323,072 ordinary shares.
background that the Company is proposing to make the appropriate Citibank, N. A. continues to act as depositary for the ADR programme.
amendment to its Articles of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in order that it may, in the future, pay its dividends The Company has unlisted trading privileges for the ADR programme solely by the direct credit method.
The Company has no immediate and none of its securities are listed on any United States securities plans to implement this change but it is considered prudent to exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the United incorporate the necessary provision at this time, given that other States.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither the NYSE changes are in any event being made to the Articles of Association.
Alternext US listing standards nor the corporate governance rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Nevertheless, the Board has Annual General Meeting chosen, in the interests of good governance, to make a voluntary The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Mermaid Conference statement explaining the principal differences and common areas & Events Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, London EC4V 3DB at between the Companys corporate governance practices as explained 11.30am on 28 April 2010.
Details of the business to be proposed at above and those that would be required if the Company were the meeting are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting subject to those rules.
The updated statement will be available on which is sent to all shareholders and is also published on www.
the corporate governance section of www.
com from the date The Annual General Meeting provides a useful opportunity for of publication of the Annual Report.
shareholder engagement and, in particular, for the Chairman to Significant shareholders explain the Companys progress and receive questions from investors.
At 24 February 2010, the following substantial interests 3 per cent or The chairmen of the Audit, CSR and Remuneration Committees are more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting securities had normally available at the Annual General Meeting to take any relevant been notified to the Company: questions, and all other Directors attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
All Directors Number of % of issued ordinary shares share capital attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2009.
BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 6.66 The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll Legal & General Group Plc 89,640,900 4.49 rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency Reinet Investments S. C. A.
84,303,670 4.22 and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those Note: cast by proxy.
The Chairman announces the provisional voting results The percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
at the Meeting, and the final results are announced on the same day Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Accountability and audit Summary terms of reference Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements CURRENT MEMBERS and any formal announcements relating to the Companys Robert Lerwill Chairman performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them before their submission to the Board for Christine Morin-Postel approval: Anthony Ruys Sir Nicholas Scheele keeping under review the consistency of the accounting policies applied across the Group: reviewing the effectiveness of the accounting, internal control and business risk systems of the Company and its subsidiaries: reviewing and, when appropriate, making recommendations to the Board on business risks, internal controls and compliance: Attendance at meetings in 2009 monitoring compliance with the Companys Standards of Meetings Business Conduct: Meetings eligible Name attended to attend monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Robert Lerwill 5 5 internal audit function: and Christine Morin-Postel 5 5 monitoring and reviewing the performance of the Companys Anthony Ruys 5 5 external auditors, making recommendations as to their Sir Nicholas Scheele 4 5 reappointment or, where appropriate, making recommendations for change, and approving their terms of engagement and the The Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director attend meetings level of audit fees payable to them.
of the Committee by invitation but are not members.
The Committees meetings are also attended by the Head of Audit and Business Risk, the General Counsel to the Company and a representative of the The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated external auditors.
The full terms of reference are available from the As a matter of best practice, the Committee meets alone with the Company Secretary and on www.
external auditors at the end of every meeting.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and all employees are expected to cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers considered by the Committee are available to any Director who is not a member, should they wish to receive them.
70 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the Key activities of the Audit Committee in 2009 financial statements and their statement concerning relevant audit The Audit Committee met five times during 2009, including information is included at the end of this Governance section.
immediately before the Companys full year results were Going concern published.
In addition to its standing items of business and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to periodic reports from the Head of Audit and Business Risk, the affect its future development, performance and position are set out Head of Group Security and the Groups regional audit and CSR in the Performance and strategy section and the Regional review.
committees and corporate audit committee, the specific items The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, considered by the Audit Committee during 2009 included: facilities and borrowing position are described in the Financial review.
a twice yearly review of the Group risk register and The key Group risk factors include an analysis of financial risk and the consideration of specific key risks: Groups approach to financial risk management and notes 21 and 24 in the Notes on the accounts provide further detail on the Groups a review of information technology security procedures borrowings and management of financial risks.
and controls: The Group has at the date of the report, sufficient existing financing governance and risk management in relation to major available for its estimated requirements for at least the next 12 months.
projects and programmes: This, together with its proven ability to generate cash from trading compliance with the Groups Standards of Business Conduct activities, the performance of the Groups Global Drive Brands, its and records management procedures: leading market positions in a number of countries and its broad geographical spread, as well as numerous contracts with established a review of the treatment of adjusting items in financial customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries, reporting: provides the Directors with the confidence that the Group is well placed a review of the internal audit planning framework and to manage its business risks successfully in the context of current consideration of the annual internal audit works plan: financial conditions and the general outlook in the global economy.
the form and content of the Companys Interim Management After reviewing the Groups annual budget, plans and financing Statements, following the Boards decision in 2009 to cease arrangements, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate quarterly reporting: and resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis.
the annual review of the independence of the Companys external auditors and consideration of the forthcoming External auditors replacement of the lead external audit partner by rotation The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise see below.
and resources, and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committees assessment is informed by an external audit satisfaction survey completed by The Audit Committee reviewed its effectiveness in 2009 as part of members of senior management, which it reviews in detail.
The Committee concluded that it is operating effectively and, in particular, that it had benefited from  LLP have been the Companys auditors since the changes introduced late in 2008 which reduced the size of the it listed on the London Stock Exchange in September 1998.
In addition, the revised process for assessing Group risks Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working has allowed for specific risks to be considered in much greater detail well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has than previously.
The Committee also recommended to the Board that not considered it necessary to require the firm to tender for the audit the broad issue of the Groups attitude to risk be considered separately work.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys by the Board at least once a year.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits Financial reporting every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a for five years.
The Audit Committee, having considered the position, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position has determined that he will be replaced by rotation after completion and prospects in the Directors report and financial statements of the 2009 Annual Report.
and in periodic reports, reports to regulators and price-sensitive Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Audit Committee has an established policy aimed at safeguarding Confidential reporting procedures and supporting the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The Standards of Business Conduct also set out the Groups Pursuant to this policy, it keeps under review the ratio of audit fees to whistleblowing policy, which enables staff, in confidence, to raise non-audit fees charged by the external auditors to ensure that neither concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters their independence nor their objectivity is put at risk.
A breakdown of and to do so without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns are non-audit fees charged by the external auditors is disclosed in note not raised in bad faith.
The policy is supplemented by local procedures 3 d in the Notes on the accounts.
The Committee also takes steps throughout the Group and at the Groups London headquarters, which to ensure that the external auditors do not audit their own work.
provide staff with additional guidance and enable them to report matters in a language with which they are comfortable.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee has completed its assessment of the external receives regular reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied auditors for the financial period under review.
It remains confident that the policy and the procedures in place incorporate arrangements that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors are not for the proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they and for the appropriate follow-up action.
Moreover, the Committee is satisfied that their selection for such work is based upon an assessment of their abilities, Internal control taking into account their existing knowledge of the Group, with the The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal control majority of such work being awarded through a competitive tendering for the Company and its subsidiaries, and for reviewing the systems process.
Having satisfied itself as to their qualification, expertise, effectiveness.
With the support of the Audit Committee, it carries resources and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process, out such a review annually, covering all material controls including it has recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders, the financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management reappointment of  LLP as the Companys systems, and reports to shareholders that it has done so.
external auditors and approved their fees and terms of engagement.
Overview Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on The Company maintains a sound system of internal control with a view 28 April 2010 to reappoint  LLP as the to safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage risks that may impede remuneration for the 2010 audit.
the achievement of the Companys business objectives rather than to eliminate these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not Political contributions absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A description The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing donations made of the key risk factors that may affect the Groups business is provided for political purposes throughout the Group.
No donation was made in the section on Performance and strategy.
in 2009 to any political party registered in the UK under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The aggregate figure for The main features of the risk management processes and system contributions made to non-EU political parties in 2009 was 76,969 of internal control operated within the Group are described below.
In 2009, this figure comprised solely of contributions They do not cover the Groups associate undertakings.
They have made by the Groups subsidiary in Australia.
been in place throughout the year under review and up to date.
Standards of Business Conduct Audit and CSR committee framework The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with The Groups audit and CSR committee framework underpins the the Companys Standards of Business Conduct, which underpin the Boards Audit and CSR Committees.
It provides a flexible channel Companys commitment to good corporate behaviour.
The Standards for the structured flow of information throughout the organisation, of Business Conduct have been in place for many years, and require all with committees at various levels covering key individual markets, staff to act with high standards of business integrity, to comply with all areas and the Groups regions, each referring matters to the next applicable laws and regulations and to ensure that business standards level as appropriate.
This framework ensures that significant financial, are never compromised for the sake of results.
They were expanded social, environmental and reputational risks faced by the Company and updated with effect from 1 January 2008 and continue to be kept and its subsidiaries are appropriately managed, and that any failings under review in order to ensure that they remain at the forefront of or weaknesses are identified so that remedial action may be taken best business practice.
Every Group company and every employee where necessary.
worldwide is expected to live up to them and guidance on them is The Groups regional audit and CSR committees which are each communicated regularly throughout the Group, including through chaired by an Executive Director focus on risks and the control training and awareness programmes.
The Standards of Business Conduct environment within each region and are in turn supported by area are available from the Company Secretary and on www.
72 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 and or individual market audit and CSR committees.
A corporate The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance audit committee sits at the same level as the regional committees and to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk management and focuses on the risks and the control environment within the Groups control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks operations which do not fall within the regional committees remit, on Group companies and other business units, and does so against for example head office central functions, global programmes and an audit plan presented annually to the Audit Committee, which above-region projects.
It comprises members of the Management focuses in particular on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
Board and is chaired by a Management Board member responsible Review for one of the Groups Regions to maximise its independence from The Turnbull Guidance the Guidance sets out best practice on central executive management.
It is in turn supported by separate internal control for UK-listed companies to assist them in assessing the audit committees covering the Groups global IT and operations application of the Codes principles and compliance with the Codes functions, which were introduced as separate committees in 2009. provisions with regard to internal control.
The current version of the The relevant external and internal auditors regularly attend meetings Guidance applies to listed companies for financial years beginning on of these committees and have private audiences with members of the or after 1 January 2006. committees at least once each year.
In addition, central, regional and The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise individual market management, along with internal audit, supports to, enable the Board and the Audit Committee to monitor the internal the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
control framework on a continuing basis throughout the year and to Risk management and internal control processes review its effectiveness at the year end.
The Board, with advice from its Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess of the system of internal control for the period since 1 January 2009. and monitor the key risks both financial and non-financial faced No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board by the business at each level.
Mitigation plans are required to be is satisfied that, where specific areas for improvement have been in place to manage the risks identified and the risk registers and identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary remedial mitigation plans are reviewed and, where appropriate, updated on a action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The Board is satisfied regular basis.
They are also reviewed regularly by the relevant regional that the system of internal control is in accordance with the Guidance.
audit and CSR committee, the corporate audit committee and, in the case of the Group risk register, by the Boards Audit Committee.
Group companies and other business units are required at least annually to complete a checklist of the key controls which they are expected to have in place, called Control Navigator.
Its purpose is to enable them to self-assess their internal control environment, assist them in identifying any controls which may require strengthening and support them in implementing and monitoring action plans to address control weaknesses.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed annually to ensure that it remains relevant to the business and covers all applicable key controls.
In addition, at each year end, Group companies and other business units are required to: review their system of internal control, confirm whether it remains effective and report on any material weaknesses and the action being taken to address them: and review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct and identify any material instances of non-compliance or conflicts of interest identified.
The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional audit and CSR committee or to the corporate audit committee and, where appropriate, to the Boards Audit Committee to ensure that appropriate remedial action has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate social responsibility Summary terms of reference CSR Committee The CSR Committee is responsible for: reviewing and making appropriate recommendations to the Board as regards the Companys management of corporate CURRENT MEMBERS social responsibility CSR and the conduct of business in Karen fide Segundo Chairman accordance with the Statement of Business Principles: Dr Ana Maria Llopis monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Dr Gerry Murphy strategy for, and management of, significant social, Sir Nicholas Scheele environmental and reputational issues: reviewing and monitoring the Groups plans for, and progress towards, business sustainability: and monitoring the effectiveness of the CSR governance process.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated in March 2009.
The full terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and on www.
Attendance at meetings in 2009 Meetings Meetings eligible The CSR Committee is authorised by the Board to review activity Name attended to attend within the business with respect to CSR.
It is authorised to seek the Karen fide Segundo Chairman 4 4 information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of Ana Maria Llopis 4 4 its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and all 1 Gerry Murphy 34 employees are expected to cooperate with any request made by Sir Nicholas Scheele 3 4 the Committee.
It is authorised by the Board to obtain independent 2 Thys Visser 12 professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
Notes: 1 Gerry Murphy became a member on 13 March 2009.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of 2 Thys Visser ceased to be a member on 30 April 2009. the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers considered by the Committee The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Management Board member are available to any Director who is not a member, should they wish to responsible for Corporate and Regulatory Affairs attend meetings by receive them.
invitation but are not members.
The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings and one unscheduled meeting in 2009.
With effect from 2009, the number of scheduled CSR Committee meetings held annually was increased from two to three, with an additional full meeting being added in July in consequence of the Committees expanded remit following the amendment of its terms of reference in December 2008, and in order to establish greater continuity between meetings.
The unscheduled meeting took place at the beginning of April to approve the Groups annual Sustainability Report and will again take place in 2010.
74 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 In April 2009, the Company published its second Sustainability Report Key activities of the CSR Committee in 2009 outlining progress in each of the five key elements of its sustainability The CSR Committee met four times in 2009.
In April 2010, it will be publishing its third Sustainability considered by it included: Report and, in response to feedback received from stakeholders, this will adopt a more global and Group-wide approach.
Not only will this approval of the Companys Sustainability Report for 2008: provide a more comprehensive report, but it will also allow a more an improved approach to sustainability reporting, to be efficient approach to be adopted throughout the Group.
incorporated in the report for 2009, and progress against the targets and commitments set out in the 2008 Report: The Company has been included in both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index for the the management of key reputational risks and related risk eighth successive year.
It received the highest Platinum rating in mitigation plans: the Corporate Responsibility Index 2008 run by Business in the human rights and related issues, youth smoking prevention Community, the 700 member organisation established in the UK initiatives and environmental, health and safety measures: to help business improve its positive impact on society, and is the first tobacco company to reach Platinum status and one of only corporate social investment activities: and nine new entrants in the Platinum sector during 2009. adherence to the Groups International Marketing Standards.
Corporate social investment The Company recognises the role of business as a corporate citizen and The Committee reviewed its effectiveness as part of the Board Group companies have long supported local community and charitable evaluation process.
In 2009, the Committee concluded that there projects.
The Groups approach to corporate social investment CSI is had been a significant improvement over the previous year as a result to regard it as an end in itself, rather than as a means of promotion, of changes to the Committee membership and the development of a and Group companies have always been closely identified with the more focused framework for agenda setting and debate.
The Committee communities where they operate.
requested more in-depth briefings on CSR issues and will work in 2010 towards developing a better understanding of the benefits being Group companies are encouraged to focus their CSI activities around delivered by the Groups CSR programme.
Further changes will also three themes: be implemented to the meeting arrangements for the Committee Sustainable agriculture: This includes activities such as efforts to aimed at allowing more time for discussion and training.
improve biodiversity and access to water, afforestation, programmes CSR governance to prevent child labour and grants for agricultural research or The CSR Committee is supported at regional and local levels through training to help farmers optimise land yields by growing additional combined audit and CSR committees.
The structure aims to support non-tobacco crops.
These initiatives are expected to compliment the embedding of CSR across the Group and to monitor performance the Groups own agricultural, environmental and biodiversity against the Groups principles and standards.
The regional audit and conservation practices.
CSR committees meet three times annually, and they follow a standard Civic life: This encompasses activities that aim to enrich public and agenda, in order that materials and issues which are presented and raised community life, including supporting the arts and educational institutions, at regional level may feed into Board level discussions, and vice versa.
conserving indigenous cultures and restoring public spaces.
Statement of Business Principles Empowerment: This focuses on communities where we operate, The principles set out within our Statement of Business Principles are providing people with educational opportunities to help them designed to help meet the expectations placed on us by our various develop, for example through scholarships and information stakeholders, and they form the basis on which we expect our businesses technology training or programmes supporting small businesses to be run in terms of responsibility.
Developed in consultation with and promoting entrepreneurship.
Group companies also continue stakeholders, the Statement comprises three principles Mutual Benefit, to make other important contributions to meet local needs, such Responsible Product Stewardship and Good Corporate Conduct as relief efforts after natural disasters or AIDS prevention.
and 18 Core Beliefs which explain in more detail what each principle means for the Group.
It is available from the Company Secretary and The major activities currently supported by the Company are the on www.
British American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership and the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation.
Sustainability reporting The Companys Sustainability Reports and, prior to 2008, its Social Charitable contributions Reports have detailed its social, ethical and environmental performance Payments for charitable purposes in 2009 amounted to 14 million 2008: and performance against its commitments each year since the Companys 18 million, 2 million of which was paid in the UK 2008: 2 million.
Sustainability reporting, like the social OECD Guidelines reporting that preceded it, is conducted using a robust methodology, The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries in which it including independent assurance conducted by Ernst & Young LLP, operates and in this context, notes the OECD Guidelines for Multinational in line with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008.
Engagement with Enterprises in their current form.
key stakeholders is a major requirement of the Standard and we have continued to hold independently facilitated and assured dialogue with those stakeholders throughout the year.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Appointments to the Board Summary terms of reference Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Main Board CURRENT MEMBERS and Management Board to ensure that both boards have an Richard Burrows Chairman appropriate balance of expertise and ability: Sir Nicholas Scheele reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors and Karen fide Segundo members of the Management Board: Robert Lerwill making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates Dr Ana Maria Llopis for appointment as Main Board Directors or as members of the Christine Morin-Postel Management Board: Dr Gerry Murphy ensuring that the procedure for appointing new Directors is Anthony Ruys rigorous and transparent and that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria for the purpose: and Attendance at meetings in 2009 assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Meetings Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring Meetings eligible Name attended to attend that Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
1 Jan du Plessis 55 2 Richard Burrows 11 Sir Nicholas Scheele 4 5 The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated Karen fide Segundo 5 5 in March 2009.
The full terms of reference are available from the Robert Lerwill 5 5 Company Secretary and on www.
Ana Maria Llopis 5 5 The Nominations Committee reviews forthcoming retirements at Christine Morin-Postel 4 5 least once a year and considers the need to identify candidates to 3 Gerry Murphy 44 fill vacancies on the Board.
This process includes an evaluation of the Anthony Ruys 5 5 skills and experience to be looked for in those candidates to ensure 4 Thys Visser 22 continuing Board balance.
The selection process will generally involve Notes: interviews with a selection of candidates, using where appropriate the 1 Jan du Plessis ceased to be a member on 31 October 2009. services of executive search firms specialising in board level recruitment.
2 Richard Burrows became a member on 1 September 2009.
3 Gerry Murphy became a member on 13 March 2009.
4 Thys Visser ceased to be a member on 30 April 2009.
The Chief Executive and Management Board member responsible for Human Resources attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
76 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 The Companys practice has always been to indemnify its Directors Key activities of the Nominations Committee in 2009 in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to The Nominations Committee met five times in 2009.
The specific the maximum extent permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, items considered by it included: such indemnities are in force covering any costs, charges, expenses or liabilities which they may incur in or about the execution of their duties the recruitment of Dr Gerry Murphy and his appointment to the Company or to any entity which is an associated company as to the Board as a Non-Executive Director: defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of the announcement by Jan du Plessis of his intention to take duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Company or any up the role of Chairman of Rio Tinto p. l. c: such associated company.
an updated role profile identifying the skills required for the Retirement by rotation and reappointment role of Chairman: Directors are submitted for reappointment at regular intervals by application of the Companys Articles of Association.
These require that the recruitment and appointment to the Board as a Nonat each Annual General Meeting, all Directors shall retire from office Executive Director of Richard Burrows and his subsequent by rotation who held office at the time of each of the two preceding appointment as Chairman on Jan du Plessis retirement: Annual General Meetings and who at either of those preceding Annual continuing measures to refresh the Board, including further General Meetings : 1 did not previously retire by rotation, or 2 were non-executive appointments: reappointed following his her appointment as an additional Director or to fill a vacancy.
If the number of Directors retiring in this way is succession planning for the Executive Directors and members less than one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by of the Management Board: and rotation or if their number is not three or a multiple of three, then changes in the composition of the Management Board.
additional Directors shall retire by rotation provided that a number not exceeding one-third shall retire from office.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, the Directors In 2009, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness as part of the Board to retire by rotation will be those who have been in office the longest evaluation process.
It concluded that it continues to operate effectively since their appointment or last reappointment.
and, in particular, that early discussions around succession planning have helped by setting the context before decisions on timing and The Board has progressively refreshed its membership over a number candidates are required.
The Committee identified a need for of years.
In this context, Non-Executive Directors who serve for a total additional non-executive appointments.
of more than six years are subject to a particularly rigorous review, and additional service after that time is reviewed annually.
This was done in Terms of appointment to the Board the case of Ana Maria Llopis, given that she has been a Non-Executive The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
Details of the Companys In accordance with the Articles of Association, and further to policy on Executive Directors service contracts and the terms of recommendations made by the Nominations Committee to the appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Board, the Directors named below will retire from the Board at the Remuneration report.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment: Directors interests and indemnities Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, Ana Maria Llopis remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of the Christine Morin-Postel Company including interests in share options and deferred shares Anthony Ruys as at 31 December 2009 are given in the Remuneration report.
No In addition, Richard Burrows, having been appointed as a Director on Director had any material interest in a contract of significance other 1 September 2009, will also retire from the Board at the forthcoming than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself for during the year.
Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive Director, and subsequently as Chairman, Richard Burrows disclosed to the Board that he is a director of Rentokil Initial plc.
Although this gives rise to no current conflict of interest, the potential situational conflict was reviewed by the Board and approved in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 77
