47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The corporate governance section, together with the remuneration Information is provided in a timely and regular manner to directors report, details how the Company has applied the principles set out for all meetings to enable them to exercise their judgement in the in Section 1 of the Combined Code and includes additional disclosures discharge of their duties.
In addition other senior executives attend as to how the Company has complied with the detailed provisions certain board meetings to make presentations on potential of the Code.
acquisitions and to discuss the results and strategies of their businesses.
The directors believe that during the year they have complied in full with the provisions of the Combined Code.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board Directors procedures and applicable rules are observed.
There is a procedure Composition of the board to enable the directors to obtain independent professional advice in The Company is headed by an experienced board of directors respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
This facility extends consisting of a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors to the members of audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
including the Group Chief Executive Officer and four independent The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers.
There is a clear division between the roles and responsibilities of the The members of the board, together with their biographical details, Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman are shown on pages 42 and 43. is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring effective Board meetings communication with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive Officer The board meets six times a year and at other times as appropriate is responsible for leading and managing the business.
including a separate meeting to focus on the strategic review.
To support the principles of good corporate governance, the board The following table sets out the number of meetings of the board manages the Group through board meetings and a number of and its committees during the year ended 31 March 2009 and committees, each of which has terms of reference and meets attendance by directors at those meetings: regularly.
The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available on the Groups website, Audit Remuneration www.
The minutes of each of the committees are made Board committee committee available to all directors and the board receives an update from each Charles Gregson 6 of the committees chairman following the committee meeting.
Michael Spencer 6 Senior independent director Matthew Lester 6 James McNulty is the senior independent director and provides an additional contact point for shareholders if the normal contact John Nixon 6 channels are inappropriate.
Mark Yallop 6 Independence of directors Nicholas Cosh 6 4 4 With the exception of the Chairman, all the non-executive directors James McNulty 6 4 4 are independent of management and considered by the board to be free from any business or other relationships which could interfere William Nabarro 6 4 4 with the exercise of their independence.
David Puth 6 4 4 Board nominations are recommended to the board by the nomination Total number of meetings 6 4 4 committee under its terms of reference.
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys articles Role of the board of association, all directors are subject to re-appointment by The board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment and, decision and approval which include: subsequently, must seek re-election at least once every three years.
the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: acquisitions, disposals and major investments: the Groups annual and half-year reports: any significant change in accounting policies or practices: any interim dividend and recommendation of the final dividend: the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: any changes to the Companys capital structure or its status as a listed company: risk management strategy: and treasury policy.
48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Conflicts of interest In attendance at such meetings, by invitation only, are the Chairman, In line with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association were Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance Director, the global amended at the 2008 annual general meeting to allow the board to head of risk, the group general counsel, Ernst & Young as internal authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose auditor and representatives from the external auditors.
The chairman such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a of the audit committee also maintains contact with those attendees conflict of interest can be made only by independent directors those throughout the year.
At the end of at least two of the committee who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In making such meetings each year representatives from Ernst & Young, as internal a decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good faith auditor, and the external auditors are given the opportunity to raise will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
A process has any issues, in private, without management being present.
been established whereby actual and potential conflicts are regularly Role of the audit committee reviewed and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to Under its terms of reference, the audit committee is responsible for: the appointment of any new director or if a new conflict arises.
During 2008 09 this procedure operated effectively.
monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: Induction and continuing professional development reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk New directors to the board are provided with appropriate training and management systems: briefings which take into account their individual qualifications and assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the experience.
All directors receive, during their term of office, regular external auditors: briefings on changes and developments in the Groups business and legislative and regulatory changes which are relevant to the Group.
developing and implementing policies on the engagement of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services: Board evaluation making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment During the year the board evaluated its performance and that of its and removal of the external auditors and approving their committees and individual directors.
This was done by way of a remuneration and terms of engagement: questionnaire which was completed by each director to evaluate monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal effectiveness and accountability and by individual meetings with the audit function: and Chairman.
The collective results were then discussed by the board reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise with actions agreed.
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial The board has considered and agreed that each of Michael Spencer reporting or other matters.
and Mark Yallop, who are standing for re-election at the annual Activities general meeting, continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate During the year the committee considered: commitment to his role.
the annual and half-year financial statements with particular focus Audit committee on the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or Members judgemental matters identified during the audit: Nicholas Cosh FCA chairman the audit plan for the full and half year: James McNulty developments in accounting standards and financial reporting William Nabarro and their likely impact on the Groups financial statements with David Puth particular regard to the market conditions experienced during All the audit committee members are independent non-executive this period: directors.
The board has satisfied itself that the chairman of the audit audit fees and terms of engagement: committee, and the committee collectively, have recent and relevant all proposed non-audit assignments undertaken by the auditors financial experience due to the senior positions they hold or held in with fees in excess of 50,000: other public companies, to enable the committee to function reports on the activities of the internal audit function, including the effectively and to discharge its responsibilities.
results of internal audits: Appointments to the committee are made by the board on the the annual internal audit plan: recommendation of the Groups nomination committee following internal and external audit: consultation with the chairman of the audit committee.
presentations from the global head of risk: The committee meets four times a year with meetings coinciding with distributable reserve and regulatory capital planning: the start of the external audit cycle, the financial year end and the post acquisition reviews: and publication of the annual and half-yearly reports.
49 Evaluation of external auditors During the year John Nixon was appointed as an executive director.
During the financial year, the committee reviewed and approved the At the time of his appointment in May 2008 he was, and continues proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2008 09 audit to be, the Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Electronic Broking with and recommended to the board that it proposes to shareholders that additional responsibility for the information business and strategic  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups external acquisitions.
This appointment was made as part of the succession auditor for 2009 10. planning for directors and other senior managers.
The committee also monitored the balance of audit and non-audit No other matters were considered by the committee during the year.
fees to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the external Other committees auditors is maintained.
During the year,  LLP There are two further board committees, group risk and finance, was the main provider of external advice but their work was limited to which report directly to the board of the Company, but whose specific areas and the services of other firms were used on an ongoing memberships do not include non-executive directors.
Any proposed non-audit assignments, with fees in excess of 50,000, are subject to the committees prior review and approval.
Group risk committee The committee is chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer and As part of its consideration of the annual financial statements, the includes the Group Finance Director, the global head of risk, the group committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors have general counsel, the group financial controller, the chief executive remained independent of the Group during the financial year and officers and the chief operating officers of London and EMEA, the continued to do so to the date of this report.
The committee also Americas and electronic broking, the chief executive officer of Asia received details from  LLP of its own Pacific and the regional heads of risk for EMEA and the Americas.
independence procedures and confirmation that, in its opinion, it remained independent throughout the year.
The terms of reference are approved by the board and the committee meets at least six times a year.
The minutes of the meetings are Following the completion of the Group audit for 2007 08, the circulated together with the committee papers to all members committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of the external of the board.
audit process and the qualification, expertise and resources of the external auditors.
The assessment of the effectiveness of the external The committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups risk audit process for 2008 09 will be conducted in June 2009. management framework, risk appetite, risk strategy and policies are appropriate to the activities of the Group.
The committee reviews the Internal control Groups risk exposures and ensures adherence to Group risk policy Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of particularly in relation to credit, market and operational risk.
internal control with the board being responsible for reviewing its effectiveness.
Details of the steps taken by the committee to review It is the boards responsibility to determine the Groups risk appetite the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are set out and identify, monitor and assess the significant risks the Group may be in the business review on page 33. exposed to.
The committee is responsible for developing procedures for managing risk in line with board approved polices and limits.
Remuneration committee This includes establishing and maintaining an adequate, sound and The remuneration report is set out on pages 51 to 56. appropriate internal control structure, evaluating its effectiveness and Nomination committee promptly identifying material weaknesses and taking corrective steps.
Members William Nabarro chairman Nicholas Cosh Charles Gregson James McNulty Michael Spencer The committee recommends to the board appointments for the roles of Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, executive and non-executive directors.
50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Finance committee Annual general meeting The committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and includes The notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders at the Group Chief Operating Officer, the group financial controller, least 20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes the global head of risk, the group tax director, the director of treasury, for and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, are the deputy treasurer and the head of corporate communications.
made available after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The terms of reference are approved by the board and the committee Accountability and audit meets at least six times a year.
The minutes of the meetings are The directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing circulated together with the committee papers to all members the Annual Report is set out in the directors report on page 46 and of the board.
the independent auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is detailed on page 57.
The committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the board in relation to matters affecting the By order of the board structure, financing, tax and treasury aspects of the Group and to Deborah Abrehart ensure compliance with board approved financing, treasury and Group Company Secretary tax policies.
Relations and dialogue with shareholders The board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group and is very much aware of the importance of maintaining good relations and communications with all its shareholders.
The annual and half-year financial statements, together with the interim management statements and Stock Exchange announcements, are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
com, as soon as they are released.
Major shareholder and analysts presentations are also made available.
The board recognises that the annual general meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive information on the Groups business performance and to question senior management on any business matter.
All the directors attended the 2008 annual general meeting.
The Group has established a programme of communication with its institutional investors and analysts.
At the time of the announcement of the full and half-year results, presentations are made to analysts, the press and institutional investors.
In addition, there are regular meetings during the year subject to relevant regulatory constraints with analysts and investors to update them on developments in the Groups strategy and performance.
