IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 34 Corporate Governance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The number of full board meetings and committee meetings attended by each of the directors as members of each committee during the year was as set out below.
In each case the first figure indicates the number of meetings attended and the second figure indicates the maximum number of meetings during the year for which each individual was a director or committee member.
Full board Nomination Audit Remuneration meetings Committee Committee Committee Jonathan Davie Chairman 7 7 3 4 Tim Howkins Chief Executive 7 7 Steve Clutton 7 7 Peter Hetherington 7 7 Andrew MacKay 6 7 Sir Alan Budd 7 7 4 4 3 4 Martin Jackson 6 7 4 4 3 4 Nat le Roux 6 7 Robert Lucas 7 7 Roger Yates 7 7 4 4 4 4 Evaluation of the Boards performance As mentioned on page 29, an independent evaluation of the Boards performance was carried out by ICSAs board evaluation team.
The evaluation took place in May and June this year and the final report was submitted to the Board in July.
The evaluation consisted of individual interviews with each director and the preparation of a final report.
Review of the Audit Committees performance During the year the Audit Committee reviewed its performance.
The review was carried out using the Audit Committee Institutes evaluation checklist and a discussion of the results by the Committee took place at a meeting in May 2009.
The results were reported to the Board in May 2009. Review of the Remuneration Committees performance During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed its performance.
The review consisted of all members completing an evaluation questionnaire and a discussion of the results by the Committee took place at a meeting in May 2009.
The results were reported to the Board in May 2009.
Directors subject to re-election In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the following directors retire, and being eligible, offer themselves for reelection at the next annual general meeting: Sir Alan Budd, Roger Yates and Martin Jackson.
Sir Alan Budd has indicated his intention to stand down from the Board once a suitable replacement independent director has been appointed to the Board.
Sir Alans replacement will offer him herself for election at the AGM following his her appointment.
This is in addition to the recruitment of an additional independent non-executive referred to on page 29.
