IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate Governance 29 Corporate Governance The Board recently commissioned the board evaluation team of Statement by the directors in the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA to carry out a thorough evaluation of the performance of the compliance with the Combined Code Board.
ICSAs board evaluation report the report has found that The Board is satisfied that the Group complied with the the performance of the Board is towards the upper quartile of provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance, public company boards generally.
It acknowledged that issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008, for the the Group has a Board whose members appear well qualified whole year, with the exception that the Group was not compliant and appropriate to manage the shareholders interests, and with paragraph A3.2 throughout the year.
the team recognised the value of having experienced nonParagraph A3.2 of the Combined Code requires that at least half executives on the Board during times of turbulent economic and of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent nonmarket conditions.
The Board is currently comprised of four Nevertheless the report also recommended that the Board executive directors and four non-executive directors excluding take heed of institutional investors who were concerned with the Deputy Chairman and the Chairman.
the Groups non-compliance with A3.2 of the Combined Code The Deputy Chairman, Nat le Roux is considered a nonby appointing an additional independent non-executive independent director as he is a former Chief Executive of the director.
Notwithstanding the Boards stance that the three Group.
The Board considers the value he brings with independent non-executive directors are of sufficient calibre and 17 years experience in the uniquely specialised market of number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards spread betting and retail contracts for difference justifies his decision making, the Board has decided to recruit an additional position on the Board and is in the best interests of the Group independent director later in the financial year after first seeking and the shareholders.
a replacement for Sir Alan Budd, who has indicated to the Board his intention to retire.
Robert Lucas, is considered to be a non-independent nonexecutive director as he represents funds managed or advised by Brief biographies of the directors appear on pages 12 and 13.
CVC Capital Partners Limited and associates CVC, a substantial shareholder, holding 8.4% of the ordinary share capital of the company at 31 May 2009 2008: 7.7%.
Robert has been involved with the IG Group since 2003 and consequently has a detailed knowledge of the company and its businesses.
He is valued for his challenging participation at Board meetings, and his deep private equity experience is highly regarded by the independent non-executive directors.
On balance weighing up all the considerations and the best interests of the shareholders the Board considers that Roberts presence on the Board is a positive asset to the IG Group.
