qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 52 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report governance continued Board of Directors and senior management appointed Group Director of Engineering and Platform Technology.
In July 2006, Mr Webber was appointed Group Director of Strategic Project Delivery.
continued Mr Webber was Managing Director of Amstrad Limited, our subsidiary, from Barney Francis joined us in April 1999 as a Producer.
In July 2009, he was January 2008 to June 2009. appointed Managing Director, Sky Sports in place of Vic Wakeling, who stepped down from the role on 30 June 2009.
There is no arrangement or understanding between any of the above listed persons and any other person pursuant to which he or she was elected as a Dave Gormley joined us in March 1995 as Assistant Company Secretary and was Director or Senior Executive.
appointed as Group Company Secretary in November 1997.
Employees Didier Lebrat joined us in December 2006 as Chief Technology officer.
This role The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including includes overall responsibility for the Information Technology, Network temporary employees employed by us during the previous three scal years Infrastructure and Broadcast Technology, and Customer and Interactive was as follows: Technology teams.
2009 2008 2007 Graham McWilliam joined us in April 2000 as Strategic Planning Manager.
In number number number 2003, he was appointed Deputy Head of Strategy and in 2006, Director of Channels and services 2,628 2,624 2,472 Corporate Communications and Policy.
In March 2008, Mr McWilliam was Customer service, sales and appointed as our Group Director of Corporate Affairs.
This role includes marketing 8,671 7,918 7,591 responsibility for our Corporate Communications, Policy and Public Affairs, Transmission and technology 2,276 1,943 1,560 Internal Communications, and Bigger Picture activities.
Management and administration 1,347 1,660 1,464 William Mellis joined us in September 2004 as Director of Acquisition 14,922 14,145 13,087 responsible for new customer sales.
In February 2006, Mr Mellis became Director of Customer Acquisition and Retention, adding responsibility for Corporate governance report marketing to and retaining our customers.
In May 2008 Mr Mellis was appointed The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Deputy Managing Director, Marketing for the Customer Group and in June 2009, governance in its management of the Group and when accounting to he became Group Director of Business Performance.
This role includes overall shareholders.
The management of the Company values an effective long-term responsibility for enabling the organisation to drive forward a number of outlook and sees itself as responsible to the wider range of stakeholders, whilst important cross-functional initiatives that will help transform our future being accountable for the pursuit of its objectives for the benefit of the business performance.
David Rowe joined us in July 2006 as Managing Director, Enterprise Business This section of the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the and is responsible for our business-to-business services across both television Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate and telecoms.
Mr Rowe was CEO of Easynet Group plc until it became part of Sky Governance 2008 Combined Code which is publicly available on the Financial in January 2006.
In November 2006, Mr Rowes role was expanded to include Reporting Councils website www.
Throughout the year ended 30 overall responsibility for Sky Bet.
June 2009, the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Brian Sullivan joined us in February 1996 as Subscriber Marketing Manager and held a succession of roles across products, sales and marketing until 2006.
In The Company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Share ADSs listed November 2006, Mr Sullivan was appointed as Managing Director, Customer on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant Group with responsibility for marketing strategy, product development and ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the NYSEs management, sales, retention, customer service, eld operations, supply chain corporate governance listing standards.
Furthermore, the Company must comply and overall customer growth, across our residential television, broadband and fully with the provisions of the NYSE listing standards which relate to the telephony businesses.
composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
These provisions also incorporate certain rules concerning audit committees Sophie Turner Laing joined us in March 2003 as Director of Film Channels & implemented by the SEC and the NYSE under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In 2004, she was appointed Deputy Managing Director, Sky Channels and Services.
In March 2008, she was appointed Managing Director, The Company has reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believes that its Entertainment with overall responsibility for the multi-platform content strategy corporate governance practices are consistent with the standards, with the for Skys wholly-owned entertainment channels.
In July 2009, Ms Turner Laings following exception.
The standards state that companies must have a role was expanded to include overall responsibility for Sky News.
nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors.
The Companys Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is Vic Wakeling joined us in 1991 as Head of Football, taking over as Head of Sport made up of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
In August 1998, he was appointed Managing Director, Sky Sports and in December 2006 his role was expanded to include overall responsibility for Sky News.
Mr Wakeling stepped down as Managing Director, Corporate policies Sky Sports and Sky News on 30 June 2009 and Barney Francis was appointed The policies of the Group aim to enhance and maintain risk management, and Managing Director, Sky Sports in his place, while Sophie Turner Laing assumed through this, safeguard the efficiency and effectiveness of the Group.
Other responsibility for Sky News.
policies are committed to improving equality in the workplace, share dealing, work practices on and off-site, and social arrangements.
Copies are readily Alun Webber joined us in 1995 and was part of the core team which launched available to all staff on the Company intranet.
Sky Digital and established the Sky Interactive venture.
In April 2002, he was 52 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1060 p50-68.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 53 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Since 2003, the Company has adopted a Code of Ethics which applies to the The Chief Executive officer Companys CEO and CFO, who also serves as the principal accounting officer.
The The CEO is responsible for the daily operation of the Company, advancing longfull text of the Code of Ethics is incorporated by reference to the Annual Report term shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is accountable on Form 20-F of the Company for the scal year ended 30 June 2003 led with and responsible to the Board for the management and operation of the Company.
He is also involved in the management of the social and environmental responsibilities of the Company.
The duties of the CEO include the following: The Board to be responsible and accountable to the Board for the management and The Board currently comprises fourteen Directors, made up of two Executive operation of the Group: Directors and twelve Non-Executive Directors.
A majority of eight Non-Executive to prepare and implement plans and programmes for the attainment of Directors are determined to be independent in compliance with the Combined approved objectives and to recommend such plans and programmes to the Code.
They bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the Groups Board as appropriate: affairs, and carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent to provide leadership in the Groups commitment to attaining high business Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element and a foundation standards generally: for good corporate governance.
Short biographies of each of the Directors are to create the conditions within the Group for the efficient operation of all set out on pages 50 to 51.
The table on page 50 identies those Directors who business units: are, in the view of the Board, independent within the meaning of the Combined to establish and maintain relationships with shareholders and potential Code.
Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each board member shareholders, and major external bodies: receives and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that may affect to keep the Board informed on all matters of material importance: and independence according to the Combined Code, NYSE Corporate Governance to chair meetings of the Executive Committee.
Rules and Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in ascertaining whether a director is independent in character and judgment, and Senior Independent Director whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or The Board has appointed one Non-Executive Director, Nicholas Ferguson, to act could appear to affect, the directors judgment.
The Senior Independent Director meets with institutional shareholders and representative bodies throughout the year and is The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively available to assist shareholders in resolving concerns should alternative accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Company maintains a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy which meets defence costs when the Director is not proved to have acted fraudulently.
Non-Executive Directors The dates on which the Non-Executive Directors initial service agreements Executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 letters of appointment commenced and current expiry dates are as follows: company, but are allowed to take up one external non-executive FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payments in respect of such appointments.
Expiry date of current Commencement date letter of appointment The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and have been so since the iii David DeVoe 15 December 1994 23 October 2009 Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994. iii David Evans 21 September 2001 22 October 2010 ii Nicholas Ferguson 15 June 2004 23 October 2009 The full schedule of matters reserved for decision making by the Board, can be ii Andrew Higginson 1 September 2004 23 October 2009 found on the Companys corporate website at www.
iii Allan Leighton 15 October 1999 23 October 2009 i Tom Mockridge 10 February 2009 23 October 2009 The Chairman James Murdoch 7 December 2007 October 2011 The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its ii Jacques Nasser 8 November 2002 23 October 2009 effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
This includes ii Dame Gail Rebuck 8 November 2002 23 October 2009 ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the Directors receive accurate, timely Daniel Rimer 7 April 2008 October 2011 and clear information.
The duties of the Chairman include the following: iii Arthur Siskind 19 November 1991 23 October 2009 Lord Wilson of Dinton 13 February 2003 October 2011 to encourage and ensure effective communication with shareholders, and ensure shareholder views are communicated to the Board as a whole: These letters of appointment will expire on the day of the Companys AGM in either to facilitate a structure to allow the effective contribution of all Directors, and 2010 or 2011.
The date of the AGM in 2011 has yet to be agreed.
of non-executive Directors in particular: to create an environment which engenders constructive relations between All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and reappointment by shareholders in executive and non-executive Directors: accordance with the Companys current Articles of Association see Shareholder information.
to organise the business of the Board so that it can be carried out effectively and efficiently: Notes: to lead the Board in discussions regarding the Companys strategy and in the i Tom Mockridge retires and offers himself for reappointment by shareholders in achievement of its objectives: accordance with the Companys Articles of Association at the Companys next AGM to to ensure Board committees are properly established, composed and be held on 23 October 2009. operated: and ii Non-Executive Directors retiring by rotation and offering themselves for to enhance the Companys public standing and image overall.
reappointment by shareholders at the Companys next AGM to be held on 23 October 2009. iii David DeVoe, Allan Leighton and Arthur Siskind are subject to annual reappointment by shareholders in accordance with requirement A.
7.2. of the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 53 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1060 p50-68.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 54 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report governance continued Corporate governance report In accordance with good practice, the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Board held separate meetings during the year.
continued Combined Code as they have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than Board role nine years.
David Evans will have served as a Non-Executive Director for nine A schedule of matters reserved for the full Boards determination and or years in September 2010 and will therefore be subject to annual reappointment approval is in place, which includes: with effect from the Companys AGM in 2010. approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: Jeremy Darroch will be subject to retirement by rotation and reappointment by a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of the Group: shareholders at the Companys AGM in October 2010.
In accordance with the approval of the interim and final results: Companys current Articles of Association, one-third of the Directors must retire approval of any dividend policy: by rotation.
Therefore, assuming that the Board continues to comprise fourteen changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including reductions of Directors, four Directors will be required to retire by rotation at the Companys capital and share buy-backs: AGM in 2010 in addition to those then subject to annual reappointment.
the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any Accordingly, the remaining Directors to retire by rotation in 2010 will be series of related commitments or arrangements which, whether budgeted or selected by drawing lots from those Directors who would otherwise be due to unbudgeted, involves or could reasonably involve, the payment or receipt by retire by rotation at the AGM of the Company to be held in 2011, one of whom is the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 100 million in aggregate Andrew Grifth.
value: the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain a notice period.
series of related commitments or arrangements with News Corporation, any The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys of its subsidiaries, or a related party which involves, or could reasonably registered ofce address during normal business hours.
involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 25 million in aggregate value: The Company Secretary approval of resolutions to be put forward to shareholders at a general The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors and is responsible for meeting: ensuring the Board is supplied with all necessary information in a reliable, changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, following, if timely manner.
The Company Secretary ensures good communication between applicable, recommendations from any committee to which the Board the Board, Board committees and senior management.
He facilitates Directors delegates consideration of such issues: induction and training.
appointment and removal of the Chairman of the Board and the CEO: and determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Board Practices The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year to review appropriate The Board has also delegated specic responsibilities to Board committees, strategic, operational and financial matters as required.
During the financial notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance and Nominations and year, one of these meetings was held over two days when the Board met to The Bigger Picture committees, as set out below.
Directors receive Board and review the future strategy and direction of the Group.
committee papers several days in advance of Board and committee meetings.
In addition, the Board members have access to external professional advice at the Attendance of the current Directors at Board and committee meetings during Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors serve for an initial term of three the year is set out in the table below: years, subject to reappointment by shareholders following appointment, subsequent reappointment by shareholders, and Companies Act provisions Corporate relating to the removal of Directors.
In addition, reappointment for a further Governance and term is not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
All of the Directors are Board Audit Remuneration Nominations required to retire and offer themselves for reappointment at least once in every Number of meetings held in year 6 5 5 4 three years.
Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years Director on the Board are subject to annual reappointment in accordance with the James Murdoch, Chairman 6 Combined Code.
Jeremy Darroch, CEO 6 Andrew Grifth, CFO 6 A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow David DeVoe 5 prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by the CEO and i David Evans 6 5 comprises the CFO and other Senior Executives from within the Group.
i ii Nicholas Ferguson 6 5 4 iii Andrew Higginson 43 Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive an induction iii Allan Leighton 65 tailored to their individual requirements.
The induction process involves a Tom Mockridge 2 meeting with all of the Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
i Jacques Nasser 5 4 This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the iii Dame Gail Rebuck 65 business performance.
The Directors are also provided with copies of the DanielRimer 6 Companys corporate governance practices and procedures.
ii Arthur Siskind 6 4 ii Lord Wilson of Dinton 5 4 Directors regularly receive additional information from the Company between Chase Carey 2 Board meetings, including a monthly report updating the Directors on the Lord Rothschild 2 1 performance of the Group.
i Remuneration Committee member Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues are ii Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee member arranged.
For example, during the year the Board received a brieng on the iii Audit Committee member 54 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1060 p50-68.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 55 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% new provisions relating to Directors conicts of interest which became effective Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee on 1 October 2008.
The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Wilson of Dinton and its other members are Nicholas Ferguson and Arthur During the year, the Directors carried out a full evaluation of the performance of Siskind.
The majority of the members of the committee are Independent the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation consists of Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the Combined Code.
The Corporate each Director meeting individually with the Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee met four times during the year and the Governance and Nominations Committee.
The evaluation confirmed that the Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Its main duties include: Board was satisfied with the Boards overall performance.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet separately without the Chairman and Executive Directors the identication and nomination, for approval by the Board, of candidates to present to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
ll Board vacancies as they arise: the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to the Board, taking Following this years review, the Corporate Governance and Nominations into consideration the present balance of skills, knowledge and experience on Committee and Board have confirmed that all Directors standing for the Board: reappointment at the forthcoming AGM continue to perform effectively and the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
recommend any changes to the Board or succession planning: the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out clearly what is Tom Mockridge offers himself for reappointment at the 2009 AGM in accordance expected of new appointees to the Board, in terms of time commitment, term with the Companys Articles of Association.
Nicholas Ferguson, Andrew of ofce and committee service as well as their duties and liabilities as a Higginson, Jacques Nasser and Dame Gail Rebuck retire from the Board by Director, including details of the Companys corporate governance policies rotation, and being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at this AGM.
and directors and ofcers liability insurance cover: and David DeVoe, Allan Leighton and Arthur Siskind are subject to annual the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable Corporate reappointment in accordance with requirement A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, as Governance Codes and other similar requirements.
they have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than nine years.
On 10 February 2009 Chase Carey resigned as a Non-Executive Director of the Directors conicts of interest Company and Tom Mockridge was appointed as a NonExecutive Director of the The conicts of interest provisions introduced by the Companies Act 2006 came Company in his place.
Tom Mockridge was proposed as a Director by News into effect on 1 October 2008.
A survey of Board members interests and other Corporation to replace Chase Carey.
Mr Mockridge met with the Chairman of the appointments was carried out by the Corporate Governance and Nominations Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Senior Independent Committee during September 2008 and procedures for managing actual and Director and his appointment was subsequently approved by the Board.
potential conicts were recommended to and approved by the Board.
Should a director become aware that he or she, or his or her connected parties have an These changes were overseen by the Corporate Governance and Nominations interest in an existing or proposed transaction with the Company, that director Committee and were unanimously approved by the Board of Directors.
should notify the Company Secretary in writing or inform the Board at the next The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee led the evaluation of the Board meeting.
The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board that was completed during the year as discussed earlier in this report.
Board will continue to monitor and review potential conicts of interest on a regular basis.
The Committee also reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and recommended to the Board that there be no changes to the independent Board Committees status of the current Non-Executive Directors.
The table on page 50 clearly sets Terms of reference for the governance of the Board committees can be found on out those Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be the Companys corporate website.
The Boards criteria for determining whether a Non-Executive Director is independent are set out in the Memorandum on Corporate Remuneration Committee Governance which can be found on the Companys corporate website.
The The members of the Remuneration Committee are Nicholas Ferguson Committees review took into consideration the fact that Allan Leighton had Chairman, David Evans and Jacques Nasser, all of whom are Independent Nonserved on the Board for nine years in October 2008.
3.1. of the Executive Directors, in compliance with the Combined Code.
Combined Code suggests that serving more than nine years could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive Directors independence.
The Committee The Remuneration Committee has clearly dened terms of reference, meets at concluded that Mr Leighton continued to demonstrate the essential least twice a year, and takes advice from the CEO and independent consultants characteristics of independence expected by the Board and that there are no as appropriate in carrying out its work.
Following publication of the annual relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, report, meetings and round-table discussions are arranged between the his judgment.
7.2. of the Combined Code, Mr Remuneration Committee and institutional shareholders to discuss Leighton will be subject to annual reappointment by shareholders with effect remuneration policy and aspects of the Committees report on Directors from the Companys AGM in 2009. remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
The Bigger Picture Committee On 16 June 2009, the Board established The Bigger Picture Committee as a James Murdoch and David DeVoe have a standing invitation to attend meetings Committee of the Board.
The Bigger Picture Committee manages the Companys of the Remuneration Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as corporate responsibility and community engagement programme which the observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
Company has named The Bigger Picture.
The report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages 58 to 66.
In The Bigger Picture Committee is chaired by Dame Gail Rebuck, and its other accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the members include Lord Wilson of Dinton and James Murdoch.
The Bigger Picture Report on Directors remuneration will be put forward for an advisory Committee replaced the Bigger Picture Steering Group and is expected to meet shareholder vote at the AGM.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 55 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1060 p50-68.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 56 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report governance continued Corporate governance report News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, is a major shareholder in the Group.
The Audit Committee receives, on a quarterly basis, continued a schedule of all transactions between companies within the News no less that twice during the next scal year.
The Chairman will report regularly Corporation Group and the Group, and any other related party transactions, to the Board on its activities.
Its main duties include: showing all transactions which have been entered into during the year and which cumulatively exceed 100,000 in value: reviewing and approving the Bigger Picture strategy: Audit Committee approval is required for the entering into by the Group of a reviewing the reputational risk register and assigning clear roles and commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or responsibilities for ensuring effective mitigation of identied risks: arrangements with News Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or any other seeking external stakeholders views on the Bigger Picture strategy and related party which involves or could reasonably involve the payment or performance: receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not reviewing and approving the annual reporting of Bigger Picture activities: exceeding 25 million in aggregate value with News Corporation.
Any monitoring progress in achieving Bigger Picture objectives and key transaction in excess of 25 million in aggregate value must be submitted to performance indicators: the Audit Committee and, if approved by the Audit Committee, must also be ensuring the resources and skills are available to implement the Bigger submitted to the full Board for approval.
Picture strategy: and providing the Board with an overview of the social, environmental and ethical The Audit Committee does not include an Audit Committee Financial Expert as impacts of the Companys activities and how they are being managed.
such term is dened by the SEC rules.
The Audit Committee members have considerable financial and business experience and the Board considers that the An overview of the Companys corporate responsibility policies, activities and membership as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience Bigger Picture approach is provided on pages 23 to 25 of the directors report to discharge its functions.
In addition, the Board has determined that each review of the business.
member of the Audit Committee has sufficient accounting or related financial management expertise as required by the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules Audit Committee and Transparency Rules and the NYSE listing rules.
Accordingly, it is the opinion The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Independent Non-Executive of the Board not to formally designate a member as the Audit Committee Directors in compliance with the Combined Code, has clearly dened terms of financial expert.
reference as laid down by the Board.
The composition of the Audit Committee is currently Allan Leighton, Dame Gail Rebuck and Andrew Higginson.
Allan Internal control Leighton resigned as Chairman and Andrew Higginson assumed the role with The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the effect from 29 July 2009.
Allan Leighton remains a member of the committee Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing and there have been no other changes to the composition of the committee their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, and where possible during the year.
The CFO and representatives from the external auditor and the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide internal audit department attend meetings at the request of the Audit reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The CEO and other business and finance executives attend meetings An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant from time to time.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board risks faced by the Group has been established, in accordance with the guidance on its activities.
of the Turnbull Committee on internal control issued in September 1999 and David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to attend meetings of updated by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
This process has the Audit Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers only been in place for the year ended 30 June 2009 and up to the date on which the and in a non-voting capacity.
All three members of the Audit Committee are financial statements were approved.
independent for the purposes of the Combined Code and Rule 10A-3 b 1 under The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the the Exchange Act.
The members have wide ranging experience to bring to the operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management work of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met five times during the during the year and this review has been carried out for the year ended 30 June year.
Its duties include: 2009 and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, ventures.
The Audit Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the reappointment and removal of the external auditors and discussing with the Groups Director of Audit and Risk Management and the external auditors.
external auditors the nature, scope and fees for the external auditors work: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the approval, There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the annual or any amendment to, the quarterly, half year and annual financial budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by the Board.
statements of the Group: Performance is monitored against budget through weekly and monthly reporting reviewing and approving the Groups US Annual Report on Form 20-F prior to cycles.
Monthly reports on performance are provided to the Board and the Group its ling: reports to shareholders each quarter.
Each area of the Group carries out risk reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: assessments of its operations and ensures that the key risks are addressed.
reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: reviewing the Groups treasury policies: The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of recommending the appointment of the Groups Director of Internal Audit: the Groups systems of internal control and risk management to the Groups reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal audit function: operating management and to the Audit Committee.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: approving all non-audit services provided by the Groups external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy: monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: 56 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1060 p50-68.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 57 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Managements report on internal control over financial those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and reporting those services for which the specic approval of the Audit Committee is The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and required before the auditors are permitted to provide the service.
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as dened in Rule 13a-15 f under the Exchange Act.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms Internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, has required to be completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services inherent limitations.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective provided by the external auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee on a can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement quarterly basis.
Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of internal control For the year ended 30 June 2009, the Audit Committee has discussed the matter over financial reporting may vary over time.
of audit independence with Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditors, and has received and reviewed conrmation in writing that, in Deloitte LLPs professional Management, including the CEO and CFO, has conducted an evaluation to assess judgment, Deloitte LLP is independent within the meaning of all UK and US the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit 30 June 2009 based upon criteria set forth in the Internal Control-Integrated engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on their assessment, management concluded The Audit Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and that, as at 30 June 2009, the Groups internal control over financial reporting independence of Deloitte LLP was not in any way impaired by either the nature was effective.
of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year, the level of nonaudit fees charged, or any other facts or circumstances.
There were no services The audit reports set out within the Companys Annual Report led on provided during the year that were not either pre-approved by the Audit Form 20-F are issued in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Committee or for acceptable services up to the value of 50,000, approved by Company Accounting Oversight Board US.
These reports express unqualied the CFO with subsequent approval by the Audit Committee, in accordance with opinions on the consolidated financial statements of the Group as at 30 June the Groups policy.
2009 and 30 June 2008 and for the three years ended 30 June 2009 as well as on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at Communication with shareholders 30 June 2009.
Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses Disclosure controls and procedures email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems that are and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports led advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and the they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information Companys UK listing obligations and that such information is accumulated and section on pages 121 to 129 contains further details on electronic shareholder communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to communications together with more general information of interest to allow such timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
The Company has shareholders which is also included on the Companys corporate website.
The committee is chaired by the Company Secretary and its members consist of senior managers from group finance, legal The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with and investor relations.
It has responsibility for considering the materiality of shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group and the information including inside information and, on a timely basis, determination shareholders are understood.
of the disclosure and treatment of such information.
The committee also has responsibility for overseeing the process for the formal review of the contents of A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and the Companys Annual Report and ling on Form 20-F. analysts takes place each year.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year results The Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the announcement: conference calls are held with analysts and investors following participation of the Companys management, including the CEO and CFO, of the the announcement of the first quarter and third quarter results, and on effectiveness of the design and operation of these disclosure controls, occasion, following the announcement of the fourth quarter results, and procedures and systems at 30 June 2009.
Based on that evaluation, the CEO and presentations are made during the year to many existing or potential CFO of the Company have concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and shareholders.
During the year, various members of the Board, including the procedures are effective.
Senior Independent Director, met with institutional shareholders and representative bodies, reinforcing the continuation of open dialogue and Changes in internal controls discussion of strategy between the Board and its shareholders.
Non-Executive No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has occurred Directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major during the year ended 30 June 2009 that has materially affected, or is shareholders and are expected to attend if required.
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders to ask questions Use of external auditors of the Board.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and Companys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at non-audit services, which categorises such services between: the 2008 AGM were voted by way of an electronic poll.
This follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders those services which the auditors are not permitted to provide: British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 57 Annual Report 2009
