54 Corporate governance The Group recognises, and is committed to, the highest standards of The principal matters considered by the Board during the year corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009, included: the Group complied with the provisions of the 2006 Financial Reporting f the Group strategic plan, budget and financial resources: Council FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the FRC in June 2006, except for provision A.
3.2 which f review of the Compliance policies: provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should f regular review of the investment portfolio and any areas of concern: comprise independent Non Executive Directors.
The retirement of Paul Piper and the plans of the Group to appoint more Non Executive f communication of our financial results for the interim and year end: Directors during the year will bring the Group into full compliance with f review of current compensation structures: the Code.
Any new appointments will be referred to the Nominations Committee.
The composition of the Board is kept under regular review f independence of Non Executive Directors: and by the Nominations Committee.
f corporate responsibility initiatives and performance.
The Boards responsibilities and processes The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Executive Directors: The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the overall f the development and recommendation of strategic plans for management of the Group.
The Boards main roles are to provide consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term: leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed and to ensure f objectives and priorities established by the Board: and that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the f implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as Company to meet its objectives and thus increase shareholder value.
determined by the Board: monitoring of operating and financial There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, results against plans and budgets: monitoring the quality of the which include: investment process: and developing and implementing risk f approval of the Groups overall business strategy, planning management systems.
and annual budget: assessment of internal controls and risk management: The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive f approval of the Groups half year and annual financial statements The Chairman of the Board, John Manser, leads the Board in and dividend policy: the determination of its strategy and in achieving its objectives.
f presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Companys position and prospects to the shareholders through Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman the Chairmans statement, the Managing Directors review, the has no involvement in the day to day business of the Group.
Business review, the Financial review and the financial statements: The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non Executive Directors and ensures that there is effective communication with the f appointments to the Board and Executive Committee: Groups shareholders.
f capital expenditure decisions: and The Chief Executive, Tom Attwood, has direct charge of the Group on a day to day basis and is accountable to the Board for f changes in employee incentive schemes.
the financial and operational performance of the Group.
The Chief At each Board meeting there is a full financial and business review Executive has formed a committee called the Executive Committee which includes the comparison of performance to date against the to enable him to carry out the responsibilities delegated to him by Boards previously approved annual budget.
The Committee comprises the four Executive Directors.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack at The Committee meets on a regular basis to consider operational least five days prior to each meeting which incorporates a formal matters and the implementation of the Groups strategy with no one agenda together with supporting papers for items to be discussed Director being able to significantly affect the running of the Company at the meeting.
Further information is obtained by the Board from without consulting his colleagues.
the Executive Directors and other relevant members of senior management, as the Board, particularly its Non Executive Directors, considers appropriate.
55 Senior Independent Director Board performance The Board has appointed Justin Dowley as the Senior Independent In line with the requirements of the Combined Code, the Board Director, to whom, in accordance with the Combined Code, any reviews its own performance annually using a predetermined shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms template designed as a tool to facilitate the evaluation process.
for investor communication can be conveyed.
The assessment covers the functioning of the Board as a whole and includes a review of the effectiveness of the Board committees.
The Board considers the results of the performance evaluation when Board of Directors making its recommendations regarding the re election of Directors.
The Board does not consider it necessary to employ the services of an As at 31 March 2009, the Board comprised five Executive Directors external third party to conduct the evaluation process.
A review was Paul Piper resigned from the Board on 31 March 2009, an performed in July 2008 and the Board concluded that its performance independent Non Executive Chairman and four Non Executive and that of its Committees, Chairman and Directors were satisfactory.
Directors of whom three are independent.
The Non Executive Directors are as follows: Election and re election of Directors f John Manser was appointed a Non Executive Director in January 2001 and Non Executive Chairman in May 2001.
One third of the Directors retire by rotation each year in accordance f Tom Bartlam was appointed a Non Executive Director in with the Articles of Association and all Directors are re elected at least April 2005. once every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year must offer himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
John f Jean-Daniel Camus was appointed a Non Executive Director Manser offers himself for re election at the forthcoming Annual General in March 2007.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors and f Justin Dowley was appointed a Non Executive Director in terms of reference for the Committees are available for inspection at February 2006. the Companys registered office during normal business hours, until the close of the AGM.
f James Nelson was appointed a Non Executive Director in The Board recommends that John Manser should be re elected May 2001. to the Board because, based upon a formal performance evaluation The Non Executive Directors are considered to be of sufficient calibre during the year, his performance continues to be effective.
and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the decision All Directors have access to the advice and services of the making process.
Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice The Board meets at least six times a year with additional meetings at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board is supported in its decisions by three principal The table below shows the number of Board and committee committees, which are described below: meetings held during the year and the attendance record of Audit Committee individual Directors.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Justin Dowley, consists of three Audit Remuneration Nomination 2008: three independent Non Executive Directors, these being JeanBoard Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley and James Nelson.
Two Non Executive Directors, Tom Bartlam and John Manser, are not members of the Total meetings held 7 2 5 Audit Committee but are invited to attend the meetings.
The Executive Tom Attwood 6 2 Directors are not members of the Audit Committee but are invited to Tom Bartlam 7 3 attend.
Deloitte LLP, the Companys auditor, is also invited to attend Jean-Daniel Camus 6 2 4 and has direct access to committee members.
The Board is satisfied Justin Dowley 7 2 5 that the Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience as do other members of the Committee.
Christophe Evain 7 Philip Keller 6 4 John Manser 7 2 2 Francois fide Mitry 7 James Nelson 7 2 5 Paul Piper 7 Attended these meetings but is not on the Committee.
56 Corporate governance continued The Committee meets regularly, at least twice a year, and is Remuneration Committee responsible for: The Committee, chaired by James Nelson, consists of three 2008: three independent Non Executive Directors, these being Jean-Daniel f selecting and recommending the appointment of the external Camus, Justin Dowley and James Nelson.
Two Non Executive auditors to the Board, approving their terms of reference and fees: Directors, Tom Bartlam and John Manser, are not members of the f reviewing the performance of the external auditors and ensuring Remuneration Committee but are invited to attend the meetings.
appropriate rotation of audit partner: The Committee supports the Board in determining the level of remuneration of the Chairman and reviews the remuneration policy f acting as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and giving applicable to senior management.
Further details regarding input to the Boards review of the Companys internal control and remuneration policy and payments made can be found in the risk management systems and procedures: Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 58 to 64. f reviewing the independence of the external auditors and the Nominations Committee relationship between audit and non audit work performed by The Committee, chaired by John Manser, consists of four the external auditors.
Procedures are in place to ensure that all 2008: four independent Non Executive Directors, these being significant non audit work performed by the auditors is approved Jean-Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley, James Nelson and John Manser.
in advance by the Committee and they assess whether such The Committee is responsible for considering the composition of appointments impair, or appear to impair, the auditors judgement the Board to ensure that the balance of its membership as between or independence.
The Audit Committee also undertakes an annual executive and Non Executive Directors is appropriate.
Appointments evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of the of Executive and Non Executive Directors are made as necessary external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, as a result of discussions by the Committee and are subject to full taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory Board approval and election or re election at a general meeting of requirements.
The results of the evaluation were last reported to the shareholders.
An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte LLP is shown in note 10 on page 79: Relationships with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communication f reviewing the annual and interim accounts before they are with its shareholders, which it achieves through interim and annual presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues arising reports and the AGM.
At the Meeting the Chief Executive, Finance from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of disclosures: Director, the Chairman of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations compliance with applicable accounting and legal standards: Committees are available to answer shareholders questions.
issues regarding a significant element of judgement: and the The Board is willing to enter into a dialogue with institutional statements on internal controls and business risk assessment: and shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, subject f reviewing the provisioning policy for the investment portfolio on to its duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders and the a six monthly basis: and reviewing and approving the Companys dissemination of inside information.
The Board as a whole is kept whistleblowing policy.
fully informed of the views and concerns of the major shareholders.
When requested to do so, Non Executive Directors will attend During the year the Audit Committee: meetings with major shareholders.
f reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting disclosures comprised in the interim and annual financial statements of the Group and reviewed the scope of the external audit plan and audit findings: worked with the external auditors to identify a successor audit partner due to mandatory partner rotation: f evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: met with the external auditors in the absence of management: f reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group: and f reviewed the policy on handling allegations from whistleblowers.
57 Internal control The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys internal control and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout system and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system the year and that, up to the date of approval of the Directors report of control is in place to give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance and financial statements, the Board continues to apply the procedures that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded necessary to comply with the requirements of the Turnbull Committee properly and that material errors and irregularities are prevented or guidelines Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined would be detected within a timely period.
The key elements of this process are: Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Committees, f core values, Company standards and controls together comprise the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over appropriate the Companys high level principles and controls, with which all strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The Board has staff are expected to comply: put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of f manuals of procedures, compliance and policies applicable to all responsibility and delegation of authority.
business units: The Board annually considers and approves a strategic plan and budget.
In addition there are established procedures and processes in f the identification of the major business risks facing the Company place for the making of investments and the planning and controlling and the development of appropriate policies for the management of expenditure.
The Board also receives regular reports from the of those risks.
The Board recognises that the internal control Executive Committee on the Companys operational and financial system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of performance, measured against the annual budget as well as failure to achieve business objectives: regulatory and compliance matters.
The Company has in place f the employment of experienced and professional staff of the arrangements whereby employees may raise matters of concern in highest calibre both by recruitment and promotion to fulfil confidence about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting allotted responsibilities: or other matters.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, f strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive but has decided that because of the nature of the current internal Committee in the context of an agreed strategic framework.
control system and size of the Company it cannot be justified at A strategy paper and plan are produced annually to address the present.
The Board will review this decision next year.
The Board strategic challenges of the Group and these are approved by undertook a formal annual assessment of the risk management and the Board: control arrangements in March 2008 in order to form a view on the f a detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
comprehensive monthly reports covering actual and planned The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise performance are provided to the Board by the Groups effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to finance function: provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining f regular treasury reports are made to the Board which analyse strategies and policies for risk control, and management is responsible the funding requirements of the Company, track liquidity and for implementing such strategies and policies.
monitor the Companys compliance to its interest and exchange rate policies: f a compliance and legal function whose role is to monitor and report to the Board on the Companys regulatory compliance: f a well defined procedure governing the approval, monitoring and sale of investments incorporating appropriate levels of authority and post investment reviews: and f regular reports are made on the Companys fund management activities including new fundraising, conflicts of interest and portfolio performance.
Going concern statement Based upon the review of the Groups budgets and outline business plans for the next two years, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
