International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Policy Guernsey does not have its own corporate governance code and, as a Guernsey incorporated company, the Company is not required to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as revised by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
However, it is the Companys policy to comply with best practice on good corporate governance that is applicable to investment companies.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance issued in May 2007 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues which are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The Board considers that it is appropriate to report against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code.
Except as disclosed below, the Company complied throughout the year with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
Since all the Directors are non-executive, and in accordance with the AIC Code and the preamble to the Combined Code, the provisions of the Combined Code on the role of chief executive and, except in so far as they apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors remuneration, are not relevant to the Company and are not reported on further.
In view of the Boards non-executive nature and the requirement of the Articles of Incorporation that one third of Directors retire by rotation at least every three years, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term as recommended by principal 3 of the AIC Code.
Board Structure The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, whose biographies, on page 23 to page 26, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
The Chairman of the Board is an independent non-executive: the Board considers it unnecessary to appoint a senior independent Director.
Name Position Independent Date Appointed Keith Dorrian Non-Executive Chairman Yes 2 August 2006 Rupert Dorey Non-Executive Director Yes 2 August 2006 Giles Frost Non-Executive Director No 2 August 2006 Carol Goodwin Non-Executive Director Yes 19 February 2007 John Whittle Non-Executive Director Yes 6 August 2009 32 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr Dorrian.
At least one third of the Directors retire by rotation at every AGM with the exception of Mr Frost, who is not considered independent being an employee of Amber Infrastructure Limited, which is an associated company of the Companys Investment Advisor, Amber Fund Management Limited.
Mr Frost will therefore be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
All other Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Companys investment advisor.
Any Directors appointed to the Board since the previous AGM also retire and stand for re-election.
The Board will meet at least four times a year and in addition there is regular contact between the Board, the Investment Advisor and the Administrator and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Advisor, the Company Secretary and other advisors in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
An evaluation of the performance of individual Directors and the Chairman was carried out during the year which concluded that the Board is performing satisfactorily in the six areas reviewed: Board composition and meeting process, Board information, training, Board dynamics, Board accountability and effectiveness and an evaluation of the Chairman.
New Directors receive an induction from the Investment Advisor on joining the Board, and all Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
At least one third of the Independent Directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting whilst the non independent Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 3 June 2010, a resolution will be proposed for the re-election of Mr Frost as a non independent Director and for re-election of both Mr Dorey and Mr Whittle as independent directors.
The Company has no executive directors or employees.
All matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing and corporate governance procedures are reserved for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
Meeting Attendance Records The table below lists Directors attendance at meetings during the year, to the date of this report.
Directors Quarterly Ad-hoc Audit Committee Independent Other Board Board max 4 Committee Committee max 5 max 7 max 5 max 3 K Dorrian 5 7 4 5 3 R Dorey 5 7 4 5 1 1 G Frost 5 2 n a n a 1 C Goodwin 5 7 4 5 1 J Whittle 3 max 3 3 max 3 2 max 2 n a 3 1 Mr Frost is not a member of the Audit Committee.
33 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Committees of the Board The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a nomination or remuneration committee as, being comprised wholly of non-executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
Directors Duties and Responsibilities The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: Statutory obligations and public disclosure Approval of investment decisions Strategic matters and financial reporting Oversight of management and personnel matters Risk assessment and management, including reporting, monitoring, governance and control Other matters having material effects on the Company These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to clearly demonstrate the seriousness with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
The Company has no Executive Directors or employees.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, Amber Fund Management Limited acts as Investment Advisor to the Company to review and monitor investments and advise the Company in relation to strategic management of the investment portfolio.
In addition, Amber Fund Management Limited is responsible for the discretionary investment management of the Groups investment portfolio under the terms of the Operating Agreement.
Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as Administrator and Company Secretary and is responsible to the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the Rules and Regulations of Guernsey Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, money laundering regulation and observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with applicable rules and regulations of Guernsey Law, Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis and the Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Insurance cover throughout the period.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control and Financial Reporting The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Companys system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
34 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors review all controls including operations, compliance and risk management.
The key procedures which have been established to provide internal control are: Investment advisory services are provided by Amber Fund Management Limited AFML.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall investment policy and monitors the action of the Investment Advisor and Operator at regular Board meetings.
The Board has also delegated administration and company secretarial services to Heritage International Fund Managers Limited Heritage : however it retains accountability for all functions it delegates.
The Board considers the process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Company on an on-going basis.
It ensures that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
In light of recent market volatility and economic turmoil, particular attention has been given to the effectiveness of controls to monitor liquidity risk, asset values, counterparty exposure and credit availability.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisers and appointments are made by the Board after due and careful consideration.
The Board monitors the ongoing performance of such agents and advisors.
AFML and Heritage maintain their own systems of internal control, on which they report to the Board.
The Company, in common with other investment companies, does not have an internal audit function.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but because of the internal control systems in place at AFML and Heritage, has decided to place reliance on their systems and internal control procedures.
The systems are designed to ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing the systems of internal control, regard is paid to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs being incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore that the systems of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
Relations with Shareholders The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Investment Advisor meets with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
Issues of concern can be addressed by any shareholder by writing to the Company at its registered address see page 1.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and the Investment Advisor of the Company.
35 International Public Partnerships Limited Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee comprises the independent non executive Directors and is chaired by Mr. R Dorey.
The Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report and Financial Statements, the system of internal controls and the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration.
It is also the forum through which the auditors report to the Board of Directors and Committee and will meet at least twice yearly.
The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors are appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to nonaudit fees.
Deloitte LLP provides ongoing tax advice when requested by the Company.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers Deloitte LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such nonaudit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
Following its assessment of the performance of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
The Board receives copies of the minutes of the Audit Committee Meetings.
The Audit Committee has met four times from the period 1 January 2009 to date.
Matters considered at these meetings include but were not limited to: review of the 2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements, review of the 2009 Half Year Financial Report, review of the audit plan and timetable for the preparation of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements, review of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 April 2010 36
