Risk and governance Corporate governance Introduction We are committed to promoting sustainable stakeholder con dence in our conduct as a business and as a corporate citizen.
While the board oversees the overall process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every employee of the group is responsible for acting in accordance with sound corporate governance practices.
In formulating our governance framework, we apply recognised corporate governance practices pragmatically so as to: Identify and mitigate signi cant risks, including reputational risk Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities Promote informed and sound decision making Enable effectiveness, ef ciency, responsibility and accountability Enhance the capital markets and other stakeholders perception of us Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance Secure trust and con dence of all stakeholders Protect our brand and reputation Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our financial position and actions Respond appropriately to changes in market conditions and the business environment Remain at the forefront of international corporate governance practices.
Our values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour and practices so as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength and conduct in order to promote and maintain trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Structures are designed to ensure that our values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continually re ne these structures and a written Statement of Values serves as our Code of Ethics.
We operate under a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure, and consider the corporate governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before adopting the stricter rule for the group.
All international business units operate in accordance with the above determined corporate governance recommendations, in addition to those of their jurisdiction, but with clear reference at all times to group values and culture.
Annual report 2009 169 Risk and governance Corporate governance Governance framework Our governance framework can be depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited - Board of directors DLC Nomination and Audit Committee Board Risk and Capital Directors Affairs Committee Committee DLC Remuneration Audit DLC Capital Executive Committee Sub-Committees Committee Risk Review Forum Audit and Compliance Group Credit Committee Implementation Forums Group Investment Committee Group Deal Forum Group Market Risk Forum Asset and Liability Committees Operational Risk Committees Forums Group Legal Risk Forums Internal Compliance Group Risk Management Audit Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities 170 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are in full support of and committed to complying with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the London Combined Code 2006 and the King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct King II, whereby all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
The board is of the opinion that Investec has complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in Section 1 of the London Combined Code 2006 as well as King II, during the period under review, excluding the independence of the Chairman, as outlined below.
3.1. and King II - Independence of the Chairman The Chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be independent.
At the time of his appointment and up to 2005, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients but excluded day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He was also included in various management incentive and share ownership schemes.
For these reasons, he is not considered by the board to be independent in accordance with the London Combined Code and King II.
However, since 2005, Hugh has distanced himself from executive responsibilities.
The opinion of the board regarding compliance with the Principles of Good Governance and Best Practice and King II is based on the practices below which were in operation during the year under review.
Financial reporting and going concern The directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and Investec Limited combined financial statements, accounting policies and the information contained in the Annual Report.
In undertaking this responsibility, the directors are supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks we face in preparing the financial and other information contained in this Annual Report.
This process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The process is implemented by management and independently monitored for effectiveness by the Audit, Risk and other sub-committees of the board, which are referred to below.
Our financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, taking into consideration: The groups strategy and prevailing market conditions and business environment Corporate governance practices Accounting policies adopted The desire to provide relevant and clear disclosures The nature and complexity of our business The risks we assume, and their management and mitigation Key business and control processes in operation The operation of board committee support structures Operational soundness Our credit rating and access to capital The needs of all our stakeholders.
The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the group, key processes in operation and speci c enquiries, that there are adequate resources to support the group as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Further information on our liquidity and capital position is provided on pages 134 to 143 and pages 150 to 161.
Board of directors Role and responsibilities The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership for the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risks to be assessed and managed.
Speci cally, it is responsible for the adoption of strategic plans, monitoring of operational performance and management, ensuring an effective risk management strategy, compliance with applicable legislation, upholding corporate governance standards and succession.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, setting the groups values and standards, promoting the highest standards of corporate governance, approving key policies and objectives, ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, understanding the key risks we face, determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate risk from materialising, including the approval of the terms of reference of key supporting board committees.
Annual report 2009 171 Risk and governance Corporate governance The board has fide ned the limits of delegated authority.
It is responsible for assessing and managing risk policies and philosophies, ensuring appropriate internal controls, overseeing major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, approving the establishment of businesses and approving the introduction of new products and services.
In ful lling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management in implementing the plans and strategies approved by the board.
The board monitors and evaluates managements progress on an ongoing basis.
Furthermore, directly or through its sub-committees, the board: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of our performance through a comprehensive system of financial and nonfinancial monitoring involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, regular review of forecasts and regular management strategic and operational updates Approves annual budgets, capital projections and business plans Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice Monitors our communication with all stakeholders and disclosures made Identi es and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control Ensures we adopt sustainable business practices, including our social and environmental activities Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity.
Composition, structure and process Membership In terms of the DLC arrangements, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are identical and the Investec group is managed as a uni ed economic enterprise.
At the end of the year under review, the board, excluding the Chairman, comprised four executive directors and eleven non-executive directors.
As set out below, the board concluded that the majority i. e. eight of the non-executive directors are independent in terms of the London Combined Code and King II.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 219 to 222.
The names of the directors, the year of their appointment, their independence status and whether they will retire and seek re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, are set out in the table below.
Date of appointment Independent Last Retiring Investec Investec elected and seeking plc Limited re-election in 2009 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer 26 Jun 02 6 Oct 86 No 2006 Yes B Kantor Managing Director 26 Jun 02 8 Jun 87 No 2008 No GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 3 Jul 02 3 Jul 02 No 2007 No A Tapnack 1 Jul 02 1 Jul 02 No 2007 No Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 26 Jun 02 1 Jan 94 No 2008 Yes SE Abrahams 26 Jun 02 21 Oct 96 Yes 2008 Yes GFO Alford 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2007 No CA Carolus 18 Mar 05 18 Mar 05 Yes 2008 No H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2008 No GMT Howe 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2008 No IR Kantor 26 Jun 02 30 Jul 80 No 2008 Yes Sir Chips Keswick Senior Independent Director 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2008 No MP Malungani 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 No 2008 No Sir David Prosser 23 Mar 06 23 Mar 06 Yes 2006 Yes PRS Thomas 26 Jun 02 29 Jun 81 Yes 2008 Yes F Titi 30 Jan 04 30 Jan 04 No 2007 No 172 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance Independence In accordance with the London Combined Code, more than half the board excluding the Chairman comprised non-executive directors considered by the board to be independent within the meaning of and with regard to the criteria set out in the London Combined Code and King II.
A summary of the factors the board uses to determine the independence of directors is detailed below.
Chairman The Chairman of the board is not considered to be independent as described in the board statement on page 171.
Relationships and associations Peter Malungani is the Chairman of Peu Group Proprietary Limited and Fani Titi was previously the Chairman of Tiso Group Limited.
Both companies have a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Peter and Fani could not be considered independent under the London Combined Code and King II.
Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, Investecs Managing Director and a previous CEO of Investec.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Ian could not be considered independent under the London Combined Code and King II.
Despite the board concluding that Ian, Peter and Fani cannot be considered independent, the board is of the view that their skills, knowledge, experience and attributes are nonetheless valuable to the organisation and believe they do and will use their independent judgement when making decisions that affect the organisation and stakeholders.
Attendance at risk management meetings Sam Abrahams and Peter Thomas regularly attend, by invitation, certain risk management committees of Investec Limited.
The board considers their attendance at these committees to be desirable in terms of developing an understanding of the day-to-day issues facing the business.
This further allows Sam to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as Chairman of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees.
The board therefore concluded that Sam and Peter retain independence of character and judgement.
Tenure The board does not believe that any current non-executive director has served on the board for a period which could materially interfere with the directors ability to act in our best interests.
Accordingly, the board has concluded that Peter Thomas and Sam Abrahams, despite having been directors of Investec for more than nine years, retain both financial independence and independence of character and judgement.
The board does not believe that any director, who has served for more than nine years, is not independent.
In the spirit of complying with the highest standards of corporate governance, each such director stands for annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in the London Combined Code and King ll, the board is of the view that most of the non-executive directors are independent of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The balance of executive and non-executive directors is such that there is a clear division of responsibility to ensure a balance of power, such that no one individual or group can dominate board processes or have unfettered powers of decision making.
The board believes that it functions effectively and evaluates its performance annually.
Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of directors The board considers that the skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of the directors as a whole are appropriate for their responsibilities and our activities.
The directors bring a range of skills to the board, including: International business and operational experience Understanding of the economics of the sectors in which we operate Knowledge of the regulatory environments in which we operate Financial, accounting, legal and banking experience and knowledge.
The skills and experience pro le of the board and its committees are reviewed regularly by the DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee, to ensure an appropriate and relevant composition from a governance, succession and effectiveness perspective.
Annual report 2009 173 Risk and governance Corporate governance Board and directors performance evaluation Board and directors performance is evaluated annually based on recognised codes of corporate governance and covers areas of the boards processes and responsibilities, according to leading practice.
The performance evaluation process takes place both informally, through personal observations and discussions, and regularly, in the form of evaluation questionnaires.
The results, including additional comments in such questionaires, are incorporated into a matrix which is considered and discussed by the board.
The Chairman holds regular one-on-one meetings with each director to discuss the results of the formal and informal evaluations and, in particular, to seek comments on strengths and developmental areas of the members, the chairman and the board as a whole.
Individual training and development needs are discussed with each board member and any requests for training are communicated to the Company Secretary for implementation.
The Chairman reports the results of these evaluations to the boards and matters identi ed during the course of the review are scheduled for appropriate action and later reviewed to ensure implementation.
Terms of appointment On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a letter of appointment.
The letter sets out, among other things, the duties, responsibilities and expected time commitment of non-executive directors, details of our policy on obtaining independent advice and, where appropriate, details of the board committees of which the non-executive director is a member.
We have a policy that insures directors against liabilities they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Ongoing training and development On appointment, directors are provided with an induction pack and participate in an induction programme tailored to their needs, including meeting with business unit and central services heads to ensure they become familiar with business operations, senior management, our business environment and internal controls, policies, processes and systems for managing risk.
Directors ongoing training and development is a standing board agenda item, including updates on the various training and development initiatives provided.
Board members receive regular formal presentations on regulatory and governance matters as well as on the business and support functions.
Regular interactive workshops are arranged between directors and the heads of risk management, control functions and business units.
The Company Secretary liaises with the directors to source relevant seminars and conferences which directors attend, funded by Investec.
Following the boards and directors performance evaluation process, any training needs are communicated to the Company Secretary who ensures that these needs are addressed.
Independent advice Through the Senior Independent Director or the Company Secretary, individual directors are entitled to seek professional independent advice on matters related to the exercise of their duties and responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
No such advice was sought during the 2009 financial year.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and remuneration process are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 189 to 205.
Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer are set out in writing, are clearly fide ned and have board approval.
The Chairman leads the board and is responsible for ensuring that the board receives accurate, timely and clear information to ensure that directors can perform their duties effectively.
Details of the Chairmans external directorships are set out on page 220.
The board does not consider that the Chairmans external commitments interfere with his performance and responsibilities to Investec.
The board is satis ed that the Chairman makes suf cient time available to serve Investec effectively.
The board has not appointed a Deputy Chairman.
174 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance Senior Independent Director Sir Chips Keswick was appointed Senior Independent Director on 7 July 2004.
He is available to address any concerns or questions from shareholders and non-executive directors.
Company Secretaries David Miller is the Company Secretary of Investec plc and Benita Coetsee is the Company Secretary of Investec Limited.
They are responsible for the ow of information to the board and its committees and for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries whose appointment and removal are a board matter.
Les Penfold is Global Head of Company Secretarial and coordinates and drives the secretarial functions and board governance.
Board meetings The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited met six times during the year.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa respectively.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the agenda for each meeting, in consultation with the Chief Executive Of cer and the Company Secretaries.
Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board are provided to directors in advance.
The non-executive directors met during the period under review in the absence of the executive directors.
Details of directors attendance at board meetings are shown in the table below.
Investec plc and Investec Limited board Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent held during the year attended during the year Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer 6 6 - B Kantor Managing Director 6 5 - GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 6 6 - A Tapnack 6 5 - Non-executive directors H Herman Chairman 6 6 - SE Abrahams 6 6 Yes GFO Alford 6 5 Yes CA Carolus 6 5 Yes H Fukuda OBE 6 5 Yes GMT Howe 6 5 Yes IR Kantor 6 3 - Sir Chips Keswick Senior Independent Director 6 1 Yes MP Malungani 6 5 - Sir David Prosser 6 5 Yes PRS Thomas 6 6 Yes F Titi 6 6 - Sir Chips Keswick was excused from several board meetings and board committee meetings between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 due to health reasons.
However, his views and advice were obtained where considered necessary by the Chairman.
Re-election of board members All directors are subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited, at least one third of the directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
In compliance with the London Combined Code A.
7.2. non-executive directors who have served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election are re-elected annually.
Retiring directors are subject to an assessment of their performance by the Chairman and the Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee before nomination for re-election and re-appointment.
Biographical details of the directors standing for re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting are on pages 219 to 222.
Annual report 2009 175 Risk and governance Corporate governance Board committees The board is supported by key committees, as follows: DLC Audit Committee Investec plc Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Investec Limited Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Board Risk and Capital Committee - DLC Capital Committee - Executive Risk Review Forum - Various specialist risk committees and forums as described in the risk management section on pages 85 to 168.
DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee DLC Remuneration Committee These committees have speci c terms of reference, appropriately skilled members and access to specialist advice when necessary.
Audit Committees In terms of our DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc Audit Committee and the Investec Limited Audit Committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies.
A DLC Audit Committee has responsibility to the board for matters common to Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Role and responsibilities The responsibilities of the Audit Committees include: Reviewing and making recommendations for the boards approval of our combined and individual company reports and financial statements and other published or released financial reporting documents or statements Reviewing the appropriateness of the combined groups and individual companies accounting policies and their application Overseeing the external audit process in the review of reports and accounts Considering the external audit scope, fees and audit findings Reviewing internal audit plans, reports, capacity and capability, and the reliance by the external auditors on the work and findings of Internal Audit Reviewing non-audit services provided by the external auditors Focusing on our compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the relevant listing requirements Implementing measures to maintain effective systems of internal financial control and for reporting nonfinancial operating data.
We believe the Audit Committees have the necessary expertise to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
As required by the JSE Listings Requirement 3.4 h, the Audit Committee has satis ed itself that the Group Finance Director has appropriate expertise and experience.
The independence of the external auditors is reviewed with the auditors by the Audit Committees each year.
176 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance Membership and attendance Details of membership, relevant quali cations and experience, as well as attendance at Audit Committee meetings, are shown below and on the next page.
DLC Audit Committee Number of Number of Independent Qualifi cations and experience meetings held meetings during the attended year during the year SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes FCA CA SA - Sam is a former international partner and South African Managing Partner of Arthur Andersen GFO Alford 4 4 Yes BSc Econ FCIS FIPD MSI - George is a former Head of Private Banking and Personnel at Kleinwort Benson Group and was a senior advisor to the UK Financial Services Authority GMT Howe 4 4 Yes MA Hons - Geoffrey is a former Managing Partner at Clifford Chance LLP, Director and Group General Counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd and Chairman of Nationwide Building Society Sir Chips Keswick 4 2 Yes Sir Chips is a former Chairman of Hambros Bank Limited, Hambros PLC, former director of Anglo American plc and fide Beers Board Sir David Prosser 4 4 Yes BSc Hons FIA - Sir David was previously Chief Executive of Legal & General Group PLC and was previously Chairman of the Financial Services Skills Council PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes CA SA - Peter was the former Managing Director of The Unisec Group Limited Investec plc Audit Committee Number of Number of Independent Qualifi cations and experience meetings held meetings during the attended year during the year SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes Refer as above GFO Alford 4 4 Yes Refer as above GMT Howe 4 3 Yes Refer as above Sir Chips Keswick 4 2 Yes Refer as above Sir David Prosser 4 4 Yes Refer as above PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes Refer as above Sir Chips Keswick was excused from several board meetings and board committee meetings between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 due to health reasons.
However, his views and advice were obtained where considered necessary by the Chairman Annual report 2009 177 Risk and governance Corporate governance Investec Limited Audit Committee Number of Number of Independent Qualifi cations and experience meetings held meetings during the attended year during the year SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes Refer as above GFO Alford 4 4 Yes Refer as above RMW Dunne 4 2 Yes CA SA - Richard is a former partner and Chief Operating Of cer of Deloitte GMT Howe 4 3 Yes Refer as above Sir Chips Keswick 4 2 Yes Refer as above Sir David Prosser 4 4 Yes Refer as above PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes Refer as above CB Tshili 4 3 - CA SA - Busi is Group Finance Director of Peu Group Pty Ltd Sir Chips Keswick was excused from several board meetings and board committee meetings between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 due to health reasons.
However, his views and advice were obtained where considered necessary by the Chairman Busi Tshili is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee Richard Dunne is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on the committee.
Richard was appointed to the committee in June 2008 and attended two of the meetings since his appointment Audit Sub-Committees Audit Sub-Committees for Investec plc and Investec Limited and other regulated subsidiaries, have been established.
These allow senior managers of the business units, who do not attend the main Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committee meetings, to meet with the risk and control functions and to provide input on the risk and control environment of the business units.
Members of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees are entitled to attend these meetings and, as a general rule, at least one non-executive member does so.
Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums have been established for Investec plc and Investec Limited and their principal operating subsidiaries.
Each Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum is attended by key executives and heads of risk and control functions.
Non-executive directors have an open invitation to attend.
These forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations and other matters that the relevant Audit Committee or Audit Sub-Committee consider important and facilitate the timely escalation, response and understanding of risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The forums are key to enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forums support and provide important insight to the Audit Committees.
Essentially, the forums act as a lter, enabling the Audit Committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
DLC Remuneration Committee Role and responsibilities Details of the role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 190.
Membership and attendance Details of membership and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are shown below.
DLC Remuneration Committee Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent held during the year attended during the year GFO Alford Chairman 6 6 Yes GMT Howe 6 6 Yes Sir Chips Keswick 6 2 Yes Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
Sir Chips Keswick was excused from several board meetings and board committee meetings between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 due to health reasons.
However, his views and advice were obtained where considered necessary by the Chairman 178 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee The Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee has combined the duties of a Nomination Committee and that of a Directors Affairs Committee as required under Section 64B of the South African Banks Act.
Role and responsibilities The Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee is responsible for, among other things: Identifying and nominating the approval of board candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise Determining and evaluating the adequacy, ef ciency and appropriateness of the corporate governance structure and practices of the group Establishing and maintaining a board directorship continuity programme Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the boards and board committees compared to their current positions and make recommendations to the boards regarding any changes The nomination of successors to the key positions in Investec Limited or Investec Bank Limited, its major subsidiary, in order to ensure that a management succession plan is in place.
Membership and attendance Details of attendance and membership are shown below.
DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent Committee held during the year attended during the year HS Herman Chairman 3 3 - SE Abrahams 3 3 Yes Sir Chips Keswick 3 1 Yes F Titi 3 2 - PRS Thomas 3 3 Yes Sir Chips Keswick was excused from several board meetings and board committee meetings between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 due to health reasons.
However, his views and advice were obtained where considered necessary by the Chairman Board Risk and Capital Committee The purpose of the Board Risk and Capital Committee is to determine, under delegated authority from and as a sub-committee of the board, the categories of risk, speci c risks and the extent of such risks which the group on a consolidated basis, and its banks on a solo basis, should undertake, mitigation of risks and capital management.
Role and responsibilities The committee will ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout Investec The risk management structure is adequate, with suf cient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the board Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are rati ed: liquidity and operational risk are also monitored There is an ongoing process of risk and control identi cation, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the bases of measuring risk There is suf cient capital in relation to existing and potential risks to the organisation.
The Board Risk and Capital Committee fide fines the processes by which internal financial control, risk and capital management are assumed and monitored.
The Group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the board and the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
These include the Capital Committee, the Executive Risk Review Forum, Asset and Liability Committees, Group Credit Committees, Group Market Risk Forum, Group Deal Forum, Operational Risk Committees Forums, Group Investment Committee and Group Legal Risk Forum.
Annual report 2009 179 Risk and governance Corporate governance Membership and attendance Board Risk and Capital Committee Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent held during the year attended during the year S Koseff Chairman 6 5 - SE Abrahams 6 5 Yes GFO Alford 6 5 Yes GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 6 5 - GMT Howe 6 3 Yes B Kantor Managing Director 6 6 - Sir Chips Keswick 6 3 Yes MP Malungani 6 4 - K Socikwa 6 4 Yes A Tapnack 6 5 - PRS Thomas 6 6 Yes F Titi 6 4 - Sir Chips Keswick was excused from several board meetings and board committee meetings between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 due to health reasons.
However, his views and advice were obtained where considered necessary by the Chairman Karl Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interests on this committee Executive Risk Review Forum The purpose of the Executive Risk Review Forum is to supplement the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
It assists in determining the categories of risk, the speci c risks and the extent of such risks which the group should undertake.
Role and responsibilities The Executive Risk Review Forum will: Evaluate the most signi cant risks we face in the ordinary course of business Ensure that limits are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented Act as agent of the board to ensure that all decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout the group Ensure the group-wide risk management structure is adequately resourced and has an appropriate budget Provide regular reports to the board focusing on effectiveness of the control framework Provide regular reports on group-wide adherence to regulatory requirements and advise on how changes to regulatory requirements will affect us Ensure that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identi cation, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, such as the commencement of a new trading area or product stream.
Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer Membership Executive directors GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director B Kantor Managing Director A Tapnack Senior management B Fried C Daleski RJ Cowley PR Jacobson DM Lawrence B Tapnack M Trollip DM van der Walt RJ Wainwright JKC Whelan IR Wohlman Meeting frequency Every Friday except on Board Risk and Capital Committee dates 180 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance DLC Capital Committee The DLC Capital Committee is mandated by the Board Risk and Capital Committee to be the Capital Committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions and capital-based incentivisation.
Role and responsibilities The DLC Capital Committee is responsible for: Determining the DLC groups capital requirements Reviewing capital adequacy submissions to be made to regulators Considering the ongoing requirements and consequences of Basel II and other regulatory requirements and their impacts on regulatory capital requirements Considering, determining and approving capital issues relating to any corporate structuring for acquisitions Monitoring the capital positions and returns on internal capital of each business unit Submission of capital recommendations to the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Of cer Membership Non-executive directors SE Abrahams Executive directors GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director B Kantor Managing Director A Tapnack Senior management SM Burgess B Fried RJ Jacobson LR Penfold N Samujh B Tapnack DM van der Walt JKC Whelan IR Wohlman Meeting frequency At least quarterly Management and succession planning Global business unit heads, geographic management and the heads of central and group service functions are appointed by executive management and are endorsed by the board, based on the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the required function.
In general, managers do not have xed term employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Our management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities are built around a geographic, divisional and functional network, as depicted on page 37.
Each strategic business unit has an executive management committee and is responsible for taking and implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Matters of succession are considered regularly.
Decision making is spread to encourage and develop an experienced pool of talent.
Internal control We have adopted the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales in 1999 and revised in 2005, and continued to embed these principles throughout the group during the year under review.
Cognisance has also been taken of the King ll requirements in South Africa.
Risks and controls are reviewed and monitored regularly for relevance and effectiveness.
The Board Risk and Capital Committee and Audit Committees assist the board in this regard.
Sound risk management practices are promoted by the Group Risk Management function, which is independent of operational management.
The board recognises its responsibility for the overall risk and control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Annual report 2009 181 Risk and governance Corporate governance The overall system of internal control is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, signi cant risks we face and was in place for the year under review.
It is recognised that such a system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material error, omission, misstatement or loss.
This is achieved within the group through a combination of risk identi cation, evaluation and monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and assurance and control functions such as Group Risk Management, Internal Audit and Compliance.
These ongoing processes were in place throughout the year under review.
Internal Audit reports any control recommendations to senior management, Group Risk Management and the relevant Audit Committee.
Appropriate processes, including review by the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, ensure that timely corrective action is taken on matters raised by Internal Audit.
Signi cant risks are reviewed regularly by the Executive Risk Review Forum and by the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Material incidents and losses and signi cant breaches of systems and controls are reported to the Board Risk and Capital Committee and the Audit Committees.
Reports from the Audit Committees, Board Risk and Capital Committee and Risk and Control functions are reviewed at each board meeting.
Internal financial controls Internal financial controls are based on established policies and procedures.
Management is responsible for implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably quali ed, that appropriate segregation exists between duties, and that there is suitable independent review.
These areas are monitored by the board through the Audit Committees and are independently assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
Processes are in place to monitor internal control effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Relations coordinate, review and comment on the monthly financial and regulatory reports, and facilitate the interim and annual financial reporting process, including the independent audit process.
The board considers that the groups systems of internal control are appropriately designed to: Provide reasonable, although not absolute, assurance of both the integrity and reliability of financial information Identify and appropriately mitigate signi cant risks Safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of assets Mitigate risk exposure to fraud and misappropriation Support business objectives and sustainability under normal and adverse operating conditions Ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Risk management The board is responsible for the total process of risk management and the systems of internal control.
A number of committees and forums assist in this regard.
Senior management is responsible for identifying risks and implementing appropriate mitigation processes and controls within their businesses.
The independent Group Risk Management functions, which are accountable to the board, are responsible for establishing, reviewing and monitoring the process of risk management.
Group Risk Management reports regularly to the Board Risk and Capital Committee and the Executive Risk Review Forum.
Risk management is discussed in more detail on pages 85 to 168.
Internal Audit Each signi cant jurisdiction has an Internal Audit presence that is appropriate for the size, nature and extent of business conducted.
Smaller geographies are supported by the Internal Audit teams of the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
A risk based audit approach is followed and the Audit Committee approves annual audit plans.
Heads of Internal Audit report to the Chairmen of the relevant Audit Committees and to the Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
For further details on the Internal Audit function, see page 165.
External audit Our external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc.
The Audit Committees meet with the external auditors to review the scope of the external audit, budgets the extent of non-audit services rendered and any other audit matters.
The external auditors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings and have access to the Chairman of each Audit Committee.
Recommendations on the rotation of auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well as Directive 6 2008 of the South African Banks Act, were adhered to during the period under review.
182 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of an agreed policy which states that: External audit rms will have internal standards and processes to monitor and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the Audit Committees on an annual basis.
These will be considered based on the explicit exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines.
Safeguards must be in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit, resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Total audit fees paid to all auditors for the year 7.0 million 2008: 7.1 million, of which 1.2 million 2008: 1.4 million related to the provision of non-audit services.
Compliance The Compliance function ensures that we continuously comply with existing and emerging regulation impacting on our operations.
We recognise our responsibility to conduct business in accordance with the laws and regulations in the countries and areas in which we operate.
The Compliance function is supported by Group Compliance and compliance of cers in the business units.
For further details on the Compliance function, see pages 166 to 168.
Regulation and supervision We are subject to external regulation and supervision by various supervisory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, the main ones being the Banking Supervision Department BSD of the South African Reserve Bank SARB, the UK Financial Services Authority FSA and the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA.
Some of our businesses are subject to supervision by the South African Financial Services Board, South African National Credit Regulator and the South African Financial Intelligence Centre.
The SARB Banking Supervision Department is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec group, comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
SARB is the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the FSA is the supervisor of Investec plc.
We strive to establish and maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and supervisors.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues and we report to regulators and supervisory bodies regularly.
Where appropriate, we participate in industry committees and discussion groups to maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which we operate.
Communication, public disclosure obligations and stakeholder relations The board recognises that effective communication is integral in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and nonfinancial information to primary stakeholders, as fide ned below.
The purpose is to help these stakeholders make meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions about the group.
We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our position by addressing material matters of signi cant interest and concern.
We seek to highlight the key risks to which we consider ourselves exposed and our responses to minimise the impact of these risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative aspects of our activities in order to achieve a comprehensive and fair account of our performance.
Our primary stakeholders include employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, depositors, suppliers, rating agencies, the media, communities and industry equity and debt analysts.
The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all our stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them.
As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the UKLA and JSE and other exchanges on which our shares are listed and with any public disclosure obligations as required by the FSA and SARB.
We also recognise that from time to time we may be required to adhere to public disclosure obligations in other countries where we have operations, for example Australia.
The board is committed to adopting the better and or stricter of the existing governance and regulatory standards between the UK and South Africa.
The Investor Relations division has day-to-day responsibility for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders and, together with the Company Secretarial division, ensures that we meet our public disclosure obligations.
We have a board approved policy statement in place to ensure that we comply with all relevant public disclosure obligations and uphold the boards communication and disclosure philosophy.
The processes we have adopted to ensure that we comply with all public disclosure obligations are set out below: Signi cant announcements are released directly to the market primarily via the services offered by the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges, and also via the services offered by the other exchanges where our shares are listed.
In terms of our DLC structure, announcements are released almost simultaneously on all exchanges, thereby ensuring fair treatment of all stakeholders.
Copies of these announcements are placed on the Investec website as soon as possible following con rmation of release on the relevant exchanges, but within 24 hours at the latest, and are kept on the website for several years.
We maintain a comprehensive investor relations website, which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to historical and current information.
Annual report 2009 183 Risk and governance Corporate governance We host at least four investor presentations a year: two before we enter a closed period and on the day we release interim and year end results.
Investor presentations are broadcast live via video conference from our of ces in the UK and South Africa.
In addition, we also publish two interim management statements i. e. quarterly updates as required in terms of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Stakeholders are noti ed of these events via the stock exchange news or regulatory information services and are welcome to attend and engage with executive and non-executive directors.
Stakeholders also have the option of using a live telephone conference facility or accessing the audio webcasts of the presentation via our website.
Occasionally, we are invited to attend external third party investor conferences at which we present our financial and operational performance.
Regular contact is maintained with major stakeholders through a comprehensive investor relations programme, which includes meetings with executive management, investor road shows and presentations to the investment community, communication by email, regular telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders in response to their enquiries.
The Investor Relations division reports back regularly to the operating divisions, the group executive and the board on matters and concerns raised by stakeholders.
Copies of analyst, rating agency and other relevant reports are also circulated to the board.
Our communication policy focuses on ensuring that all employees worldwide are informed of business developments and activities.
In this regard a number of channels are used, including our quarterly magazine Impact, comprehensive intranet sites and staff updates hosted by the executive.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and to raise issues and participate in discussions on items included in the notice of the meeting.
The meeting enables the board to communicate with shareholders and for shareholders to ask questions in person.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Directors Affairs Committees, as well as the Senior Independent Director, attend the meeting to respond to relevant questions.
All valid proxy appointments are recorded and counted and, at general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is available to all shareholders.
We propose a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and do not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
All resolutions are determined on a poll.
Shareholders are requested to approve our report and accounts and our remuneration report.
The outcome of the voting on the items of business are released on the stock exchange news services or regulatory information and posted on our website after the meeting.
During the year, the Chief Executive Of cer, the group Managing Director and other members of executive management continued to meet with shareholders in the UK, Europe, the USA and South Africa, to understand their issues and concerns and discuss matters relating to our activities and performance.
No new material or price sensitive information is provided at such meetings.
Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director are available and will attend meetings if requested and, as mentioned above, feedback on any issues or concerns raised by investors is provided to the board.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are committed to communicating with shareholder bodies, to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
We will continue to engage these bodies so as to remain informed of emerging governance issues.
Dealings in securities Dealings in securities are subject to the Personal Account Dealing Policy that has been in operation for a number of years.
The policy is based on regulatory guidance and industry practice and is updated to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and industry good practice.
The policy is designed to discourage speculative trading and highlights the potential con icts of interest between the interests of employees and the Investec group or any of its clients, shareholders or potential shareholders.
The UKs Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires us to disclose transactions in shares and related securities by all persons discharging management responsibilities and their connected persons.
These include directors and senior executives of the group.
The UK and SA Companies Acts require directors to disclose any direct or indirect material interest they have in contracts, including proposed contracts, which are of signi cance to the companys business.
Directors are required to make these disclosures at board meetings, and all disclosures made are recorded in the minutes of that meeting.
Directors dealings The Remuneration Report, as set out on pages 189 to 205, contains details of Investec shares held by directors.
Directors dealings in the securities of Investec plc and Investec Limited are subject to a policy based on regulatory requirements and governance best practice.
All directors dealings require the prior approval of the Compliance division and the Chairman or, in the Chairmans absence, Sam Abrahams or Sir Chips Keswick.
All dealings of persons discharging management responsibilities require approval by line management, the Compliance division and the Chairman.
184 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Corporate governance Values and code of conduct We have a strong organisational culture of entrenched values, which forms the cornerstone of our behaviour towards all stakeholders.
These values are embodied in a written Statement of Values, which serves as our Code of Ethics, and is continually reinforced.
We view all employees as the custodians of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced through internal processes, policies and procedures.
As such, all new employees are invited and are strongly encouraged to attend an induction process at which our philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures are explained and discussed.
Our Organisation Development team plays an important role in facilitating the understanding and ongoing practice of our values, philosophies and culture.
In addition to our values, acceptable business practices are communicated through the Human Resources practices manual, which is available on our intranet.
We continually strive to conduct our business with uncompromising integrity and fairness, so as to promote trust and con dence in the banking industry.
Sustainable business practices We have an acute awareness of the need for longevity and durability, across all our businesses, and an ingrained understanding of the practices that underpin sustainability.
Our triple bottom line approach is documented on pages 209 to 211 and further detail can be found on our website.
Annual report 2009 185 Report Remuneration Report
