The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance The Company adheres to the principles of corporate governance Details of all payments to Directors are included in the contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 36. was issued in 2003 and updated in 2006 and 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.
One third of the Directors are required to stand for re-election each year on a rotational basis.
New Directors are subject to election at The Board is committed to high standards of Corporate the first opportunity following appointment and all names submitted Governance and acknowledges the importance of good to shareholders for election are accompanied by biographies.
governance as being in the best interests of the Company, its shareholders and employees.
Board Procedures All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper Statement of Compliance stewardship of the Groups affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors The Group has adopted the 2006 Combined Code and considers have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31 March proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and 2009 with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined critically examined to ensure that they take proper account of Code, except in respect of: the best long term interests of the shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the community.
A3.2 the independence of the Board We recognise that with three Executive Directors and two To enable them to do this, all the Directors have full and timely independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman, the access to all relevant information and can take independent Board does not fully comply with the Combined Code regarding professional advice at the Groups expense at any time should it the balance of the Board.
However, the Board unanimously be necessary.
All Directors have access to the advice and services believes that the current composition of the Board remains suitable of the Company Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring for the nature and size of the Group.
Experience and independent that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal judgement of our Non-Executive Directors are more important than of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
We believe that the collective skills, experience Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and approach to running the business is appropriate for driving the and on an ongoing basis as a consequence of the Board Group forward and achieving the Groups goals whilst maintaining appraisal process.
the highest standard of corporate governance.
The Board is satisfied that no individual or group of Directors has unfettered The Board uses an annual agenda and review timetable to ensure powers of discretion and that an appropriate balance exists that relevant matters are given due consideration.
between the Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board.
Strategy C. 3.1 the composition of the Audit Committe The Executive Committee held an annual off site meeting at which We recognise that only two of the three members of the Audit the Groups strategy was reviewed in the context of the macro and Committee are independent Non-Executive directors.
However, micro economic environment, competitor strategies and the need the Chairman will remain a member of the Audit Committee as in for the Group to create competitive advantage.
The outcome was the Boards view his objectivity and ability to advise and question reported to the Board and taken into account when the Board the Executive Directors, particularly in respect of financial affairs reviewed and determined the strategy of the Group.
His counsel has contributed significantly to the Groups success.
Business Plan The Board reviewed the three year rolling Business Plan and yearly Application of the Code budgets forecasts were updated quarterly to support the Groups The Board has conducted a review of the Groups Corporate strategy.
Progress reporting includes a detailed monthly board Governance practice and the following statement describes how report circulated to the Board and at each regular Board meeting the principles of good governance in section 1 of the Combined the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director provide an Code have been applied.
update on progress within all areas.
In addition, the interim and final results together with the Risk Register and the Register of The Board Directors Conflicts were reviewed.
As part of the bi-annual review The Company is controlled through the Board which currently of the Risk Register, the Board has analysed social, environmental consists of three Executive and three Non-Executive Directors.
and ethical SEE risks but have found none to be material.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on page 22.
Compliance and External Relationships The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors All Divisional Managing Directors and Function Heads present to excluding the Chairman are independent of management within the the Board annually.
Health and Safety is reviewed at each Board meaning of the Combined Code and are free from any business or meeting and is the first item on the Board agenda.
other relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
They bring to the Board a wide The Board meets 10 times a year.
Individual attendance at Board range of experience of senior management in other areas of meetings and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table commerce and industry and represent a source of strong below for the year ended 31 March 2009. independent advice and judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors meet several times a year without the Executive Directors present.
In addition, Directors have frequent contact between meetings.
Directors also visit trading locations in order to maintain close The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three year term of contact with the Groups business.
The Executive Directors have one year service contracts.
26 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 There is an agreed Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board commitment, give sound guidance and direction to the business for collective decision making, which was reviewed in April 2009. and that the Board committees operate effectively.
Each Director These matters include setting long term Group objectives and the continues to make an effective contribution to the work of strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies in the Board, is well prepared and informed and has a good the areas of health and safety, the environment, recruitment and understanding of the Groups businesses.
Points raised during employment, risk management, treasury and, subject to materiality the previous years have been satisfactorily addressed.
thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, financial commitments, acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, The papers presented by the executive management are defence and settlement of litigation.
comprehensive and plans brought to the Board are challenged robustly and critically.
However, once the debate is summarised and The Board has delegated to the Group Chief Executive a way forward agreed, the Executive Committee have total support responsibility for the development and preparation of the Business with a strong sense of consensus and collective ownership.
Plan for the Group and annual Group budget for recommendation Audit Remuneration Nomination to the Board.
As the Senior Executive Director, the Group Chief Committee Attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Executive is responsible for all aspects of day to day operational P T Warry 10 2 5 1 control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The R Murray 10 n a n a n a Group Chief Executive has established and chairs an Executive G Slark 10 n a n a 1 Committee whose other members are the Managing Directors A Ball 10 n a n a n a of principal operating businesses, the Group Finance Director, R J Harrison OBE 10 2 5 1 Function Heads and the Group Company Secretary to assist him T Osbaldiston 10 2 5 1 in the performance of his duties which meets once a month.
There Number of meetings is a clear division between the roles and responsibilities of the in the year 10 2 5 1 Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and both have been set Non-Executive Directors three out in writing.
where n a appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee The Terms of Reference for the Board and each of its Committees The Remuneration Committee are available on request from the Group Company Secretary, for The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-Executive inspection at the Annual General Meeting and are also available Directors only and is chaired by Mr R J Harrison OBE.
The on the Companys website www.
The Business Remuneration Committee has access to external research on Conduct Policy, the Environmental Policy, the Health and Safety market data and trends provided by an independent experienced Policy, the Ethical Trading Policy and the Charity Policy are also consultant.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, who have no other available on this website.
connection with the Company, continued to be the Companys advisers during the year.
The Report of the Remuneration Information and Professional Development Committee is shown on pages 31 to 36.
The Board is supplied with information in a form and quality to enable it to take informed decisions and to discharge its duties.
The Committee decides on all aspects of the remuneration of the Directors were provided with the opportunity to update their skills Executive Directors and the Chairman including basic salaries, and knowledge, including, in the year under review, updates on the performance related elements like short and long term bonuses, Companies Act 2006 and the disclosure requirements in respect share options and other benefits.
It advises the Board on matters of granting securities over shares.
relating to the remuneration of the Group as a whole such as pay rises, Group wide SAYE schemes, Executive Share schemes or In the case of newly appointed Directors, an induction programme grants for Executives other than main Board Directors.
which includes training on the responsibilities of a Director occurs prior to or immediately following the appointment to the Board.
In The Nomination Committee addition, several Board meetings a year are held at Group locations The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors other than Head Office.
and the Group Chief Executive and is chaired by Mr P T Warry.
Appointments to Executive Director are fully discussed by the Board Effectiveness Chairman and Group Chief Executive with the Remuneration and The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board and its committees Nomination Committees before a proposal is formally made to the focused on a number of areas, including those concerned with Board by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Possible best practice based on the principles of good governance.
Our new Non-Executive Directors are chosen from a shortlist supplied evaluation was carried out internally by the Chairman through a by external consultants in light of the requirements of the Groups detailed questionnaire and formal appraisals of the individual business and the need to have a balanced Board.
Recruitment performance of the Non-Executive Directors were conducted by consultants are used to assist the process.
the Chairman by holding a meeting with each Director.
All Executive Directors are appraised annually by the Group Chief Executive Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in and the Group Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The conjunction with the Group Company Secretary and the Group Executive and the Non-Executive Directors assess the performance Chief Executive, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and of the Chairman.
tailored induction to the Company is given.
The Directors assessed the findings of the appraisal in February 2009 and concluded that the Board members demonstrate The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance continued The Nomination Committee meets at least annually and reviews Anthony Smith MD of Birchwood Products, Sandra Smith the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes Group Human Resources Director, Jonathan Jennings Group recommendations for any changes.
It discusses and gives full Central Services Director, Mike Spalding Group IT Director and consideration to succession planning at both Group level and the Ute Ball Group Company Secretary.
Candidates are identified and nominated to fill Group vacancies both Executive and NonInternal Control Executive, as and when they arise.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness during the year.
The Combined The Audit Committee Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors Groups system of internal control which includes financial, and the Group Chairman only and has been chaired by operational, compliance and risk management controls.
Mr T Osbaldiston since his appointment on 1 January 2004, who as the Finance Director of Raymarine PLC, has recent and relevant The system of internal control is designed to safeguard the financial expertise.
The Board considers that the membership of assets of the Group, ensure the accuracy of its reporting and the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant enable efficient operations and compliance with laws and financial experience to discharge its functions.
In establishing this system, the Directors considered external auditors and the internal auditors also attend by invitation the nature of the Groups business, including the materiality of the as required.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial risks being run, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs statements of the Group and reviews significant financial reporting of control and mitigation of likely losses.
It therefore follows that the issues.
The effectiveness of internal controls and risk management system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not systems are kept under review.
Through the Groups Whistle absolute assurance.
Blowing Policy employees of the Group, may raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other operational An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in the work place.
significant risks faced by the Group has been in place from the Whistle blowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the beginning of the financial year to the date of approval of the Annual Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the with both the external and internal auditors on several occasions Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors during the year without executive directors being present.
and the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull Guidance 2005.
The Committee ensures that an adequate, properly resourced The processes by which the Board review the effectiveness of the and supported internal audit function is in place and monitors and internal control system include the following: reviews its effectiveness.
The effectiveness of the external audit is also reviewed and the Committee ensures that recommendations An established framework of internal financial control including are acted upon by management.
independent check, which includes a clearly defined management structure and comprehensive systems of The external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the budgeting and financial reporting which are reviewed by Audit Committee and meet with him without management present.
successive levels of management The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and has overall responsibility for monitoring the Groups systems of internal Guidelines for capital expenditure which include budgets, financial control, the external and internal reporting processes appraisal and review procedures and successive authorisation and the financial control environment of the Group.
The Audit levels Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Internal financial controls and procedures for branches are included in branch operating manuals  LLP are engaged as the external auditors to all the Groups companies.
Details of audit and non-audit fees All trading locations are reviewed regularly by the Internal Audit are set out in note 2 to the accounts on page 47.
Non-audit fees department, and the Audit Committee receives reports from the principally relate to due diligence and taxation advice.
All services internal and external auditors on a regular basis performed by  LLP are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the UK Auditing Practices The Executive Management Committee receives a monthly Boards Ethical Standard 5, relating to non-audit services summary of financial results and the Groups published biannual performed by the Companys auditors.
financial information is based on a standardised reporting process Executive Committee The Directors have also reviewed the effectiveness of the system The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing the of internal financial control during the period in conjunction with the strategies and policies determined by the Board, managing the work of the internal audit department in relation to the safeguarding business and affairs of the Company, prioritising human resources of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting records and and establishing best management practices.
The Executive the reliability of financial information used within the business and Committee is also responsible for monitoring the Divisional Boards for publication.
The Executive Committee is currently comprised of Gavin Slark Chairman Group Chief Executive, Roddy Murray Group Finance Director, Alan Ball Executive Director and MD of PTS, Frank Elkins MD of BSS Industrial, Kelvin Stevens MD of F & P Wholesale, Kelvin Liscombe MD of Buck & Hickman, 28 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Investor Relations The Group has reviewed its key risk areas and in particular liquidity Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority.
Formal risk in relation to its bank facilities, credit risk associated with the communications accounting for the Companys performance and Groups key customers and the risk of reduced demand for its strategy are principally through the Annual Report and Accounts products due to the current economic downturn in the United and announcements made through the Stock Exchange and at Kingdom.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, corporate information of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that is made available to investors on the Companys website the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current www.
The Group has renegotiated its Revolving Credit Facility during April 2009 and therefore now has 90m debt not due for Presentations are made to institutional shareholders following repayment until 2012, 43m not due until 2013 and 29m not the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results, due until 2016. and regular meetings are held between these investors and the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
In addition, After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation institutional shareholders have visited some of the Group locations.
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to The Chairman attends some of the meetings with investors and is continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
available to meet with institutional investors upon request.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, receive a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and the feedback that follows the half yearly and yearly presentations to investment analysts and shareholders.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and the Board encourages shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
Directors, including the Chairmen of the Committees, are present to answer any questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The results of proxy voting by shareholders will be disclosed for each separate resolution and will be posted on the Companys website as well as disclosed upon request.
Mr R J Harrison OBE, has held the post of Senior Independent Director since 3 August 2006 and is the Director whom shareholders may contact if they feel their concerns are not being addressed.
The Group implemented the ICSA Guidance on Proxies and Corporate Representatives at General Meetings at last years Annual General Meeting and will continue to do so going forward.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 4 to 17.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 15 to 17.
In addition notes 13 and 16 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29
