American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 25 Under the 2006 Act all provisions of the Companys Corporate Governance memorandum, but most significantly the objects clause, are deemed to form part of the Companys articles from Compliance 1st October 2009.
It is possible for the objects clause to be The Company is committed to high standards of corporate removed or amended by amending the articles by special governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of resolution.
It is not necessary under the 2006 Act for a Directors Responsibilities on page 31, indicates how the company to set out its objects.
The 2006 Act provides that, Company has applied the principles of good governance of the unless the articles state otherwise, a companys objects will be 1 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code 2008 the unrestricted.
1 Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance One of the other key provisions of the memorandum which is the AIC Code, which complements the Combined Code and deemed to form part of the Companys articles from provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
1st October 2009 is the restriction created by the existing The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of authorised share capital statement.
The 2006 Act removes the corporate governance and considers that the Company has requirement for a company to place limits on its authorised complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined share capital.
Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, By adopting the new articles which do not contain the objects and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
clause or the authorised share capital statement, the Company will remove these provisions, which would otherwise be Role of the Board deemed to form part of the Companys articles under A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM section 28 of the 2006 Act, from its articles.
sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This For a more detailed explanation of these and other includes management of the Companys assets within the amendments please refer to the Appendix to this document on guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the pages 60 to 63. provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved A copy of the current Articles of Association and the proposed for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters new Articles of Association that reflect these amendments will reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This be available for inspection during normal business hours includes determination and monitoring of the Companys Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the investment objectives and policy and its future strategic offices of JPMAM, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, EC2Y 9AQ from the date of this report up until the close of the appointment and removal of third party service providers, AGM.
Copies will also be available at Trinity House, Tower Hill, review of key investment and financial data and the Companys London EC3N 4DH, being the place of the Annual General corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
Meeting, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and Recommendation additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function The Board considers that resolutions 8 to 11 are likely to effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their promote the success of the Company and are in the best responsibilities.
interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of On an annual basis each Director submits a list of potential the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own conflicts of interest for approval.
These are considered beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 57,913 shares representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share 1 Copies of the Combined Code and the AIC Code may be found on the capital of the Company.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 26 Directors Report Continued carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding Any Director who has served for a period of more than nine them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved for a period years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
During the year the potential conflicts of interest The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set were reviewed and considered by the Board.
However, in out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are future years they will be reviewed by the Nomination available for inspection on request at the Companys registered Committee which will then make a recommendation to the office and at the AGM.
Board on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
As a result of the Boards evaluation process described below, it confirms that James Fox and James Williams, who retire by There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent rotation at this years AGM, continue to be effective Directors professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the and demonstrate commitment to their role, and thus the Board Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every recommends their re-election.
The Board also recommends Director has to the advice and services of the Company the re-election of Hamish Buchan, who is subject to annual reSecretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for election as he has served as a Director of the Company for a ensuring adherence to Board procedures and compliance with period in excess of nine years.
Before recommending the reapplicable rules and regulations.
election of Mr Buchan, the Nomination Committee conducted a thorough review of his performance as Chairman and were Board Composition satisfied that he continues to demonstrate effective leadership The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by of the Company.
Hamish Buchan, all of whom are considered to be independent of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of Meetings and Committees investment, business and financial skills and experience The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown details of each Director are set out on page 18. with the Directors profiles on page 18.
A review of Board composition and balance is included as part The table below details the number of Board and Committee of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether were five Board meetings, including a private meeting of the a senior independent director should be appointed and has Directors to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, two Audit concluded that, as the Board is comprised entirely of Committee meetings and a meeting of the Nomination non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
However, the Committee were held.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, James Fox, is available to Audit Nomination shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved Board Committee Committee through discussion with the Chairman.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended Tenure Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual Hamish Buchan 5 2 1 General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Sarah Bates 5 2 1 Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
Kate Bolsover 5 2 1 Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a maximum James Fox 5 2 1 term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation James Williams 5 2 1 carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
The Training and Appraisal Board does not believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election but, On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide when making a recommendation, the Board will take into all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter regular account the ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are 26 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 27 encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering non-audit services and the period of service held by the senior issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the Committee meeting at which the draft annual report The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of and accounts are considered.
There are no contractual the Manager, its own performance and that of its committees restrictions on the choice of the Committee as to external and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the auditors.
The current tenure of the external auditor dates from Board, are completed by each Director.
Any decision to open the external audit to collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, whilst Committee.
The Directors statement on the Companys system the other Directors evaluate the performance of the Chairman of internal control is set out below.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that of its committees.
Terms of Reference Board Committees Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have written terms of reference which define clearly their respective Nomination Committee responsibilities, copies of which are available on the Companys The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and website and for inspection on request at the Companys comprising all of the Directors, meets at least annually to registered office and at the AGM.
ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable Relations with Shareholders candidates, when necessary, for appointment.
A variety of sources, including the use of external search consultants, are The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the used to ensure that a wide range of candidates are considered.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and performance The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation, and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way as described above, to ensure that all members of the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year Report and have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the two Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented by work of the Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of and makes recommendations to the Board as and when the net asset value of the Companys shares.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to Audit Committee attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the The Audit Committee, chaired by James Fox and comprising Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in four of the Directors, meets at least twice each year.
Hamish person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In Buchan, as Chairman of the Company, is not a member of the addition, a presentation is given by one of the New York based Committee and attends by invitation only.
The members of the members of the investment management team who reviews Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and the Companys performance.
During the year the investment experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
management team, JPMAM and the Companys brokers hold The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews make themselves available as and when required to address the terms of the management agreement, examines the shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems and the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 65. receives information from the Managers compliance The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in department.
It also reviews the scope and results of the time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise objectivity of the external auditors, including the provision of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 28 Directors Report Continued questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Management Systems The Managers system of internal questions via the Companys website or write to the Company control includes organisational agreements which clearly Secretary at the address shown on page 65. define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance published on the Company website shortly after the Annual with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Internal Control Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
Companys system of internal control by monitoring the This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its identified to include business, financial, operational, associates as follows: compliance and risk management.
the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of of the management agreement and receives regular internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that the Board reviews a report, which is also independently financial information used within the business, or published, reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of its is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: and manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, the Directors review every six months an independent but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material report on the internal controls and the operations of misstatement or loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms administrative services are provided to the Company by that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal of internal control for the year ended 31st December 2009, and control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls During the course of its review of the system of internal control, established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has department of JPMAM which reports any material failings or not been considered appropriate.
This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control Corporate Governance and Voting Policy are as follows: The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on the Board of key investment and financial data, including corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on transactions and performance comparisons.
request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a go to www.
co. uk institutional and manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a section Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in on Corporate Governance.
28 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp19 31 11 3 10 9:23 am Page 29 JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment Corporate Social Responsibility performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the corporate governance principles and practices of the Board: companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial in the management of their business.
interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance non financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the can have an economic impact and that any company run in the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our environment and society as a whole.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the take these factors into account as part of any investment meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and By order of the Board transparency, board composition and independence, control AK Norman, for and on behalf of structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK Limited, issues.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting Secretary decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of 11th March 2010 its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
JPMAMs voting policies have been discussed in some detail with the Manager in New York.
All votes cast against resolutions are reported to the Board.
