Corporate Governance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Compliance independent professional advice if necessary and at the The Company is committed to high standards of Corporate Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Director has to the advice and services of the Secretary, Directors Responsibilities on page 29, indicates how the JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring Company has applied the principles of good governance adherence to Board procedures and compliance with 1 of the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code 2008 applicable rules and regulations.
the Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate 1 Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the Board Composition Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice The Board, chaired by James Long, consists of five nonfor investment trusts.
executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of independent.
The Chairmans independence was assessed corporate governance and considers that the Company has upon his appointment and annually thereafter.
The Directors complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined have a breadth of investment knowledge, business and Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys and with the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
business and brief biographical details of each Director are set out on page 15.
Role of the Board A review of Board composition and balance is included as part A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
Alun Evans, the Senior Independent This includes management of the Companys assets and the Director, leads the evaluation of the performance of the provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration, Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters Chairman.
reserved to the Board for decision has previously been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Tenure Companys investment objectives and policy and its future Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of structure, appointment and removal of third party service Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
providers, review of key investment and financial data and the Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of three Companys Corporate Governance and risk control years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out each arrangements.
year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director timely information is provided to the Board to enable it from seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge the Board will take into account the ongoing requirements of their responsibilities.
the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Companys Articles of Association On an annual basis each Director submits a list of potential require that Directors stand for re-election at least every three conflicts of interest for approval.
Any Director who has served for a period of more than carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding nine years will stand for annual re-election.
them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved for a period of one year.
During the year the potential conflicts The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set of interest were reviewed and considered by the Board.
out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are However, in future years they will be reviewed by the available for inspection on request at the Companys Nomination Committee which will then make a registered office and at the AGM.
recommendation to the Board on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
1 Copies of the Combined Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 24 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Board recommends the re-election of James Long, who The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, of its is subject to annual re-election as he has served as a Director own performance and that of its Committees and individual of the Company for a period in excess of nine years.
External consultants may be used from time to time.
recommending the re-election of Mr Long, the Nomination For the current year, questionnaires were completed by each Committee conducted a thorough review of his performance Director.
The responses were discussed at a private meeting.
as Chairman and were satisfied that he continues to The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, demonstrate effective leadership of the Company.
Furthermore, and the Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of having been appointed during the year, on 10th August 2009, the Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates James Strachan will stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
the Manager, its own performance and that of its Committees.
The Board recommends his election.
Board Committees Meetings and Committees Nomination Committee The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to The Nomination Committee, chaired by James Long, consists Committees.
Details of membership of Committees are shown of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure with the Directors profiles on page 15.
Directors who are not that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and Chairman.
propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
During the year there were five Board meetings, plus a A variety of sources, including external search consultants, separate meeting devoted to strategy, two Audit Committee may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates is meetings, three Nomination Committee meetings and a considered.
The Board engaged the services of a recruitment number of additional Board meetings held in connection with consultancy with regard to the appointment of Mr Strachan.
the Companys bonus issue of Subscription shares.
The Nomination Committee also reviews the levels of The table below details the number of Board and Committee remuneration of the Directors taking into account both boards meetings attended by each Director.
of other trusts and corporate salaries to ensure that high quality people are attracted and retained.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Strategy Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Audit Committee Director Attended Attended Attended Attended The Audit Committee, chaired by Andrew Sykes, consists of all Alun Evans 5 2 1 3 Directors and meets at least twice each year.
The members of Ronald Gould 5 2 1 3 the Audit Committee consider that they have the requisite James Long 5 2 1 3 skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the 1 James Strachan Committee.
Andrew Sykes 5 2 1 3 The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the 1 James Strachan was appointed to the Board on 10th August 2009 and Manager in relation to the Half Year Report and Annual Report attended his first meetings after the Companys year end.
& Accounts and the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement and Training and Appraisal examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, receives information from the Managers compliance On appointment, the Manager provides all Directors with department and also reviews the scope and results of the induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence on changes in regulatory requirements that affect the and objectivity of the external auditors.
In the Directors Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend opinion the Auditors are considered independent.
industry and other seminars covering issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the Half Year Report and the Annual Report & Accounts are considered.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 25 Corporate Governance continued The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal Internal Control control is set out below.
The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of Terms of Reference internal control and to report to shareholders that they have Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the have written terms of reference which define clearly their Board has identified as including business, financial, respective responsibilities, copies of which are available for operational, compliance and risk management.
inspection on request at the Companys registered office and The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that Relations with Shareholders financial information used within the business, or published, The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve understanding of the Companys activities and performance business objectives and therefore can only provide and report formally to shareholders quarterly each year by reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, way of the Annual Report & Accounts, the Half Year Report material mis-statement or loss.
and two Interim Management Statements.
This is Since investment management, custody of assets and all supplemented by the daily publication, through the London administrative services are provided to the Company by Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal shares.
control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys representatives of the Manager are available in person to business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal meet shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit a presentation is usually given by the investment managers department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept under annual who review the Companys performance.
the Companys brokers, the investment managers and The key elements designed to provide effective internal JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
control are as follows: The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves available as Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by and when required to address shareholder queries.
the Board of key investment and financial data, including The Directors may be contacted through the Secretary management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of whose details are shown on page 65. transactions and performance comparisons.
The Companys Annual Report & Accounts is published in time Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit a written agreement.
questions via the Companys website or write to the Secretary Management Systems The Managers system of internal at the address shown on page 65. control includes organisational agreements which clearly Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs General Meeting.
compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
26 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, Proxy voting is an important part of the Corporate Governance keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the system of internal control by monitoring the operation of voting rights of the shares entrusted to us, as we would the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a as follows: prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial reviews the terms of the management agreement and interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at receives regular reports from JPMAMs compliance all of the meetings called by companies in which we are department: invested.
reviews the report on the internal controls and the In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key itself independently reviewed: and corporate governance issues, including disclosure and reviews every six months an independent report on the transparency, board composition and independence, control internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
structures, director independence and remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues.
These guidelines form the By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case Companys system of internal control for the year ended by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances 30th September 2009, and to the date of approval of this of each vote.
During the course of its review of the system of internal Corporate Social Responsibility control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the be significant.
Board: Corporate Governance and Voting Policy We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy non-financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, statement on corporate governance and voting policy can have an economic impact and that any company run in the which has been noted by the Board.
The full policy is available long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage from JPMAM on request, or can be downloaded from effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and the internet as follows: go to customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the www.
co. uk institutional environment and society as a whole.
Our investment and within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will managers take these factors into account as part of any find a section on Corporate Governance.
JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the Corporate Governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management of their business.
