Corporate Governance Compliance Board Composition The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board, chaired by Elisabeth Airey, consists of five nongovernance.
This statement, together with the Statement of executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as Directors Responsibilities on page 30, indicates how the independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors have a Company has applied the principles of good governance of the breadth of investment, knowledge, business and financial Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the Combined skills and experience relevant to the Companys business Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC and brief biographical details of each Director are set out on Code, which complements the Combined Code and provides page 18. a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
A review of Board composition and balance is included as part The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of corporate governance and considers that the Company has which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined a senior independent director should be appointed and has Code, other than in respect of the provision relating to the concluded that, as the Board comprises entirely of nonappointment of a senior independent director, and the AIC executive directors, this is unnecessary.
The Chairman of the Code throughout the year under review.
Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairman.
Role of the Board Tenure A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of This includes management of the Companys assets and the Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a maximum and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is reserved for Board decision has been approved.
This includes appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
determination and monitoring of the Companys investment The Board does not believe that length of service in itself objectives and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take removal of third party service providers, review of key into account the requirements of the Combined Code, investment and financial data and the Companys corporate including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
governance and risk control arrangements.
The Companys Articles of Association require that Directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
Any Director The Board meets at least five times during the year and who has served for a period of more than nine years will additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely stand for annual re-election thereafter.
information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set responsibilities.
out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
independent professional advice, if necessary, and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every The Board confirms that Elisabeth Airey, Paul Manduca and Director has to the advice and services of the Company Michael Wrobel, who retire by rotation at this years Annual Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for General Meeting, continue to be effective Directors and ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that demonstrate commitment to their role and therefore applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 25 Corporate Governance continued Meetings and Committees The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes with the Directors profiles on page 18.
Directors who are not recommendations to the Board as and when required.
members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the Chairman.
Audit Committee The table below details the number of Board and Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Anthony Davidson, consists meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there of all the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and The members of the Audit Committee consider that they have one Nomination Committee meeting.
the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities Audit Nomination of the Committee.
Board Committee Committee Meetings Meeting Meeting The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Director Attended Attended Attended Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews Elisabeth Airey 5 2 1 the terms of the management agreement and examines the Anthony Davidson 5 2 1 effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, Paul Manduca 5 2 1 receives information from the Managers Compliance Federico Marescotti 5 2 1 department and reviews the scope and results of the external Michael Wrobel 5 2 1 audit, its cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and non-audit services and the independence and objectivity of the external Training and Appraisal auditors: in the Directors opinion the auditors are considered independent.
Representatives of the Companys auditors On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter Report and Accounts are considered.
During the year, the regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory Committee reviewed the Managers internal audit requirements that affect the Company and the Directors.
arrangements and its whistleblowing policy.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering issues and developments relevant to The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal investment trusts.
control is set out on page 27.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, its Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee own performance and of that of its committees and individual have written terms of reference which define clearly their Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, are respective responsibilities, copies of which are available on completed by each Director.
The responses are collated and the Companys website, on request at the Companys then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of registered office and at the Companys Annual General individual Directors is led by the Chairman.
Committee Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, Relations with Shareholders its own performance and that of its committees.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full Board Committees understanding of the Companys activities and performance Nomination Committee and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by way of the annual report and accounts, the half year financial The Nomination Committee, chaired by Elisabeth Airey, report and two interim management statements.
This is consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to supplemented by the daily publication, through the London ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and shares.
propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
26 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys weaknesses.
The key elements designed to provide effective Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and internal control are as follows: representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, a the Board of key investment and financial data, including presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys transactions and performance comparisons.
brokers, the investment managers and JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, themselves available as and when required to address whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through agreement.
the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 50.
Management Systems The Managers system of internal The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in control includes organisational agreements which clearly time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Compliance Department which regularly monitors compliance questions via the Companys website or write to the Company with FSA rules.
Secretary at the address shown on page 50.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual Board.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system Internal Control of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, operating controls of the Manager and its associates as to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of follows: internal control and to report to shareholders that they have reviews the terms of the management agreement and done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance Board has identified as including business, financial, department: operational, compliance and risk management.
reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself internal control, which is designed to safeguard the Companys independently reviewed: and assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that financial information used within the business, or published, reviews every six months an independent report on the is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms business objectives and therefore can only provide that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, of internal control for the year ended 31st March 2009 and to material misstatement or loss.
the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all During the course of its review of the system of internal administrative services are provided to the Company by control, the Board has not identified or been advised of any JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided significant.
by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM which reports any material failings or JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 27 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Corporate Social Responsibility The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted Board: by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns go to www.
co. uk institutional and consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a section non-financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, on Corporate Governance.
can have an economic impact and that any company run in the JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the corporate governance principles and practices of the environment and society as a whole.
Our investment companies in which we invest our clients assets and we managers take these factors into account as part of any expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of investment decision.
governance in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues see below.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
28 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
