Corporate Governance Compliance Board Composition The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board, chaired by Roy Reynolds, consists of between five governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of and seven non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded Directors Responsibilities on page 31, indicates how the by the Board as independent of the Companys Manager, Company has applied the principles of good governance of the including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of Financial Reporting Council Combined Code 2008 the investment knowledge, business and financial skills and Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, experience relevant to the Companys business and brief the AIC Code, which complements the Combined Code and biographical details of each Director are set out on page 16 provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of corporate governance and considers that the Company has of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined which may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is and of the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Role of the Board Anatole Kaletsky is founding partner and Chief Economist of A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM Gavekal Research, whose clients include JPMorgans Treasury sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
The Board does not believe this connection influences This includes management of the Companys assets and the Mr Kaletskys independence as a Director of this Company.
provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved Tenure for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of includes determination and monitoring of the Companys Association, it is required that they be re-elected by investment objectives and policy and its future strategic shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, a term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation appointment and removal of third party service providers, carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is review of key investment and financial data and the Companys appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election but, additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely when making a recommendation, the Board will take into information is provided to the Board to enable it to function account the ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Companys Articles of Association require that Directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
Any Director There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent who has served for a period of more than nine years will stand professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered complied with.
office and at the Annual General Meeting.
26 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 As a result of the Boards evaluation process described below, the Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the it confirms that Percy Mistry and Anatole Kaletsky, who stand Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the for election re-election at this years Annual General Meeting, Manager, its own performance and that of its Committees.
continue to be effective Directors and the Board recommends their election re-election.
Board Committees Nomination Committee Meetings and Committees The Nomination Committee, chaired by Roy Reynolds, consists The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, with the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose Committee by invitation.
suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
A variety of sources, including the use of external search consultants, The table below details the number of Board and Committee may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates are meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there considered.
Search consultants were used in the recruitment were five Board meetings, plus a meeting of the Directors to of Nigel Kenny and Percy Mistry.
evaluate the Manager two Audit Committee meetings, a Nomination Committee meeting and a Remuneration The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation Committee meeting.
to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Audit Remuneration Nomination Board.
Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Remuneration Committee Director Attended Attended Attended Attended The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Roy Reynolds, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the David Gamble 5 2 1 1 levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Anatole Kaletsky 5 1 1 1 Audit Committee and other Directors, taking into account both 2 Nigel Kenny 4 2 boards of other investment trusts and corporate salaries 3 Percy Mistry 21 generally to ensure that high quality people are attracted and Valentine Powell 5 2 1 1 retained.
1 Roy Reynolds 5 1 1 1 Audit Committee Alan Saunders 52 1 1 The Audit Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders and whose 1 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 12th September 2007, Mr. Reynolds membership is set out on pages 16 and 17, meets at least twice now attends by invitation.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that 2 Appointed as a Director on 1st September 2008. they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the 3 Appointed as a Director on 1st January 2009. responsibilities of the Committee.
At least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Training and Appraisal The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the The Manager and Company Secretary provide all Directors Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and with induction training on appointment.
Thereafter, regular the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements the terms of the management agreement and examines the that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering receives information from the Managers Compliance issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
department and also reviews the scope and results of the The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence the Manager, its own performance and of that of its committees and objectivity of the external auditors.
Representatives of the and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Companys auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting at Board, are completed by each Director.
The responses are which the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and control is set out below.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 Corporate Governance continued Terms of Reference The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of The Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees all have internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys written terms of reference which define clearly their respective assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that responsibilities, copies of which are available on the Companys financial information used within the business, or published, website and for inspection on request at the Companys is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to registered office and at the Companys Annual General manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Meeting.
business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material Relations with Shareholders misstatement or loss.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Since investment management, custody of assets and all Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full administrative services are provided to the Company by understanding of the Companys activities and performance JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal the net asset value of the Companys shares.
audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept under review.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the The key elements designed to provide effective internal control Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in are as follows: person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager the Board of key investment and financial data, including who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of brokers, the Investment Manager and JPMAM hold regular transactions and performance comparisons.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and themselves available as and when required to address custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written the Secretary whose details are shown on page 65. agreement.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in Management Systems The Managers system of internal time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of control includes organisational agreements which clearly the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs questions via the Companys website or write to the Company Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance Secretary at the address shown on page 65. with FSA rules.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the General Meeting.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, Internal Control keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
reviews the terms of the management agreement and This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance identified as including business, financial, operational, department: compliance and risk management.
28 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable independently reviewed: and judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the reviews every six months an independent report on the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the corporate governance issues, including disclosure and Companys system of internal control for the year ended transparency, board composition and independence, control 30th June 2009 and to the date of approval of this Annual structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental Report and Accounts.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy During the course of its review of the system of internal control, voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Corporate Social Responsibility The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on The text below is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted Board: by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns go to www.
co. uk institutional and consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a section nonfinancial issues, such as social and environmental issues, on Corporate Governance.
can have an economic impact and that any company run in the JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment long term interests of its shareholders will need to manage performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the corporate governance principles and practices of the environment and society as a whole.
Our investment managers companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect take these factors into account as part of any investment those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance decision.
in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
