7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:28 Page 44 44 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board of BTG recognises that good corporate managed.
The board should set the strategic aims governance is essential to running a successful company of the company, ensure the necessary financial and and is committed to ensuring that high levels of corporate human resources are in place for the company to meet governance are maintained that underpin the management its objectives and review management performance.
UK-listed companies are required The board should set the companys values and standards by the Financial Services Authority to report on their and ensure its obligations to its shareholders and others governance practices and the extent to which they comply are understood and met.
with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, published in June 2006 by the There should be a clear division of responsibilities between Financial Reporting Council FRC.
the running of the board and executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
The board should The Board considers that the Company complied with all include a balance of executive and non-executive directors the provisions of the Code throughout the year to 31 March and in particular independent non-executive directors 2009.
More information on the Code can be found on the such that no individual or group of individuals may FRC website, www.
dominate the boards decision making.
The information set out below explains how the Company The BTG Board currently comprises a non-executive complies with the Codes main principles and detailed Chairman, two executive directors, the Chief Executive provisions.
Officer CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO, together with a further five independent non-executive directors Board composition, responsibilities and balance including a Senior Independent Director.
Their names, Each company should be headed by an effective board together with brief biographical details, are set out on pages which is collectively responsible for the success of the 40 and 41.
The table below details the composition of the company.
The role of the board is to provide entrepreneurial Board and its committees, together with their attendance leadership of the company within a framework of prudent at meetings since the last Annual Report and the Companys and effective controls which allow risk to be assessed and assessment of the independence of the directors.
Board and committee composition Committee Board Nomination Audit Remuneration and attendance memberships Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 13 3 3 5 Executive directors Louise Makin CEO No 13 13 a Christine Soden CFO COO No 12 12 b Rolf Soderstrom CFO No 3 3 Non-executive directors c John Brown Nom No 13 13 Chair 3 3 d Colin Blakemore Aud, Rem Yes 13 13 3 3 5 5 Peter Chambr Rem, Nom Yes 9 13 2 3 2 5 e Consuelo Brooke Rem, Nom Yes 1 2 0 0 0 0 f William Jenkins Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 13 13 0 0 3 3 Chair 5 5 g Giles Kerr Aud, Nom Yes 13 13 3 3 Chair 3 3 h James OShea Rem, Nom Yes 1 1 1 1 i Alison Wood Aud, Rem Yes 2 2 0 0 0 0 a Christine Soden moved from Chief Financial Officer to Chief Operating Officer on 4 December 2008 and resigned as a director on 31 March 2009. b Rolf Soderstrom joined the Board on 4 December 2008 as Chief Financial Officer.
c John Brown is not considered to be independent by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Company.
d Colin Blakemore joined the Audit Committee on 16 July 2008. e Consuelo Brooke resigned from the Board, committees and as Senior Independent Director at the AGM on 16 July 2008. f William Jenkins left the Nomination Committee and joined the Remuneration Committee as Chairman on 16 July 2008. g Giles Kerr joined the Nomination Committee and became Senior Independent Director on 16 July 2008 following the retirement of Consuelo Brooke at the 2008 AGM.
h James OShea joined the Board on 2 April 2009 and was appointed to the Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 13 May 2009. i Alison Wood resigned from the Board and its committees at the AGM on 16 July 2008. j The Chairman, CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend part or all of the Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings.
The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings.
7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:28 Page 45 45 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy Information and training, performance evaluation itself that its non-executive directors remain independent.
and re-election of directors The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive The board should be supplied in a timely manner with directors every year, using its own judgement when information in a form and of a quality appropriate to applying the criteria in the Combined Code.
Having enable it to discharge its duties.
All directors should receive undertaken this review, the Board confirms that all the noninduction on joining the board and should regularly update executive directors are considered to be independent in and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The board should character and judgement.
The Chairman, John Brown, was undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own considered to be independent at the date of appointment performance and that of its committees.
All directors should although, in line with best practice, he is no longer deemed be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject independent in light of his role as Chairman of the Company.
The board should ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the board.
Whilst the executive and non-executive directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Company The directors are sent an agenda and a full set of papers and have fiduciary duties towards shareholders, their roles for each item to be discussed, in advance of each Board are strictly delineated.
The executive directors have direct or Committee meeting.
Additional information is provided responsibility for the business operations of the Company, as appropriate and senior executives regularly make the non-executive directors have a responsibility to bring presentations at Board meetings on the results and independent and objective judgement to Board decisions strategies in their areas of responsibility.
and the Chairmans primary responsibility is for the effective running of the Board.
The non-executives duties Upon joining BTG each director receives a comprehensive include helping to develop the Companys strategy and induction package, including written information and constructively challenging the executive directors where opportunities to meet key and relevant members of staff.
All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through publications and conferences and through information The Board as a whole monitors operating performance, provided by the Company and its advisers.
the performance of management, succession planning, health, safety and environmental performance and The Board evaluates its own effectiveness and that of its standards of ethical and social behaviour.
It is also Committees on an annual basis, both through measuring responsible for developing robust corporate governance performance against annual objectives and through and risk management procedures aimed at safeguarding an individual appraisal process.
The Chairman of each the Companys reputation and assets and the integrity Committee reports the results of the reviews back to the of its financial information.
Board with identified areas for future action.
Matters specifically reserved to the Board for decision or The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of approval include the approval of the interim and annual the CFO, the Chairman and non-executive directors review financial statements, the interim management statements the performance of the CEO.
Each director was asked and major public announcements, setting strategic to complete a questionnaire comprising both qualitative direction, budgets and long-term plans.
Other areas and quantitative responses.
The Chairman, John Brown, include the approval of major investments and disposals, subsequently interviewed each director separately to major capital expenditure, major litigation, significant discuss individual performance as a director over the past financing, dividend policy and senior executive year and the effectiveness of the Committees and the remuneration and appointments.
Board as a whole, and how it might improve its monitoring of the business.
The Committees also reviewed their There is an agreed procedure for directors to take performance and reported the results to the Chairman independent professional advice, if necessary, at the and the Board as a whole.
The operation of the Board Companys expense.
Directors have direct access to the and its members was felt to be effective and the Board advice and services of the Company Secretary who considered it had a good mix of experience and skills.
The is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are non-executive directors meet at least once a year without followed.
The Company arranges appropriate directors the executive directors in order to discuss the performance and officers liability insurance.
The removal of a director of the executive directors and any concerns over their or of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board management of the Companys affairs.
7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:28 Page 46 46 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued All directors are required to stand for election at the first The criteria applied by the directors in judging the AGM following their appointment and then to be re-elected effectiveness of these controls are that they allow the at least once every three years thereafter.
The Board maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business reviews its constitution regularly and has established opportunities whilst ensuring that risks are properly a clear plan for refreshing its members.
During the year identified and managed.
The controls are regularly ended 31 March 2008 Sir Brian Fender retired and was reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper replaced as Chairman by John Brown.
Fred Weiss retired, management of business risks without so restricting having served for two three-year terms, and was replaced efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit as chairman of the Audit Committee by Giles Kerr, and proper running of the business.
Colin Blakemore was also appointed as a director.
At the 2008 AGM Consuelo Brooke retired from the Board, having BTG has a management structure with clear lines of served for two three-year terms and Alison Wood retired responsibility and accountability, staffed by appropriate due to other commitments.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall Soderstrom joined the Board following the acquisition of strategy and reviewing the performance of the Group.
Protherics and Christine Soden retired on 31 March 2009.
Following the year end, on 2 April 2009, James OShea The day to day running of BTGs operations is managed was appointed to the Board.
After these changes the by the Companys Senior Leadership Team, chaired by the Board will be comprised of the non-executive Chairman, CEO.
Other members include the CFO and senior staff five independent non-executive directors, the CEO and members from the business.
This team is also responsible CFO.
Details of the three directors standing for election for the recommendation to the Board of the Companys at the 2009 AGM are set out on page 42. strategy and its subsequent implementation, for ensuring that appropriate internal controls are in place to manage Financing reporting and internal control and assess risk and that they are fully complied with.
The board should present a balanced and understandable view of the companys position and prospects and should The Company set up an Integration Committee, at the time maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard of the acquisition, to manage all aspects of bringing the shareholders investment and the companys assets.
This committee has continued to operate until the year-end.
The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the financial statements is set out The review of risk and risk management is embedded on page 65 and the auditors statement on the respective throughout the Group.
Following the acquisition of Protherics responsibilities of directors and the auditor is included a senior team, chaired by the CFO and including staff from within its report set out on pages 66 and 67. all sections of the enlarged business, was set up to review the risks of the enlarged Group and to identify and evaluate Communications with shareholders, be they results risks which may impact on the Groups strategic and announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM business objectives.
The risk team has developed a risk and trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved management plan that identifies the key risks.
The plan is by the Board or a sub-committee thereof in order to ensure designed to assess the probability of those risks occurring, they are transparent and balanced in the view they give of the impact should they occur, how such risks may be the Companys progress and prospects.
mitigated and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for managing the risks.
Having completed The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the the risk review the new team will also be responsible for Group maintains an adequate system of internal control the continual monitoring of risk and the progress of actions and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
designed to mitigate such risks.
The risk team meets The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes quarterly to review progress and reports its findings the detailed monitoring of the controls and reports to the twice-yearly through the Audit Committee to the Board.
The Board has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial controls for the year The Board has reviewed the risk management process under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual and confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage that BTG continues to be compliant with the Turnbull rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business guidance as contained in Internal Control: Guidance for objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Directors on the Combined Code.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 47 47 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The fundamental elements of the Groups internal control Corporate policies, values and compliance and risk management framework are described below.
A statement of corporate values and a guidance booklet on ethics, business practices and compliance are distributed Structure and reporting throughout the Group.
Relevant employees meet regularly to Under the operating guidance of the Senior Leadership discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and financial Team, BTG is organised into a number of business and environments in which BTG operates to ensure it remains operating units and within these there are defined fully compliant with new legislation and best practice.
management structures and processes for acquisition, assessment and evaluation of technology opportunities, The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed and development and execution of commercialisation the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.
controls described above operate and are embedded within the day to day business.
There is an ongoing process The Group has two committees containing senior for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks members of staff who review all stages of its development faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place operations: a committee responsible for the review and throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the recommendation of potential acquisitions or in-licensing financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the of new drug programmes and a committee responsible directors in accordance with the Code.
for the review and proactive management of all projects in BTGs development portfolio.
These committees report As required by the Code, the Board has considered regularly to the Senior Leadership Team and are able whether it would be appropriate to have a dedicated to call on the expertise of various internal and external internal audit function within the Group and has concluded experts to ensure the programmes are developed that, taking into account its relatively small size, and the effectively and meet commercial and market needs.
way the business is run, this is not appropriate at present.
This decision will be reviewed on an annual basis.
BTG actively monitors its revenue streams from partnered The internal audit process is under review.
The finance products and from time to time audits its major licensees function of each office will monitor and review controls on to ensure compliance with the terms of agreements.
Each office will also be visited once a year BTG also has a system for supporting the protection and by head office finance staff.
Internal audit work will focus maintenance of patents.
on reviewing and testing key internal controls in the most important areas of expenditure, revenue and business The Senior Leadership Team meets formally at least once processes.
The results are reported to the Board, via the each month to review business performance measured Audit Committee, twice a year.
against annual budgets and longer-term plans and an agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each Related parties and conflicts of interest business unit.
Reporting to the Board is based on these BTG maintains robust procedures to ensure that related monthly reviews including non-financial as well as financial party transactions and potential conflicts of interest are information and a review of development progress within identified, disclosed and managed.
include: directors declare interests in other businesses on appointment to the Board and annual self-certification Approval procedures by directors.
Where it is identified that a related party BTG has delegated authority structures that ensure that relationship exists, the Board agrees specific additional decisions are taken at an appropriate level, with an procedures to ensure the effective management of appropriate level of input by internal and external expert potential conflicts of interest.
The delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at each level and requires Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of BTG plc, is also the decisions with significant financial, legal or reputational Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director impact for BTG to be approved by the Board.
of Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oxford University.
BTG plcs wholly owned subsidiaries BTG International Ltd and British Technology Group Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd have pre-existing licence agreements with Oxford University and Isis Innovations under which they are obliged to pay royalties on amounts received from commercialising certain Intellectual Property.
7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 48 48 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued As a non-executive director of BTG plc, Giles Kerr will The directors receive a regular investor relations briefing not participate in any discussions concerning the relevant at each Board meeting giving information on the changes agreements either within the Board meetings of BTG plc in shareholdings and any feedback from the Companys or in any other discussions or meetings with the executives brokers and investors.
Following the twice-yearly results of BTG plc and its subsidiaries.
announcements, detailed feedback is obtained from external advisers and brokers and reported to the Board, Within Oxford University and Isis Innovations Limited, Giles detailing the views and reactions of investors and analysts.
Kerr will not participate in any other discussions concerning The opportunity for shareholders to meet the Chairman or the relevant agreements.
Senior Independent Director, separately from the executive directors, is available on request.
The Board has considered and is satisfied with this separation of duties.
See page 115 for additional related The Annual Report contains a full business review and the party disclosures.
interim report gives an update at the half year.
Extensive information, including annual and interim reports, interim Market abuse directive management statements and all press releases, is As required by the Market Abuse Directive, the Company published on the Companys website www.
com has set up a Disclosure Committee, comprising the CEO, for access by all shareholders.
In addition, through the CFO and one other senior member of staff.
The Committee website, individuals can register to receive electronic copies meets quarterly and on an ad hoc basis in between as of all Company announcements on the day they are issued.
The Committee reviews all significant items of business within the Group on a regular basis and maintains The AGM is the principal opportunity for private an Insider List recording both those employed within shareholders to meet and discuss the Groups business the Group and at external advisers who may have access with the directors and other senior management.
Whenever individuals are placed business presentation is given and there is an open on or removed from the List they are notified accordingly question and answer session during which shareholders and advised of their responsibilities.
may ask questions both about the resolutions being proposed and the business in general.
Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the AGM Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which will be held There should be a dialogue with shareholders based at 10.30 am on 15 July 2009, at the offices of Ashurst LLP, on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA, is a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory included with this report.
The Notice of the Annual General dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The board Meeting is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days should use the AGM to communicate with investors and before the meeting.
The Directors Report on pages 42 encourage their participation.
and 43 summarises the main resolutions and the letter accompanying the Notice of the Annual General Meeting BTG endeavours to maintain good communications includes details of the resolutions and explanatory notes with shareholders through formal and informal dialogue.
A proxy form is enclosed with this report for use The Company formally reports its results twice a year with by those members of the Company unable to attend.
Crest full year results announced in May and interim results in members may send their proxy votes to the Companys November.
The CEO and CFO give presentations of these Registrars electronically.
results to the Companys institutional shareholders, analysts and the media.
The presentations are broadcast live on the At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, internet for the information of shareholders and are available against and withheld in respect of each resolution will be thereafter as an archive on the Companys website.
disclosed and subsequently published on BTGs website.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination In addition, the Company prepares Interim Management Committees will be present at the AGM to answer Statements that are released to the UK Listing Authority shareholders questions.
and are available on the Companys website, or from the Company on request.
7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 49 49 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee and auditor Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The board should establish formal and transparent The Board considers that the Company complied in full arrangements for considering how it should apply the with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined financial reporting and internal control principles and Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2009.
Details of for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the directors remuneration, as required by the Combined Code companys auditor.
and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 64.
BTG has an established Audit Committee with the principal responsibilities of overseeing financial reporting and The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit plc, is required to internal control matters and maintaining appropriate review whether this corporate governance statement relations with the Companys auditor.
reflects the Companys compliance with nine of the Codes provisions as specified in the Listing Rules of the FSA, Details of the members of the Audit Committee, all of relating to Accountability and Audit.
Having conducted whom are considered by the Company to be independent such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers non-executive directors, plus information on attendance, this statement of compliance does not reflect such is set out in the table on page 44.
The terms of reference compliance and the Company confirms that no such of the Audit Committee can be found on the Companys report has been made.
website or from the Company on request.
These terms of reference reflect the recommendations of The Smith Dr John Brown Guidance.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Chairman Committee, the CEO, CFO, Chairman and external auditor attend part or all of its meetings.
The Company Secretary 13 May 2009 or his deputy acts as secretary for the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Giles Kerr who, in the opinion of the Board, has the necessary significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee Chairman receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his responsibilities, as set out on page 57.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on page 50.
Appointments to the Board There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Brown.
Membership of the Committee and members attendance at meetings is set out in the table on page 44.
The Committee terms of reference can be found on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
The prime responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are reviewing the size and composition of the Board: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of executive and non-executive directors, and their re-appointment following retirement by rotation: and for ensuring that succession planning is in place.
The Committee also advises the Board on matters generally relating to Board appointments and meets as required but at least twice a year.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on page 51.
