Corporate Governance Compliance knowledge, business and financial skills and experience The Company is committed to high standards of corporate relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of details of each Director are set out on page 40.
Directors Responsibilities on page 55, indicates how the A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Company has applied the principles of good governance of the of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the Combined which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC a senior independent director should be appointed and has Code, which complements the Combined Code and provides a concluded that, as the Board comprises entirely of nonframework of best practice for investment trusts.
executive directors, this is unnecessary at present.
However, The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of the Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of corporate governance and considers that the Company has the performance of the Chairman and is available to complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, through discussion with the Chairman.
and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
Tenure Role of the Board Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
includes management of the Companys assets and the Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of three provision of accounting, company secretarial, administrative, years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out each and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director includes determination and monitoring of the Companys from seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, investment objectives and policy and its future strategic the Board will take into account the ongoing requirements of direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board appointment and removal of third party service providers, and its Committees.
The Companys Articles of Association review of key investment and financial data and the Companys require that Directors stand for re-election at least every three corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
Any Director who has served for a period of more than nine years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set information is provided to the Board to enable it to function out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their available for inspection on request at the Companys registered responsibilities.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent The Board recommends the election of Stephen Goldman and professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
the re-election of Ferdinand Verdonck and Robin Faber, who This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the retire by rotation at this years AGM.
advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is Meetings and Committees responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown complied with.
with the Directors profiles on page 40.
Board Composition The table below details the number of Board and Committee The Board, chaired by Andrew Murison, consists of five meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the were five full Board meetings, including a private meeting of Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including the the Directors to evaluate the Manager and a separate meeting Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment devoted to strategy.
There were also two Audit Committee JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 49 T H E C O M P A N Y Corporate Governance continued meetings and one meeting of the Nomination Committee Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes during the year.
recommendations to the Board as and when appropriate.
Audit Nomination Audit Committee Board Committee Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Robin Faber, meets at least meetings meetings meetings twice each year.
The members of the Audit Committee Directors attended attended attended consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
Andrew Murison 5 2 1 The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Robin Faber 5 2 1 Manager in relation to the interim and annual accounts and the 1 Stephen Goldman 31 1 Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews the Stephen Russell 5 2 1 terms of the management agreement and examines the Ferdinand Verdonck 5 2 1 effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, 2 Alexander E Zagoreos 42 receives information from the Managers Compliance department and reviews the scope and results of the external 1 Appointed a Director on 1st September 2008.
2 audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and Retired from the Board on 31st December 2008. objectivity of the external auditors: in the Directors opinion, Training and Appraisal the auditors are considered independent.
Representatives of On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide the Companys auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular at which the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are control is set out below.
encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have written terms of reference which define clearly their The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, its respective responsibilities, copies of which are available for own performance and of that of its committees and individual inspection at the Companys website, on request at the Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, are Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual completed by each Director.
The responses are collated and General Meeting.
then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the Chairman Relations with Shareholders of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairmans The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full own performance and that of its committees.
understanding of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the Board Committees annual report and accounts and the half year Report.
This is Nomination Committee supplemented by the daily publication, through the London The Nomination Committee, chaired by Andrew Murison, Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to shares.
ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and A variety of sources, including the use of external search representatives of the Managers are available in person to consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide range of meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review the Companys performance.
During the year the The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation Companys brokers, the Investment Managers and JPMAM hold to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the 50 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written make themselves available as and when required to address agreement.
The Directors may be contacted through Management Systems The Managers system of internal the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 86. control includes organisational agreements which clearly The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write with FSA rules.
to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 86.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Details of the Proxy voting position on each resolution will be Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual Board.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, Internal Control keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal operating controls of the Managers and its associates as control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
follows: This encompasses a review of all controls: business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that the Board reviews the report on the internal controls and financial information used within the business, or published, the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to which is itself independently reviewed: and manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Directors review every six months an independent business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, report on the internal controls and the operations of but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misJPMAM.
By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board Since investment management, custody of assets and all confirms that in accordance with the Turnball guidance, it has administrative services are provided to the Company by reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal control for the year ended 31st March 2009, and to the date of control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys Corporate Governance and Voting Policy business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on department of JPMAM.
The key elements designed to provide corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted effective internal control are as follows: by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: go Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by to www.
co. uk institutional and the Board of key investment and financial data, including within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a section management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of on Corporate Governance.
Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51 T H E C O M P A N Y Corporate Governance continued JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment Corporate Social Responsibility performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the corporate governance principles and practices of the Board: companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns in the management of their business.
consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance non-financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the can have an economic impact and that any company run in the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our environment and society as a whole.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the take these factors into account as part of any investment meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues see below.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
52 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
