7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 51 51 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Nomination Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2009 Nomination Committee report The Committee has continued its review of Board The Committee reviews succession plans and plans for membership to ensure it has the right balance of experience emergency cover of key managers and directors on at least and expertise as the business develops and it is Company an annual basis.
policy to refresh Board membership on a regular basis.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried Following the acquisition of Protherics, Rolf Soderstrom, out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results Finance Director of Protherics joined the BTG Board as Chief and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
Financial Officer and Christine Soden moved to become Chief Operating Officer.
On 31 March 2009 Christine Soden Dr John Brown resigned from the Board.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Purchasing Protherics brought a manufacturing and sales operation to the Group.
Recognising that the Board did not have significant expertise in international sales, a decision was made to recruit a non-executive director with this experience.
After undertaking a detailed search process and interviewing a number of candidates, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of James OShea as a non-executive director and he joined the Board on 2 April 2009.
His biographical details may be found on page 41.
The Committee has employed external consultants to assist it in making the appointments.
Prior to any appointments being made, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, desired skills and capabilities required for the appointment.
It interviews candidates and produces a shortlist for a subsequent interview by all Board members.
Following their appointment the Committee ensures that all new directors receive a full induction programme.
As part of the induction process, the new director is given a full briefing on the financial history of the Company and details of operating plans, budgets and forecasts for future years.
Arrangements are also made for the director to meet with the heads of the various business units for an in-depth briefing on the areas in which the Company is involved.
A briefing on corporate governance and directors responsibilities may also be given and the opportunity to attend external courses is also available.
