7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:29 Page 50 50 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2009 Audit Committee report A summary of matters considered at the Committee since As part of the accounting for the acquisition of Protherics the last Annual Report and actions taken is shown below: PLC, the assets and liabilities of Protherics have to be Review of the Groups interim results to 30 September valued at fair value to the business.
The Committee carried 2008 and full year results to 31 March 2009 out a detailed review of the valuation of the various assets Review of the reports from the external auditor on the and liabilities acquired seeking input from appropriately interim and full year results to 31 March 2009 qualified external advisers as it deemed necessary.
Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee estimate for the full-year audit The Audit Committee reviews the overall performance of Review of trading updates issued by the Group and the auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement amendments thereto and remuneration.
The Committee reviewed the auditors Review of the valuation of the assets and liabilities proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the acquired as part of the Protherics acquisition audit of the results for the year to 31 March 2009 and also Appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis reviewed the non-audit work carried out by the Companys for the preparation of the financial statements auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, to ensure that such Review of risk management systems, internal controls services do not impair its independence or objectivity.
and fraud procedures KPMG may not be appointed to undertake any non-audit Review of the disclosures relating to material risks work without the approval of the Committee where the in the Business Review cost of the work is expected to exceed 50,000.
Assessment of the need for a dedicated internal audit function The auditor is appointed by the shareholders at the AGM Review of monitoring process for equity portfolio to ensure its independence.
The Audit Committee regularly and its valuation discusses the independence of the auditor and whether Considering report of internal review work covering there should be a need to rotate audit firms.
Given the employment and company law, the listing rules relative size of BTG to that of KPMG and that the lead audit and market abuse regulations partner is changed on a regular basis at least every five Completed effectiveness review years, the Audit Committee is presently satisfied that KPMG is independent in its reporting on the audit of the A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed Group and rotation of firms is not necessary.
monitoring of the interim and annual financial statements.
As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets with auditors report with management and the external auditor the auditor in the absence of the executive directors and and considers significant judgements and issues contained management.
in them, whether the financial statements comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards and if they As part of corporate governance, the Committee also present a balanced assessment of the Companys financial carried out a review of its effectiveness and reported position and prospects.
Following this discussion the the results and its recommendations for improvement Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the results of the to the Board.
Committees review to the full Board.
The external auditor generally meets with the non-executive directors at the Giles Kerr time when the half and full-year results are discussed.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems.
It also reviews the scope and results of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The Company currently has no dedicated internal audit function and the Committee reviews on an annual basis as to whether this is still appropriate.
However, internal review work is carried out each year focusing on key risk areas such as expenditure, revenue and business processes.
The results are reported to the Committee twice a year.
Internal audit compliance is included as part of the responsibilities of each local finance function and at least annually head office finance staff will visit each location to conduct testing of key controls in order to provide reports to the Audit Committee.
