Corporate Governance Compliance Board Composition The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board consists of five non-executive directors, all of whom governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of are regarded by the Board as independent of the Companys Directors Responsibilities on page 26, indicates how the Manager, including the Chairman.
Company has applied the principles of good governance of the A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the Combined of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC which may be found below.
Code, which complements the Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
The Board has considered whether a senior independent director should be appointed.
As the Board comprises entirely The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of of non-executive directors, the appointment of a senior Corporate Governance and considers that the Company has independent director is not considered necessary.
However, complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined the Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, the performance of the Chairman and is available to and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Role of the Board A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM Tenure sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual includes management of the Companys assets and the General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration, Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
All other matters are reserved Thereafter, Directors are required to submit themselves for refor the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters election at least every three years.
The Chairman will meet with reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This each Director before the Director is proposed for re-election, includes determination and monitoring of the Companys and subject to the evaluation of performance carried out each investment objectives and policy and its future strategic year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe appointment and removal of third party service providers, that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a director review of key investment and financial data and the Companys from seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
the Board will take into account the requirements of the The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
information is provided to the Board to enable it to function Any directors with more than nine years service will be effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their required to submit themselves annually for re-election.
regard, the Board recommends the re-election of Jeremy There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Paulson-Ellis who, having served in excess of nine years, retires professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the at this years AGM.
Jeremy Paulson-Ellis has a wealth of Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every experience in the financial sector and makes an invaluable Director has to the advice and services of the Company contribution to the workings of the Board and, as Chairman, Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for continues to demonstrate effective leadership of the Company.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 Corporate Governance continued Meetings and Committees necessary.
A variety of sources, including external search consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide range of The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to candidates is considered.
Details of membership of committees are shown with Directors profiles on page 14.
The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted The table below lists the number of Board and Committee sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes were four Board meetings, in addition to a meeting devoted to recommendations to the Board as and when required.
strategy, two Audit Committee meetings and a meeting of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
In addition there is Audit Committee regular contact between the Directors and the Manager and The Audit Committee chaired by Alan Barber and whose Company Secretary throughout the year.
membership is set out on page 14 meets at least twice each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they Nomination have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the and responsibilities of the committee.
The Committee reviews the Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee actions and judgements of management in relation to the half Meetings Meetings Meetings year and annual accounts and the Companys compliance with Director Attended Attended Attended the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys Alan Barber 4 2 1 internal control systems, receives information from the Andrew Fleming 5 2 1 Managers compliance department and also reviews the scope Jeremy Paulson-Ellis 5 2 1 and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the David Pearson 5 21 independence and objectivity of the external auditors: in the Directors opinion the auditors are considered independent.
Keith Percy 5 2 1 Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and Training and Appraisal accounts are considered.
The Directors statement on the On appointment the Manager and Company Secretary provide Companys system of internal control is set out below.
all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter regular Terms of Reference briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements The terms of reference for the Nomination and Remuneration that could affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are and Audit Committees copies of which are available for encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering inspection on the Companys website, on request at the issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Companys registered offices and at the Annual General The Board has agreed a procedure for the formal evaluation of Meeting.
its own performance and of that of its committees and individual directors.
The evaluation of individual directors is led Relations with Shareholders by the Chairman, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full as a whole evaluates its own performance and that of its understanding of the Companys activities and performance committees.
and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and Board Committee two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by Nomination and Remuneration Committee the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of The Board has established a Nomination and Remuneration the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Committee, which consists of the entire Board, and which All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to meets at least annually to ensure that the Board has a balance attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to Directors and representatives of the Manager are available to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when meet shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, a 22 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal brokers, the Investment Managers and JPMAM hold regular audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made department of JPMAM.
fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make The key elements designed to provide effective internal control themselves available as and when required to address are as follows: shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 57.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including The Companys Annual Report and Accounts are published in management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of transactions and performance comparisons.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and questions via the Company Secretary at the address shown on custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, page 57. whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of Management Systems The Managers system of internal the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise control includes organisational agreements which clearly questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control questions via the Companys website or write to the Company procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Secretary at the address shown on page 57. compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be published on the Company web site shortly after the Annual Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the General Meeting.
Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
Internal Control The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has reviews the terms of the management agreement and identified as including business, financial, operational, receives regular reports from JPMAMs compliance compliance and risk management.
department: The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that independently reviewed: and financial information used within the business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to reviews every six months an independent report on the manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the misstatement or loss.
Companys system of internal control for the year ended Since investment management, custody of assets and all 30th September 2009, and to the date of approval of this administrative services are provided to the Company by Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal During the course of its review of the system of internal control, control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Corporate Social Responsibility The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted Board: by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: go interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns to www.
co. uk institutional and consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that within the Commentary and Analysis tab you will find a non financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, section on Corporate Governance.
can have an economic impact and that any company run in the JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the corporate governance principles and practices of the environment and society as a whole.
Our investment managers companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect take these factors into account as part of any investment those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance decision.
in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance By order of the Board process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the AK Norman, for and on behalf of voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent Secretary and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable 20th November 2009 judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
24 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
