corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
review the Companys internal financial controls: This report describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in the revised Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Council the Code have been applied by the Company during the audit function: year ended 31 December 2009.
The Company confirms it has complied throughout 2009 with the provisions of the Code, a copy of which is make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment available at www.
of the external auditor: The Board monitor and review auditor independence: and The Board currently comprises a Chairman designate, an Interim Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other executive directors and four develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external non-executive directors who have wide experience and are, together auditor to supply non-audit services.
with the Chairman designate and the Interim Chairman, considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
The Committee Chairman holds preparatory meetings with the Mr J F Harris, who is currently acting as Interim Chairman but will Companys senior management and, when appropriate, the external retire from the board on 28 February 2010, has been designated as auditor prior to Committee meetings to discuss the items to be the senior independent director.
Following his retirement, the Chairman considered at the Committee meetings.
In addition, separate designate, Mr P G Rogerson, will become Chairman on 1 March discussions are held between the Committee and the external auditor 2010.
The appointment of a senior independent director to succeed without management present.
During the year the Committee met Mr J F Harris will be considered by the Board once Mr P G Rogerson on three occasions and its activities included: has taken over the role of Chairman.
None of the Companys nonexecutive directors had any previous connection with the Company or receiving and considering reports from the external auditor in relation its executive directors on appointment to the Board.
Brief biographical to the half year and annual financial statements: details of the directors are given on page 16 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Information relating to the conduct of reviewing the half year and annual financial statements and the Board meetings and the procedures implemented to ensure that the formal announcements relating thereto: Board retains overall control and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues are set out in the internal receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit control section below and in the Financial review on pages 17 to 19 in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
The Board has and reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees which comply with for the year: the provisions of the Code.
The Chief Executive is the designated member of the Board responsible for environmental, social and governance reviewing the Companys internal financial controls: matters and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the Board, reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, its Committees and individual directors overseen by the Chairman.
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial This includes completion of self-assessment forms by, and individual reporting or other matters: discussions with, each director.
Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman present at reviewing the Committees terms of reference: least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditor and the executive directors present.
These processes were carried out internal audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires satisfactorily during the year as a result of which the Board concluded by both the Board and senior management within the Company: that both it and its Committees are operating effectively.
Finally, the Chief Executive annually presents a management succession plan which is making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment discussed with the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Detailed of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of information concerning the directors remuneration is given in the engagement of the auditor: and Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 60. reviewing and approving the level and type of non-audit work which Audit Committee the external auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work.
The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr D J R Sleath who is considered by the The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains independent Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
While the of the Company and receives written confirmation from the external Chairman of the Company, the Finance Director and the Chief auditor as to whether it considers itself independent within the meaning Executive are not members of the Committee, they normally attend of its own internal and the relevant regulatory and professional meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of requirements.
Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor.
In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the external The Committees principal role is to: auditor is not compromised, the Committee has pre-approved the nonaudit service categories that can be provided by the external auditor monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and and agreed monetary amounts for each service category that can be review significant reporting judgements: provided by them, subject to a maximum individual engagement value.
A service requires specific authorisation from the Committee or the 06 corporate governance Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 Committee Chairman where it does not fall within the pre-approved Meetings attendance categories or where its value exceeds the maximum pre-approved The following table shows the attendance in 2009 of directors at individual engagement value.
Such non-audit service categories Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which which are pre-approved principally comprise tax services and further they are members: assurance services relating to pre-acquisition due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of Audit Remuneration Nomination businesses.
The Committee believes that given the external auditors Board Committee Committee Committee detailed knowledge of the Groups operations, its structure and Number of meetings 8 3 4 6 accounting policies and the importance of carrying out tax services M J Roney 8 and detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is often 1 J F Harris 8 1 2 6 appropriate for this additional work to be carried out by the Companys C A Banks 7 3 3 5 auditors.
However other firms are also used by the Company to provide 2 U Wolters 7 3 3 4 non-audit services and it is the Companys policy to assess the services P L Larmon 8 required on a case by case basis to ensure that the best placed adviser B M May 8 is retained.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditor in 2009 in P W Johnson 7 3 3 respect of the audit and for non-audit services are set out in Note 4 D J R Sleath 8 3 4 to the financial statements.
3 A J Habgood 4 3 As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the re-appointment 1.
Following his appointment as Interim Chairman on 1 July 2009, of the external auditor, the Committee takes into account the tenure Mr J F Harris ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration of the auditor and considers whether there should be a full tender Committees but continued to attend Committee meetings thereafter process.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the by invitation.
Although he attended all of the Audit and Remuneration Committees choice of external auditor.
Committee meetings held during the year, the attendance shown above only relates to meetings attended as a member of the relevant Committee.
As consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review of the external auditors activities during the year, the Committee has 2.
Dr U Wolters was appointed as a member of the Nomination recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the Committee on 13 May 2009 and attended all of the Nomination re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor be put to Committee meetings held between that date and 31 December 2009. shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr A J Habgood retired as a director on 30 June 2009 having The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys attended all of the Board and Nomination Committee meetings website, www.
held between 1 January 2009 and that date.
Remuneration Committee Relations with shareholders The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent nonThe Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with the executive directors and is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
While neither the half year results announced normally at the end of August and the Chairman of the Company nor the Chief Executive are members of the annual results announced normally at the end of February.
In addition Committee, they normally attend meetings by invitation except when the Company publishes two interim management statements a year the Committee is considering matters concerning themselves.
Further as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
details of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Directors remuneration The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with report on pages 52 to 60.
The terms of reference of the Committee representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board are available on the Companys website.
the views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication include presentations of the half year and annual results.
The Chairman Nomination Committee and the senior independent director and the other non-executive The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request who chairs the Committee, and two independent non-executive and the Chairman will at such meetings engage in discussions relating directors, Dr U Wolters and Mr C A Banks.
The Committee meets as to matters of governance and strategy as appropriate.
The Board also necessary to enable it to make recommendations to the Board on new periodically reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports and appointments of executive and non-executive directors.
An external surveys of shareholder opinions conducted by the Companys own search consultancy is retained by the Company to assess potential brokers.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders candidates to be considered as prospective non-executive directors at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
All shareholders are and, when appropriate, executive directors.
Candidates are then encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to interviewed by members of the Committee before an appropriate ask questions at the Meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all recommendation is made to the Board.
On joining the Board, new of the directors informally.
Shareholders are given the option to withhold directors are given an induction into the business of the Company and their vote on the proxy form.
Historically the level of proxy votes cast training as necessary.
This process was adopted during the year in and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level connection with the recruitment of Mr P G Rogerson as Chairman to of abstentions, if any, have been announced to the meeting following replace Mr A J Habgood who retired from the Board on 30 June 2009. a vote by a show of hands and the details of the proxies lodged have The Nomination Committee was chaired for this purpose by Mr J F been publicly announced and placed on the Companys website.
Harris in his capacity of Interim Chairman.
The Committee also However, with effect from the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, oversees the process for reviewing, and making recommendations the Board has decided that each of the resolutions put to the meeting to the Board concerning, any potential conflicts of interest which may arise in relation to each member of the Board and this process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
The terms of reference of the Committee are set out on the Companys website.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 corporate governance 07 corporate governance continued will be taken on a poll rather than on a show of hands.
The directors central management holds regular meetings with business area believe that a poll is more representative of shareholders voting intentions management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues because shareholder votes are counted according to the number of including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the shares held and all votes tendered are taken into account.
As was business areas and the policies and procedures by which these risks previously the case with the details of the proxies lodged, the results of are managed: the poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other functional managers, meets twice per month and Internal control and risk management also reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business area The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for meetings on internal control and risk management issues: identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the Groups system of internal control relating to those risks.
However, such the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure discussions on internal control and risk management issues which to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance the Company has established the procedures both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, fraud risk assessment: evaluating, managing and mitigating significant risks to the Group.
The directors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the year actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date of approval of these previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on To ensure that the directors maintain overall control over all significant a weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted a the internal audit department periodically reviews individual schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve These include the approval of the annual and half year results of the controls and follows up to ensure that management implement Company, the Companys strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital the recommendations made.
The internal audit departments work expenditure and acquisition divestment proposals, material increases is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are to borrowing and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms of reported to Group and business area management as well as to reference for the Board Committees.
the Audit Committee: The Board has delegated to management the responsibility for the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly throughout environments in which the Group operates.
The principal features of the year.
Further details of the work of the Committee are set out on this system include: pages 6 and 7: a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined the risks throughout the Group: lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: the Risk Management Committee, which oversees issues principally clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment relating to environment, health and safety, insurance and business and acquisitions: continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and monitors their implementation: strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against objectives established by each business area are periodically formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics carried out: and and whistleblowing procedure based on honesty, integrity and fair dealing: developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
a well-established consolidation and reporting system for the statutory accounts and monthly management accounts: The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management in operation during 2009. continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production of timely and accurate management information relating to the operation of The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the the Groups businesses: and financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of internal financial control and the data contained in the detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit and procedures for the Groups treasury operations.
opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the effectiveness On behalf of the Board of the internal control system and to identify, manage and mitigate business risk are listed below: P N Hussey Secretary 22 February 2010 08 corporate governance Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009
