Corporate governance Corporate Governance Statement The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with governance which it considers to be central to the effective information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it management of the business and to maintaining the confidence to effectively discharge its duties.
Where there are occasions of investors.
The Group complies with the laws and endeavours when directors are unable to attend a meeting they have the to observe the customs and culture in the countries in which it opportunity to review meeting papers and submit comments to operates and does business.
The Group expects all directors the relevant Chairman.
Directors are also supplied with a monthly and employees to drive to achieve the highest standards and management report, which provides information on operational to act with respect and integrity.
The Board monitors and keeps and financial performance and the Groups business plans.
under review the Companys corporate governance framework.
Directors may obtain, in the furtherance of their duties, independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Groups In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, expense.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the the Company confirms that throughout the financial year ended advice and services of the Company Secretary and all senior 31 March 2009 and as at the date of this Annual Report it executive management.
complied in full with the provisions of, and applied the principles of Section 1 of the 2006 Financial Reporting Councils Combined As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This report, information concerning major developments affecting their roles together with the Report on Directors Remuneration and related and responsibilities.
In particular, the directors knowledge of the matters on pages 64 to 71, provide details of how the Company Groups worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of presentations from local management and visits to key locations.
The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year and also The Board held two ad hoc meetings.
The Groups strategy was regularly The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success reviewed and during the year the Board held a day and a half of the Company.
The Board provides leadership for the Group off-site meeting dedicated to strategy.
The Board considers that and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance it met sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge their and internal control.
As at the date of this report, the Board has duties effectively.
seven members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will the Chief Financial Officer and four independent non-executive arrange meetings consisting of only the non-executive directors directors.
The names and biographical details of each of to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
the directors and details of their membership of the Boards During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact committees are set out on page 55.
The Board has a formal and met with the Senior Independent Director and other schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and approval non-executive directors.
which include, but are not limited to: The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary the approval of the interim and annual financial statements is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
any interim dividend and the recommendation of the The table below gives details of directors attendance at final dividend Board and Committee meetings during the financial year the Groups business strategy ended 31 March 2009. annual budget and operating plans major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments the systems of corporate governance, internal control and risk management Remuneration Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Scheduled Ad hoc John Peace 6 6 2 2 6 6 2 2 Angela Ahrendts 6 6 2 2 2 2 Philip Bowman 6 6 2 2 3 3 6 6 2 2 Ian Carter 6 6 1 2 3 3 5 6 2 2 Stacey Cartwright 6 6 2 2 Stephanie George 6 6 0 2 1 3 6 6 2 2 David Tyler 6 6 1 2 3 3 6 6 2 2 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09 59 Corporate governance CONTINUED There is a clear division of the roles and responsibilities of the Feedback from the review was considered and it was concluded Chairman and Chief Executive Officer which are set out in writing that the Board and its committees operate efficiently and and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for effectively.
As a result of this review, it was agreed that the leading the Board in reviewing the Groups strategy and Board would dedicate more time to meeting with senior monitoring high-level progress.
The day-to-day management management worldwide to gain a more detailed understanding and performance of the Groups business is the responsibility of the business.
of the Chief Executive Officer.
The evaluation of the Chairman, which was led by the Senior The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, supports the Independent Director, was undertaken at a formal meeting Chairman in his role and leads the non-executive directors in of the non-executive directors.
the oversight of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Conflicts of interest Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve 2008 Annual General Meeting to allow the directors to authorise or where such contact is inappropriate.
situational conflicts of interests as authorised by the Companies John Peace, Philip Bowman, Ian Carter, Stephanie George and Act 2006.
David Tyler are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of The Board has adopted processes and procedures to management and free from any business relationship which manage and, where appropriate, to approve such conflicts.
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Following a review of directors interests in November 2008, judgement.
During the year under review, the majority of the the Board concluded that there is currently no compromise Board excluding the Chairman comprised independent to the independence of any director arising from an external non-executive directors.
appointment or any outside commercial interest.
Board appointments Committees Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the The Board is supported by a number of committees including Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
All directors the following principal committees: Audit Committee, Remuneration are subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General Committee and Nomination Committee.
All the non-executive Meeting following their appointment and thereafter to re-election directors are members of each of the principal committees of at least once every three years in line with the Companys the Board.
Articles of Association and provision A.
The biographical details of those directors seeking re-election at the The terms of reference of each of the principal committees are forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 55 available on request and can be viewed on the Companys of this Annual Report.
Directors development The committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage with On appointment, directors are furnished with an induction pack third-party consultants and independent professional advisors of information, which includes key Group policies, guidance and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them notes and information on corporate governance matters.
in developing their respective roles.
In addition to the relevant In addition, visits to key locations, meetings with members committee members and the Company Secretary, external of the management team and updates on particular issues advisors and, on occasion, other directors attend committee are arranged for directors as appropriate.
meetings but only at the invitation of the chairmen of the committees.
Board performance evaluation In each financial year since 2006 07, the Board has undertaken Audit Committee a review of its performance and that of its committees and The Audit Committee comprises four independent individual directors.
In 2006 07, the evaluation was undertaken non-executive directors: using an external facilitator and in 2007 08 and 2008 09 the Philip Bowman Chairman process of evaluation was led by the Chairman.
The process Ian Carter for evaluation is reviewed on an annual basis.
Stephanie George In 2008 09, the evaluation was led by the Chairman and David Tyler involved holding a series of structured one-to-one interviews The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee with each of the directors, together with the completion of a are set out in written terms of reference.
The review considered the outcomes of previous evaluations, the current composition and responsibilities of the Board and each of its committees, together with the frequency and structure of meetings.
In addition, the review considered the contribution and effectiveness of the executive and non-executive directors.
60 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09 Corporate governance CONTINUED The Audit Committee is responsible for: The Committee recognises that the independence of the auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the reviewing financial statements and formal announcements assurance that it provides.
The Committee monitors the types relating to the Groups performance of non-audit work that are undertaken by the external auditors reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk to ensure that their objectivity and independence is not management systems compromised.
Any proposed non-audit assignments require prior approval and the Committee receives a report at each monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups meeting providing details of non-audit assignments carried internal audit function out by the external auditors in addition to their normal work.
assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during the of the external auditors financial year can be found in note 5 in the financial statements.
developing and implementing policies on the engagement Remuneration Committee of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages making recommendations for the appointment, 64 to 71. re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and Nomination Committee approving their remuneration and terms of engagement The Nomination Committee comprises: reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in John Peace Chairman confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties Angela Ahrendts in matters of financial reporting and other matters Philip Bowman The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the Ian Carter Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has Stephanie George recent and relevant financial experience, given the nature of David Tyler the senior management positions held by Philip Bowman and The Nomination Committee met twice during the year David Tyler see biographical details on page 55. under review.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the attendance record of Committee members is recorded in the balance and composition of the Board and its committees and table on page 59.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit for identifying and recommending appointments or renewal Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Executive Vice of appointments to the Board.
These regular reviews ensure that President Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Audit and Risk the Group and the Board are able to draw from a complementary Assurance and the external auditors regularly attend meetings.
balance of skills and experience and that there is in place In addition, the Committee met during the year with the external an appropriate plan for orderly succession to the Board.
The auditors without management present.
procedure for appointments is set out in its terms of reference.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring During the year under review, the Nomination Committee the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and considered and reviewed the Groups succession planning risk management systems.
During the year, the Committee arrangements.
These arrangements will be kept under review reviewed the Groups internal audit plan and approved the by the Committee.
internal audit plan for the financial year to 31 March 2010.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Relations with shareholders whistle-blowing arrangements in place to enable employees The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good to raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have.
The communications with its shareholders and does this through the Committee is satisfied that such arrangements remain appropriate.
Annual Report, preliminary and interim announcements, interim management statements, the Annual General Meeting and During the financial year, the Audit Committee reviewed the through the additional processes described below.
effectiveness of the external audit process and the qualification, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors.
The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President Chief The Committee also reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms Financial Officer make presentations to institutional shareholders of engagement for the financial year to 31 March 2009 and has and analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary recommended to the Board that it propose to shareholders that and interim results: these presentations are made available on  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups the Companys website www.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09 61 Corporate governance CONTINUED The Company communicates with its institutional investors Internal control frequently and regularly through a combination of formal The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups meetings, participation at investor conferences and informal system of internal control and has delegated responsibility for briefings with management.
The Board is kept abreast of the reviewing its effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
A system of views of major shareholders by briefings from the Director of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the Investor Relations.
During the year, the Board obtained an risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide independent insight into the views of major shareholders through only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material research commissioned with an external advisor.
The outcomes misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed of that research were presented and reviewed by the Board.
the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been In addition, analysts notes and brokers briefings are also established to provide internal control.
As part of the process used to achieve a wide understanding of investors views.
that the Board has in place to review the effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures designed to The non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case Director, are available to meet with major shareholders to of those categorised by the Board as significant, procedures discuss issues of importance to them, should a meeting exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy be requested.
Annual General Meeting In accordance with the revised guidance for directors on internal In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Notice of the control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms 2008 Annual General Meeting was sent to shareholders at least that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 20 working days before the Meeting.
A poll vote was taken on managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include each of the resolutions put before shareholders.
All directors those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This attended the 2008 Annual General Meeting and the Chairman process was in place throughout the year under review and up of the Board and the chairmen of each of the committees were to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
available to answer shareholders questions.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee Voting at the 2009 Annual General Meeting will be by way of which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
be announced and details of the votes will be available to view The key procedures operating within the Group are as follows: on the Companys website www.
com as soon as Risk assessment possible after the meeting.
The Groups business objectives are incorporated into the It is the intention that all directors, including the chairmen of the annual budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress towards the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will attend achievement of such objectives is monitored by a variety of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be available financial measures and non-financial performance indicators.
The Group Risk Committee of executive management meets Corporate Responsibility formally at least three times a year to re-evaluate risk and to Details of the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility consider the work of the Internal Audit and Risk Assurance are given on pages 48 to 52. and other assurance teams.
During the year, the Committee met on three occasions.
The Director of Audit and Risk Assurance Accountability and audit attends these meetings.
The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for considering and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to operational, financial, compliance and other risks to the business the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 72, which and has delegated responsibility for reviewing the risk management includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding procedures to the Audit Committee.
the Groups status as a going concern, and to the Report of the Control environment and control activities Auditors on page 73 which includes a statement by the auditors The Group consists of a number of business regions, each with about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its own management structure which forms part of the overall its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable management structure of the Group.
The senior executives of assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive public these units report to the executive directors.
reports and reports to regulators as well as to information required to be presented by law.
62 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09 Corporate governance CONTINUED The Group has established procedures for the delegation of authorities for matters that are considered significant, either because of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure that approval is considered at an appropriate level.
The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are either already laid down or are being established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, compliance with legislation and physical security.
The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the risk factors that have been identified.
Such strategies include a framework of internal control and the use of third-party services to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other approaches are taken, such as insurance.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an appropriately detailed level.
A summary of results supported by commentary and performance measures is provided to the Board each month.
The performance measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of business performance.
A summary of the key business risks and relevant control measures is submitted by the executive directors to the Audit Committee at the end of the financial year.
The Audit Committee meets with both external and internal auditors.
Monitoring A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application of internal control within the Group.
These include management review, management confirmations of compliance with standards and procedures as well as internal audit and other specialist reviews.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09 63
