7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 23 Corporate governance 23 The directors are required to report on how the The chairman takes personal responsibility for Corporation has applied the main and supporting leadership of the board and ensures that directors principles in the Combined Code on Corporate receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He Governance the Code, and to confirm that it has reviews the provision of information with the complied with the Codes provisions or, where this company secretary at least annually.
has not been the case, to provide an explanation.
The board operates as a collective decision This report is in respect of that version of the Code making forum.
Individual directors are required to published in June 2008, applicable to reporting scrutinise reports produced by the executive, and periods beginning on or after 29 June 2008. are encouraged to debate issues in an open and A copy of the Code may be obtained by visiting constructive manner.
If one or more directors www.
The Corporation was a constituent cannot support a consensus decision, a vote will of the FTSE 250 during the period of the review, so be taken and the views of a dissenting director all of the provisions of the Code apply to it.
However, recorded in the minutes.
the Code recognises that investment companies such as Law Debenture may have board structures Procedures are in place to enable independent which might affect the relevance of particular professional advice to be taken by individual provisions of the Code.
Where Law Debenture has directors at the Corporations expense, and departed from any provisions of the Code, this is appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect explained below.
This corporate governance of legal action against the directors.
statement is intended to form a part of the directors The board meets regularly throughout the year.
attendance records of the directors both at meetings of the board and, where relevant, meetings of board The board role, modus operandi committees are set out in the table below.
There was and appraisal also a strategy day during the year attended by the The board includes a majority of non-executive directors and chief financial officer.
The names of the directors, all of whom Board Remuneration Audit Nominations served through the year, along with biographies, are on page 5 of the annual report.
In addition, Number of meetings Mr Robert Williams served as a non-executive in the year 9 4 4 1 director until his retirement at the annual general Meetings attended by: meeting on 7 April 2009.
C. J. Banszky 9 The board is responsible for the overall strategy and A. C. Cates 9 4 4 1 management of the group, setting investment policy J.
A. Kay 8 4 4 1 and strategy and ensuring that the Corporation is D. C. P. McDougall 8 4 4 1 operating in compliance with statutory and legal C. Smith appointed 1 March 6 3 3 obligations.
There is a formal schedule of matters R. Williams retired 7 April 2 specifically reserved for board decision, and this One of these was held at short notice to take routine decisions.
document is published on the Corporations website The board keeps under review the performance of www.
com under investment trust investor the executive director, and the chairman formally information.
Matters connected with strategy and appraises all the directors each year.
The nonmanagement, structure and capital, financial executive directors meet once each year without reporting and control, investment trust portfolio, the presence of the chairman to review the contracts, shareholder communication, board chairmans performance, the results of the review membership and other appointments, remuneration being discussed with the chairman by the senior and corporate governance are reserved for the independent director.
There is a separate schedule setting out the division of responsibility between the chairman and Mr Cates is the senior independent director.
available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the chairman, managing director or chief financial officer.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 24 24 Corporate governance continued The board independence The board re-election and renewal At least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, The nominations committee described in more must be independent non-executive directors.
The detail elsewhere in this report ensures that the board has concluded that as at the date of this board has in place arrangements for orderly and report, excluding the chairman, three of the four transparent appointments to the board.
There are other directors are independent non-executives.
In job descriptions in place for non-executive directors judging independence, the board takes into account roles, and the board has written terms and whether or not a director is independent of conditions of appointment for non-executive management and any material business or other directors, which are available for inspection at the relationship that could affect or interfere with the AGM.
Particular care is taken to ensure that nonexercise of objective judgement by the director, executive directors have sufficient time to commit to or his her ability to act in the best interests of the the duties expected of them.
No new non-executive Corporation and its subsidiaries.
director is appointed without first being interviewed by each existing non-executive director.
The chairman, Mr McDougall, was independent at appointment and continues to be independent in the All new directors undergo an induction process, view of the board, notwithstanding the fact that he involving presentations by the managing director and has served as a director for more than nine years each business head and meetings with the and that he is not taken into account in assessing the investment manager.
independence of the board as a whole.
Assessment All directors are submitted for annual re-election, of independence should be based on character and subject to continued satisfactory performance, which conduct, not on any arbitrary time limit.
is assessed as described above.
There is no The board is satisfied that Mr McDougalls other maximum number of terms that a director may serve.
commitments do not interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to Law Debenture, and is Directors remuneration satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to Details of the directors remuneration appear in the discharge his duties as chairman of Law Debenture.
Mr Cates was until 30 April 2002 a partner of Board committees Clifford Chance LLP, a firm that has provided advice The board has established a nominations to certain of the independent fiduciary services committee, an audit committee and a remuneration subsidiaries from time to time.
The board has committee, to which it has delegated certain concluded that this does not affect the assessment responsibilities.
Each committee has terms of of Mr Cates as independent for two reasons.
First, reference, which are published on the Corporations the Corporations independent fiduciary services website www.
com investmentbusinesses obtain legal advice from many leading trust investor-information corporatelaw firms during the course of a year.
Membership of the committees is many instances, external factors rather than Law kept under review, taking account of the Codes Debentures preference dictate the choice of legal acknowledgement of the position of investment adviser, or conflicts of interest dictate that one firm trusts.
The board is deliberately kept small in the must be chosen ahead of another.
It is the expertise of Professor Kay was independent at appointment in directors that counts, not the number of them.
The September 2004 and remains so.
Corporation is not apologetic for the minor areas of non-compliance reported in the paragraphs below.
Mr Smith was independent at appointment in March 2009 and remains so.
All members of board committees are independent non-executive directors.
The Code says that the Mr Williams was not considered to be independent chairman should not be a member of the audit prior to his retirement on 7 April as he had committee.
The Corporations board has concluded previously spent 11 years as an executive director.
that given the nature of issues considered by the The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 25 25 committee and the chairmans particular expertise in Key duties the financial management of investment trusts, it isMonitoring the independence and objectivity of the appropriate to have four members including the auditors, their performance and remuneration and chairman.
Non-compliance with this part of the Code making recommendations on the appointment of is in the shareholders best interests.
new auditors: Monitoring the statutory audit: The Code provides that the chairman may be a member of the remuneration committee but that he Reviewing the annual and interim accounts before should not be its chairman.
The Corporations board submission to the board, including particular has concluded that it is appropriate, given the size focus on changes in accounting policy etc: and of the board, for the chairman to be on the Reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal remuneration committee and, given his experience control and risk management including and knowledge, that he is best placed of the four monitoring the internal audit function.
committee members to chair it.
Non-compliance with this part of the Code is, again, in the shareholders Members best interests.
C. Smith chairman D. C. P. McDougall A summary of each committee is set out below.
A. C. Cates The number of meetings held during the year, and J.
A. Kay the attendance record of committee members is set The board is satisfied that all members have the out in the table on page 23. necessary recent and relevant financial experience to serve.
Nominations committee Role Remuneration committee To keep under review the structure, size and Role composition of the board and make recommendations To develop the Corporations remuneration policy about adjustments that are deemed necessary, and to and oversee its implementation, monitoring the ensure effective succession planning in accordance effectiveness of the policy as it relates to the with legal and corporate governance needs.
Key duties Key duties Identification and nomination for board approval of Reviewing and agreeing the remuneration and suitable candidates to fill vacancies: benefits of the executive director and senior Succession planning in particular of the chairman executives in the light, as relevant, of corporate and managing director : performance against a range of measures: Making recommendations about the re-Development of total remuneration packages, appointment of non-executive directors: and taking account of factors set out in the Code, based in part on performance and subject to Ensuring that the board and its committees are suitable performance measurements as set by the constituted to comply so far as practicable with committee: and the Code.
To make recommendations to the board for any Members changes to long term incentive arrangements.
D. C. P. McDougall chairman A. C. Cates Members J.
A. Kay D. C. P. McDougall chairman C. Smith A. C. Cates J.
A. Kay Audit committee C. Smith Role The board does not operate a Management To assist the board in the management of the Engagement Committee.
The duties of such a groups finances and financial reporting structure.
committee are undertaken directly by the board.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 26 26 Corporate governance continued Accountability and auditBoard review of the groups matrix of key risks The statement of directors responsibilities in and controls: relation to the financial statements appears on An internal audit function, which involves not only page 22 of the annual report and accounts.
The each business department including overseas independent auditors report appears on pages 34 offices being subject to audit on a regular basis, and 35.
The directors confirm that the Corporation but also regular reviews of other business wide is a going concern as evidenced by the financial processes: statements, which demonstrate a healthy position, Testing by the compliance officer of the Financial taking into account all known and future Services Authority FSA regulated business anticipated liabilities, and the groups ability to systems and controls: meet those liabilities.
Periodic reports to the board by the compliance The financial statements present a balanced and officer about legal and regulatory changes, and clear assessment of the financial position and the steps that the board must take to comply: and prospects of the Corporation and the group.
The financial statements are reviewed by the auditReview of reports by the external auditors on their committee, then approved by the board, and signed annual audit work, and specific checks carried out by the chairman and managing director.
on behalf of treasury management clients.
Non-audit services provided by the auditor are The internal audit programme and system of reviewed by the audit committee to ensure that compliance checks have both been developed using independence is maintained.
Non-audit fees are a risk-based methodology and an evaluation of shown at note 3 on page 45.
The boards policy is process controls.
that non-audit work which normally consists of The board considers that the above measures taxation and other technical advice can be carried constitute continuing application of the Turnbull out by the Corporations auditors unless there is a guidance and form an important management tool conflict of interest or someone else is considered to in the monitoring and control of the groups have more relevant experience.
Internal controls An important element of the overall controls remains The following paragraphs describe the framework of a continuous review of the quality and effectiveness internal controls in place to ensure that the of internal financial controls of the group.
During the Corporation complies with the Financial Reporting year, the board has continued to require that the Councils guidance the Turnbull guidance which group maintains proper accounting records, so that forms a part of the Code, and with the obligations of it can rely on the financial information it receives to the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules which make appropriate business decisions and also that require a description of the main features of the the groups assets are safeguarded.
Key elements internal control and risk management systems in of the systems of internal control continue to be: relation to the financial reporting process.
This section Regular qualitative self-assessment of the should be read in conjunction with the business review, effectiveness of the individual controls maintained from which shareholders will better understand the in the overall internal financial control framework: risks that our internal controls are in place to manage.
Preparation by management of a comprehensive The board monitors the effectiveness of internal and detailed budget system, involving annual controls on a continuous basis and in a number of board approval and monthly comparison at board ways, both directly through main board general level of actual results with budgets and forecasts: reviews and also by the more specific work carried Systematic reporting to the board of matters out by the audit committee.
The various relating to litigation, insurance, pensions, taxation, mechanisms include: accounting and cash management as well as legal, compliance and company secretarial issues: The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 27 27 Review of internal audit reports by the appropriate Relations with shareholders and institutional operating company board and the audit committee: shareholder responsibilities The Corporations compliance with these aspects of Review of the internal controls of those services, the Code is described separately within the such as investment management, custody and directors report.
registration, which have been delegated to third parties, such review being conducted during the Information about share capital initial contractual negotiation and on a regular The information that the Corporation is required to basis, including annual discussions with the senior disclose about its share capital can be found in the management and compliance staff of Henderson directors report significant holders and AGM notice Global Investors Limited: total voting rights.
There are no other disclosures Monitoring by the board of the investment that need to be made about share capital.
management process, including the establishment and maintenance of investment guidelines, Annual general meeting receiving a report from the investment manager Details of the annual general meeting AGM for at each board meeting, the review of all 2010 are set out at pages 65 to 68. transactions with the investment manager and regular reconciliations of the records of the group The board recognises the value of the AGM as an with those of the global custodian and investment opportunity to communicate with investors and data services provider: and encourage their participation.
Separate resolutions are put to the AGM on each substantially separate Receipt of frequent and detailed reports about the issue.
Except where a poll has been called, the level independent fiduciary services businesses, of proxies lodged for each resolution, and the balance including reports and attendance at board for and against the resolution and the number of meetings from time to time from managing abstentions is disclosed to the meeting.
This directors of overseas subsidiaries.
information is published immediately after the AGM on The systems of internal financial control are the Corporations website.
Those appointing a proxy designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, have the opportunity to indicate vote withheld if they assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
wish neither to support nor oppose a resolution.
The notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to By means of the procedures set out above, the shareholders at least 20 working days before the directors have established a process for identifying, meeting.
Where requested by nominee holders, evaluating and monitoring the effectiveness of the annual reports and related documentation are internal control systems for the period.
This process circulated to beneficial owners and the Corporation is has been in place throughout 2009 and will be happy for beneficial owners to attend the AGM and reviewed by the board on a regular basis.
where appropriate arrangements have been made with the nominee to vote their shares in person.
Arrangements are in place by which staff of the group may, in confidence, raise concerns under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 about possible Summary statement of compliance improprieties in matters of financial reporting or The board has concluded that, as demonstrated by other matters.
If necessary, any member of staff the disclosures made in the foregoing, the with an honest and reasonable suspicion about Corporation has complied throughout 2009 with the possible impropriety may raise the matter directly requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate with the chairman of the audit committee.
In Governance or, where it has not complied, an addition, the staff have access to an external whistle explanation has been provided.
Arrangements are in place for the reported in respect of the entire Code.
proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
