52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GOVERNANCE AuDIT COmmITTEE REpORT.
The Committee met four times during 2009.
Agendas A pRINCIpAl for meetings are linked to events in the Groups RESpONSIBIlITy OF financial calendar.
The Committee also participated ThE COmmITTEE IS in a detailed training session in March designed to TO mONITOR ThE assist Committee members in understanding financial reporting matters relevant to the preparation of the INTEGRITy OF ThE 2008 annual financial statements.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference and these are reviewed annually.
The hENRy STAuNTON Committees terms of reference include all matters AuDIT COmmITTEE required by the Combined Code.
During 2009, the ChAIRmAN Group Risk and Compliance Committee, which reports to the Board, was responsible for reviewing the internal control and risk management system.
The new Board risk committee described on page 72 will assume this ThE COmmITTEE responsibility in future.
Members of the Audit Committee: The Chairman of the Committee reports back to the Board on the outcome of meetings, and the Board Members receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
henry Staunton Chairman Rudy Markham Dame Clara Furse James Strachan ACTIVITIES Frances Heaton A principal responsibility of the Committee is to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
As part of this, the Committee reviewed the areas requiring Membership of the Audit Committee currently judgment as part of the preparation of the Groups comprises four non-executive directors and myself financial statements during 2009.
These areas change as Chairman.
The Combined Code requires at least over time.
With input from the Groups external auditors, one financially qualified member as recognised by including their assessment of the Groups financial the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
reporting and control risks, the Committee reviewed the Currently, two members of the Committee fulfil this significant financial reporting issues and judgments as requirement.
All members of the Committee are well as the key disclosures to be included in the financial required to be financially literate and to have relevant statements published during the course of 2009.
New Committee members market announcements which accompanied the financial participate in training upon joining the Committee, statements were also reviewed to ensure consistency which covers the role of the Committee, its terms of with the contents of the financial statements.
reference and key current issues relevant to the matters considered by the Committee.
A sound system of internal controls is essential for reliable financial reporting and for the effective The Committee invites the Chairman, Group Chief management of the Group.
To assess the quality of Executive, Group Chief Financial officer, Group the control environment of the Group, the Committee Financial Controller, Group Chief Internal Auditor, uK received regular reports during the year from the Actuary and representatives of the external auditors, external auditors, as well as from the Internal Audit  llp, to attend all of its department, following their work in reviewing and meetings, although it reserves the right to request auditing the Groups control environment.
The that they withdraw at any time during the meeting.
Committee also invited senior managers from business other senior management are invited to present reports areas across the Group to report to the Committee on as required by the Committee to discharge its duties.
the quality of the controls in their business area.
This The Committee regularly holds private meetings with was usually linked to a report from the Groups external the Group Chief Internal Auditor and representatives auditors or the Internal Audit department on their of the external auditors.
findings on the control framework in that business area.
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 53 In this way, the Committee obtains the fullest picture The Groups Internal Audit function makes an important possible to enable it to be satisfied with the effectiveness contribution to the Committee in the discharge of its of the Groups internal control environment.
The Committee reviewed and agreed Committee also received the minutes of the meetings of the internal audit plan for 2009 and evaluated the the Group Risk and Compliance Committee held during functions performance through the quality of reports the year.
provided to the Committee, management response to audit findings and the timeliness of the implementation The Committee is responsible for monitoring the of recommendations.
The level of skills and expertise Groups relationship with its external auditors including of the individuals in the Internal Audit function and the their effectiveness and independence.
The Committee resources available to the Internal Audit department, reviewed and agreed the audit plan for 2009, and any including staff numbers, were also reviewed.
variations to this that were proposed during the year: evaluated the quality of input, perceptiveness and robustness of representatives of the external auditors through their reports to the Committee and their participation in discussion at Committee meetings.
RESpONSIBIlITIES The Committee also reviewed and agreed the fees payable to the auditors for their audit work.
on the basis advise the Board on external financial of this review, the Committee has recommended to the reporting matters including significant financial Board that it recommend that shareholders support reporting issues and judgments and the the reappointment of  as the Groups accounting principles and policies, Groups external auditors at this years Annual and any changes to them.
Review the half year and annual financial The Committee regularly reviews the amount and statements prior to publication including nature of non-audit work undertaken by the auditors related market announcements.
and the associated fees, and did so in 2009.
The Group has adopted a policy setting out the types of non-audit advise the Board on the effectiveness of work that may and may not be provided to the Group the Groups internal control environment by the auditors.
This policy requires the Committee to and risk management systems.
approve the engagement of the auditors to undertake non-audit work.
Non-audit work in excess of 250,000 Consider and make recommendations must be subject to competitive tender.
if the auditors to the Board on the appointment of are selected, the Committee is responsible for agreeing external auditors.
The policy also restricts the employment by the Group of former staff of the external Monitor the relationship with the Groups auditors, and precludes the employment of any audit external auditors including audit expertise partner if that partner was involved in providing audit and effectiveness, terms of engagement and services to the Group in the last three years.
Review the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Monitor the role and effectiveness of internal Audit including resourcing, annual internal audit plans, key findings and management response.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on our website.
54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GOVERNANCE AuDIT COmmITTEE REpORT.
SummARy OF WORK OVER ThE lAST 12 mONThS Reviewed the financial statements in the 2008 annual Report and accounts and 2009 half Year report, and received reports from the external auditors on those statements.
Reviewed the basis for the preparation of the Groups accounts on a going concern basis.
Reviewed the significant disclosures contained in the financial statements.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls based on reports received from management, Internal Audit and the external auditors and reviewed the proposed disclosures for the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts.
Reviewed the principal Risks and uncertainties disclosed in the 2008 annual Report and accounts and 2009 half Year report.
Reviewed the market announcements which accompanied the 2008 annual Report and accounts and 2009 half Year Report, as well as the 17 February 2009 market announcement relating to iGD Capital Surplus.
agreed the scope of audit work to be undertaken by the Groups external auditors and the fees to be paid to the auditors for this audit work.
Reviewed the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors during the year and the non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
undertook a comprehensive review of the external auditors performance.
Received quarterly reports from the Group Chief internal auditor on internal audit work undertaken, key findings, management response and the implementation of recommended actions.
Reviewed the terms of reference for internal audit and evaluated the performance of the internal audit function.
Received annual reports from the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer.
Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
participated in training on key financial reporting matters relating to the preparation of the 2008 annual Report and Accounts and received regular updates on developments in accounting and financial reporting matters.
on behalf of the Audit Committee henry Staunton Audit Committee Chairman
