50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GOVERNANCE NOmINATIONS COmmITTEE REpORT.
DuRING 2009, ThE COmmITTEE lED The Nominations Committee leads the process for the appointment of new directors to the Board and reviews ThE pROCESS FOR ThE AppOINTmENT on a regular basis whether the Chairman and the nonOF A NEW NON-ExECuTIVE DIRECTOR executive directors continue to be able to meet their AND A SuCCESSOR FOR ANDREW commitments to the Company.
pAlmER, ThE GROup DIRECTOR FINANCE.
uNDER ThE ChAIRmANShIp Members OF ThE VICE ChAIRmAN, SIR DAVID John Stewart Chairman Rudy Markham WAlKER, ThE COmmITTEE mANAGED Sir David Walker Dr. Ronaldo Schmitz Dame Clara Furse henry Staunton ThE pROCESS FOR IDENTIFyING A Frances Heaton James Strachan SuCCESSOR FOR SIR ROB mARGETTS.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman, and all non-executive directors are members of the Committee.
The executive directors, as well as the Group General Counsel and Group HR Director, may attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee is chaired by the vice Chairman when it is considering matters relating to the Chairman.
The Committee meets formally once a year to review the succession plans in place for the executive directors and key senior management.
otherwise the Committee meets periodically when required.
All directors may serve on a number of other Boards, provided they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere with their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain the agreement of the Chairman to the appointment before accepting.
Executive directors must also obtain the permission of the Group Chief Executive.
This ensures that any potential conflicts of interest or any other concerns around the proposed appointment are considered and addressed.
The major commitments of our non-executive directors are outlined in their biographies on pages 42 and 43.
Currently, nonexecutive directors are expected to commit 25 to 30 days per year.
The Committee remains satisfied that all non-executive directors have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
all of the nonexecutive directors are considered to be independent.
The Committee was also satisfied that during 2009 the Chairmans other commitments did not interfere with the day to day performance of his duties for the Company.
During 2009, under the leadership of Sir Rob Margetts, the Committee was active in the appointment of a new non-executive director and in identifying a successor for Andrew Palmer, the Group Director Finance.
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 51 Early in 2009, based on an assessment of the size of the that John Stewart be appointed as successor to Sir Rob Board and the balance of its composition, the Board Margetts.
John Stewarts appointment as Chairman decided to seek an additional non-executive director.
Designate from 1 January 2010 and formal appointment The balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the as Chairman from 1 March 2010, was announced in Board was evaluated, and the Committee developed an December.
The sub committee was satisfied that John appointment specification.
The specification included Stewart was independent on appointment and of his a desire for the appointee to have recent executive ability to meet the requirements of Chairman taking experience.
The Committee instructed external advisers into account his other significant commitments.
Sir to assist in the identification and shortlisting of potential Rob Margetts was not involved in the selection and candidates.
All Committee members and the Group appointment of his successor.
Chief Executive met the short listed candidates and unanimously resolved in April to recommend to the Board that Dame Clara Furse be appointed.
Dame Clara formally joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 June.
Following Andrew Palmers indication that he intended to retire during 2009, the Committee commenced the search for a replacement.
Taking into consideration the views of the Group Chief Executive and the other executive directors, the Committee decided to consider external candidates as well as the internal candidates identified in the Companys succession plan.
A detailed RESpONSIBIlITIES specification for the role of Group Chief Financial officer was developed and with the assistance of an external Regularly review the structure, size and search consultancy, candidates with the requisite skills composition of the Board and make and experience were identified.
These candidates recommendations to the Board on any changes.
were considered by the Committee together with the in relation to new appointments to the internal candidates.
In May, the Committee resolved to Board, lead the process for the identification recommend to the Board that a formal offer be made and nomination of candidates to fill Board to Nigel Wilson to join the Company as Group Chief vacancies.
The Committee considers potential Financial officer.
candidates on merit and against objective criteria, and also considers a candidates in early 2009, Sir Rob Margetts indicated to the Board ability to devote sufficient time to the job.
his intention to retire once a suitable successor was Review the time commitment required from identified.
a sub committee of the Nominations non-executive directors.
Committee was formed of all of the non-executive Consider succession planning for directors directors NEDs except for the Chairman.
The sub and senior management to ensure the committee under the chairmanship of the vice Chairman, continued ability of the Company to implement Sir David Walker, commenced the process of identifying its strategy and compete effectively in the a successor.
The sub committee engaged an external markets in which it operates.
search consultancy and prepared a job specification, which included desired experience, leadership skills, The Committee adopted updated terms of personal qualities and the expected time commitment.
The terms of reference can A shortlist of candidates was prepared and members be viewed on our website.
of the sub committee, together with the Group Chief Executive, met the candidates.
The sub committee met six times during the year and in between times, the vice Chairman and Company Secretary kept all members fully appraised of progress.
in November 2009, the sub committee recommended to the Board
