46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 GOVERNANCE CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT.
ThE BOARD mET TEN TImES of skills is in place to successfully drive the Company forward.
Most recently, this took place as part of our DuRING 2009 AND hElD A TWO Board evaluation exercise, as described on page 45.
DAy EVENT OFF-SITE FACIlITATED Experience and qualities from other industries, and other By ThE ExECuTIVE AND SENIOR aspects of commercial and public life, that will contribute mANAGEmENT TO REVIEW AND to the driving forward of the Companys strategy are valued however, the time commitments of all our nonDEBATE STRATEGy.
executive directors are carefully assessed to ensure that the Company continues to derive the benefit whilst avoiding time commitments on the non-executives that are unduly onerous.
Succession planning is considered on an ongoing basis for all Board members and senior The Boards involvement in developing and agreeing management, and arrangements are in place to identify the Groups future strategy has been effective in the right people when the time comes.
driving the strategic direction of the Group during the recent financial turmoil and delivering strong financial The Combined Code, as well as the Companys Articles performance.
The two day strategy event and specific of Association, require that on appointment to the agenda items at meetings held throughout the year Board, a director is subject to election by the Companys helps the Board to plan the strategic focus for the Group shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment, and establish the foundations for long term growth.
and then to re-election every three years.
Additional Board meetings were called as required, and in total the Board met ten times during the year.
Dame Clara Furse, John Stewart and Nigel Wilson will all offer themselves for election at this years AGM as ThE BOARD they have been appointed since the last AGM.
Rudy The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, Markham, John pollock, henry Staunton and James seven non-executive directors and four executive Strachan retire by rotation at this years aGM and directors.
The details of the current directors, including will offer themselves for re-election.
Each of the nonbiographies, are on pages 42 and 43.
During 2009, there executive directors offering themselves for re-election were a number of Board changes: have been reappointed by the Company for further three Mark Gregory was appointed as Group Executive year terms.
The Board is satisfied that those directors Director Savings on 28 January 2009 following retiring and seeking re-election are properly qualified the resignation of Kate Avery as a director of the for their reappointment by virtue of their skills and Company.
experience and their contribution to the Board and its Dame Clara Furse joined the Board as a non-executive committees.
The Notice for this years aGM confirms director on 1 June 2009. that the performance of the directors being proposed andrew palmer retired from the Board and Nigel for election and re-election continues to be effective Wilson was appointed as Group Chief Financial and they continue to show commitment to their role.
officer and a director of the Company with effect from 1 September 2009. if any director is not elected or re-elected at the aGM, John Stewart was appointed as Chairman Designate their appointment will terminate automatically with on 1 January 2010.
Sir Rob Margetts retired from immediate effect.
the Board and John Stewart formally took over as Chairman on 1 March 2010.
Following appointment to the Board, directors undertake a formal induction programme aimed at familiarising Appointments to the Board are the responsibility them with the Company, its products and services, the of the Board as whole, acting on the advice and markets in which it operates and the Companys senior recommendations of the Nominations Committee.
The programme includes meetings with The non-executive members of the Board contribute the executive directors, the Group General Counsel and their diverse business experience and wide range of senior management responsible for Investor Relations, skills to the Company.
The composition of the Board internal audit, Strategy, international, Communications, is regularly reviewed to ensure the right combination Human Resources and Group Compliance.
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 47 Board and committee meetings attended by each director during 2009 Audit Nominations Remuneration Director Board 10 committee 4 committee 8 committee 3 Sir R Margetts 10 10 n a 2 2 3 3 1 J Stewart n a n a n a n a T J Breedon 10 10 4 4 n a 3 3 2 Dame C Furse 5 5 2 2 2 2 n a 3 M J Gregory 9 9 n a n a n a F A Heaton 10 10 4 4 6 8 n a R Markham 8 10 4 4 6 8 2 3 4 A W Palmer 7 7 3 3 n a n a J B Pollock 10 10 n a n a n a Dr. R Schmitz 9 10 n a 6 8 2 3 h S Staunton 10 10 4 4 8 8 n a J Strachan 10 10 4 4 6 8 2 3 Sir D Walker 10 10 n a 8 8 3 3 5 N D Wilson 3 3 1 1 n a n a Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended by that director.
1 4 Appointed to the Board in 2010 Retired from the Board on 1 September 2009 2 5 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2009 appointed to the Board on 1 September 2009 3 appointed to the Board on 28 January 2009 Note: C R avery resigned on 28 January 2009 and therefore did not attend any meetings in 2009 ongoing training is provided to the Board through the aGM.
The Board remained satisfied of Dr. Schmitzs Business Awareness Programme and ad hoc training independence of character and judgment during 2009. sessions are conducted on topical issues as they arise.
although Sir Rob Margetts first joined the Board in 1996, Sessions during 2009 included the Turner Review and the Board believes that his knowledge and experience the Retail Distribution Review.
were of great value to the Board and the Company in 2009 during which time the Nominations Committee The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors worked to identify his successor.
are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, on the Companys website and will be available at The Board and committee meetings attended by each the AGM.
director during 2009 are shown in the table above.
Non-attendance at a meeting is rare and only arises if a The service contracts for the executive directors all director has an unexpected commitment or, for a newly provide for termination on notice by the executive appointed director, an unavoidable existing commitment director or the Company on 12 months or less.
In that cannot be rearranged.
relation to John pollock, who will offer himself for reelection at this years AGM, the termination notice period The activities of the Board are guided by the principles is six months and on termination, he would become of the Combined Code.
There is a formal list of matters entitled to six months salary in addition to the payment specifically reserved for decision by the Board which of pension contributions and car allowance.
The service includes all decisions on strategic matters, capital contract of Nigel Wilson, who will offer himself for expenditure, dividend policy and major contracts.
The election at the AGM, is terminable on 12 months notice.
Board regularly reviews the performance of the Group and its businesses against plan and receives regular The Board has determined that throughout 2009 the reports from each executive director and the Group majority of the non-executive directors excluding the General Counsel.
The Board also receives detailed Chairman were independent in character and judgment.
briefings from senior managers on the key business Dr. Ronaldo Schmitz has served on the Board since areas, which are aimed at enhancing Board members october 2000 and he intends to retire at this years understanding of the business and provide the Board 48 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 gOvERNANCE CORpORATE gOvERNANCE REpORT.
with the opportunity to question and review strategy and develop working relationships with senior managers.
Sir David Walker is the vice Chairman and Senior The Board also receives an annual report from the Group Independent Director.
He is available to shareholders if Risk and Compliance Director on regulatory compliance they have any concerns that cannot be resolved through matters and the Companys relationship with its the usual channels.
regulator, the Financial Services Authority.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the The Chairman and non-executive directors meet Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
formally in the absence of the executive directors at Directors have access to the advice and services of least twice per year.
The Chairman also regularly meets the Company Secretary as and when required, as well the non-executive directors on a one to one basis to as to independent professional advice at the expense discuss any concerns they may have about the Board or of the Company.
The appointment and removal of the the running of the Company.
The Senior Independent Company Secretary is a matter reserved specifically for Director is also available to the non-executive directors the Board.
should they have any concerns about the performance of the Chairman.
The non-executive directors formally INTERNAL CONTROL met in 2009 without the Chairman present to appraise The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups the Chairmans performance.
In addition to the annual internal control systems and for monitoring their Board performance evaluation, executive directors effectiveness.
Implementation and maintenance of participate in regular performance reviews with the the internal control systems are the responsibility of Group Chief Executive and are subject to a formal annual the executive directors and senior management.
The Chairman conducts regular performance effectiveness of the internal control systems is reviewed reviews of the Group Chief Executive.
regularly by the Audit Committee, the main operating boards, the Group Risk and Compliance Committee The Board has defined the roles of the Chairman, the during 2009 and the Risk Committee going forwards.
Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director and the division of responsibilities between The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast them so that no one individual has unfettered powers of performance of its businesses against their one year decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership plans and other key performance indicators.
Lines of and effective performance of the Board, effective responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly communication by the Board with the Companys defined.
The Groups control policies and procedures shareholders and, through the Company Secretary, are published on a dedicated intranet site, which is ensuring that Board members have the information they regularly updated and accessible throughout the Group.
require in order to discharge their responsibilities.
Senior managers are required to confirm compliance with these policies throughout the year.
The results of The Group Chief Executive is responsible for leading the this confirmation process are considered by the Audit day to day management of the Group within the strategy Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive chairs the Executive Committee of which all executive The Combined Code requires directors to review and directors are members together with the Chief Executive report to shareholders on the Groups internal control Officer Investments and Head of International.
The systems, which include financial, operational and Group Risk and Compliance Director, the Investor compliance controls, and risk management.
Relations and Strategy Director, the Human Resources Director and the Group General Counsel are all in regular attendance.
GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 49 The Board has controls in place to identify, evaluate ANNuAl GENERAl mEETING and manage significant risks faced by the Group on an The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.30am ongoing basis and for determining the effectiveness on Wednesday, 26 May 2010 at The Institution of of the system of internal controls.
Where failings or Engineering and Technology, Savoy place, london, weaknesses are identified, actions are taken to remedy WC2R 0Bl.
Both electronic and written proxy those failings or weaknesses.
Established procedures, appointment facilities are available for shareholders.
including those already described, are in place to comply Full details on the AGM, including explanatory notes, with the Code.
The Board assesses the effectiveness of are contained in the Notice which will be sent to internal control systems on the basis of: shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out the resolutions to be Regular reports by management to the main proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each.
operating boards and the Audit Committee on the All documents relating to the AGM are available on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control Companys website www.
systems and significant control issues.
The Notice of aGM also sets out the deadlines for The Group Risk and Compliance Committees review exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or of the process for formally identifying, evaluating and proxies to vote in relation to the resolutions to be managing the significant risks to the achievement of proposed at the meeting.
All proxy votes are recorded the Groups objectives.
in 2010, the Risk Committee and counted, and the numbers for, against or withheld will also have a role in this review.
in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after The regular compliance reports from the Group Risk the meeting.
Details of voting at the AGM, including and Compliance Director.
votes withheld, will be available on the Companys website directly after the meeting.
Reports from the Group Chief internal auditor to the Audit Committee on the results of internal audits.
COmplIANCE WITh ThE COmBINED CODE For the year ended 31 December 2009, the Board The Board takes regular account of the significance believes that the Company complied with the principles of social, environmental and ethical matters to and provisions of the Combined Code to the extent the businesses of the Group.
The work of the CSR they apply to the Company.
A copy of the Code can be Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief obtained from the Company Secretary at the registered Executive, is outlined on page 71. office of the Company and is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board has regard to materiality and to the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from, internal control systems.
For 2009, the Board was able to conclude, with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control systems were maintained throughout the year.
