100 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Lloyds Banking Group aspires to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The events of the past two years have led to unprecedented challenges for the Group and the markets as a whole.
Throughout this period we have constantly reviewed and refreshed our approach to corporate governance to ensure that it is robust, well embedded and at the forefront of best practice.
This report gives detailed information on our corporate governance arrangements for 2009 and outlines how we apply the principles of the 2006 Combined Code the Code.
The Company believes it has complied throughout the year with all of the provisions of section 1 of the Code.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES At the year end, the board comprised the chairman, five executive directors and seven independent non-executive directors.
Sir Winfried Bischoff succeeded Sir Victor Blank as chairman on 15 September 2009.
Details of his selection and appointment process are set out on page 102.
Details of other directors that joined and left the board during 2009 are shown on page 98.
The board considers that it is of an appropriate size to oversee the Groups businesses, with a suitable diversity of backgrounds and mix of experience and expertise to maximise its effectiveness.
The composition of the board is kept under continuous review by the chairman, with the support of the nomination and governance committee, to ensure the right balance of skills and experience.
All director appointments are subject to detailed due diligence which includes a robust search and selection process overseen by the nominations and governance committee.
On 11 February 2010, the Company announced the appointments of Mr Moreno and Mr Roberts to take effect on 1 March 2010.
Their details are included in the biographies on pages 96 and 97.
The chairman is responsible for leading the board and ensuring its effectiveness while the group chief executive manages the Groups business these are distinct functions.
The chairman is responsible for the clarity and timeliness of information provided to the board and for facilitating the effective contribution of all directors and ensures that directors receive appropriate induction and ongoing training.
The chairman has a key role in the development jointly with the group chief executive of the Groups strategy, as well as oversight of strategy implementation and performance delivery.
He ensures that there is a constructive, close working relationship with the group chief executive and the rest of the board.
MEETINGS Responding to the challenges faced by the Company, the board held 28 meetings during 2009.
In addition there was regular contact with directors outside of these meetings.
The time commitment demanded of directors, in particular, non-executive directors, was far in excess of that anticipated in the normal course of business.
All directors showed themselves to be willing and able to devote the additional time required often at short notice and at unsociable hours.
INDEPENDENCE All the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent both in character and judgment and free of relationships or circumstances which could affect their judgement.
Throughout the year at least half of the board comprised independent non-executive directors.
INDUCTION AND TRAINING All new directors and committee members receive a full and tailored induction.
The primary aim of the induction programme is to provide directors with a comprehensive introduction to the Group: its individual businesses: business models: strategy: and risks.
This enables directors to make an early, informed and effective contribution to board debates, based on an understanding of the key challenges facing the Group, the Groups businesses, and the business model.
The induction programme is supplemented by ongoing training and development.
The current induction and training programmes are being reviewed and enhanced to ensure that they meet the requirement for a substantive and personalised programme as recommended by the Walker Review of Corporate Governance of UK Banking Industry published in November 2009.
BOARD EVALUATION In autumn 2009, the board, supported by JCA Group, conducted a rigorous process of evaluating its effectiveness, and the effectiveness of its principal committees.
The process included confidential, unattributable, one-on-one interviews with every board member and with UKFI and the Groups external auditors.
The review covered corporate governance, board effectiveness, strategy development, risk management and board and committee organisation, composition, operation and dynamics.
In addition, although early in his tenure, the review also considered the performance of the chairman, including the effectiveness of his relationships with the group chief executive and other members of the board.
The outcomes of the review were subsequently discussed by the board as a whole.
The review was conducted during a period of significant change for the board with several members leaving and a number of relatively new members.
The board members individually and collectively considered that the board is working as an effective whole.
After the significant challenges faced by the Group and the board in 2009, the review highlighted the importance of returning to a more normal operating mode by focusing on delivering the integration, developing the future strategy, and reviewing the operations and risk management for the Group as a whole and within each of the key areas.
In addition, the review encouraged continued vigorous debate in the board and committees and emphasised the importance of succession plans for the management team and non-executive directors.
An action plan has been developed to ensure that the chief conclusions OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 101 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 of the review are addressed in a timely manner.
As part of this, it has been agreed that issues of risk, liquidity and funding should receive particularly high attention in 2010.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting AGM.
Following their appointment, Sir Winfried Bischoff, Mr Moreno and Mr Roberts will stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Company requires all directors to stand for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
At the 2010 AGM, Dr Berndt, Mr Daniels and Mrs Weir will retire and seek re-election by shareholders.
The chairman has endorsed the effectiveness and commitment of all directors standing for election or re-election at the AGM, and the senior independent director has given a similar endorsement in respect of the chairmans election.
COMPANY SECRETARY AND INDEPENDENT ADVICE The Company Secretary, Mr Baines, is responsible for advising the board on corporate governance matters and, in conjunction with the chairman, for ensuring good information flows between the board, its committees, non-executive directors and senior executives.
All directors have access to his advice and services.
Additionally, if required in the furtherance of their duties, non-executive directors along with any other members of the boards main committees are entitled to seek independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The board, as permitted by the Groups articles of association, has authorised all potential conflicts of interest declared by individual directors.
Decisions regarding these conflicts of interest could only be taken by directors who had no interest in the matter.
In taking the decision, the directors acted in a way they considered, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors had the ability to impose conditions, if thought appropriate, when granting authorisation.
Any authorities given will be reviewed at least every 15 months.
No director is permitted to vote on any resolution or matter where he or she has an actual or potential conflict of interest.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The investor relations team has primary, day-to-day responsibility for managing communications with institutional shareholders through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders both at the interim and year end results and throughout the year, site visits and individual discussions between institutional shareholders and board members and key senior executives.
Regular dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that the Companys strategy is understood and that any queries or other issues are addressed in a constructive way.
In 2009, there has been extensive and regular engagement with institutional shareholders and UKFI, the body set up to manage the Governments investments in banks.
The board receives weekly reports on market and investor sentiment and opinion which helps it develop a balanced understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The company secretary oversees communications with private shareholders.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate in the Groups AGM.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The audit committee comprises Mr Scicluna chairman, Lord Leitch, Mr Ryan and Mr Watson.
The committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary and are displayed on our website, www.
During the year, the audit committee received reports from, and held discussions with, management and the external auditors.
In discharging its duties, the committee has approved the auditors terms of engagement, including their remuneration and, in discussion with them, has assessed their independence and objectivity more information about which is given in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, in relation to the procedure for approving fees for audit and non-audit work and recommended their re-appointment at the AGM.
The committee also reviewed the financial statements published in the name of the board and the quality and acceptability of the related accounting policies, practices and financial reporting disclosures: the scope of the work of the group audit department, reports from that department and the adequacy of its resources: the effectiveness of the systems for internal control, risk management and compliance with financial services legislation and regulations more information about which is given in the note about internal control on page 104 : the results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness: and reports from the external auditors on audit planning and their findings on accounting and internal control systems.
Procedures for handling complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and for staff to raise concerns in confidence have been established by the committee.
The committee also had a meeting with the auditors, without executives present, and a meeting with the group audit director alone.
CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE The chairmans committee, comprising the chairman, deputy chairman and the group chief executive, meets to assist the chairman in ensuring the effectiveness and efficiency of board meetings.
The committee exercises specific powers delegated to it by the board from time to time.
102 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE To ensure that the Groups governance arrangements take due account of best practice developments, the nomination and governance committee has expanded its terms of reference to expressly include governance issues.
The nomination and governance committee is chaired by Sir Winfried Bischoff.
Lord Leitch, Dr Berndt and Sir Julian Horn-Smith are members.
The committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the board: oversees the selection process for prospective directors: makes recommendations to the board on potential appointments and re-appointments of directors at the end of their specified term: and considers board succession.
Following expansion of its terms of reference, it also reviews the boards governance arrangements and oversees the Companys implementation of governance requirements eg under the Walker Review and Combined Code.
The committee is responsible for overseeing the process for appointments of new non-executive directors and making recommendations to the board.
In 2009, two new non-executive director appointments were announced.
A further two appointments were announced on 11 February 2010.
All appointments are subject to a rigorous search and selection process.
In addition, on 26 July 2009, the appointment of Sir Winfried Bischoff as chairman of Lloyds Banking Group was recommended to, and approved by, the board, following the process set out below.
Chairmans succession On 18 May 2009, following Sir Victor Blanks decision to step down from the board, a sub-committee of the nomination committee was established to oversee the chairmans succession.
The committee was chaired by Sir Julian Horn-Smith.
Membership was made-up entirely of independent non-executive directors, namely Dr Berndt, Mr Green, Sir David Manning and Mr Watson.
There was an open invitation to other non-executive directors to attend meetings.
Ms McCall was a regular attendee: Mr Ryan and Mr Scicluna also attended a number of meetings.
As deputy chairman, Lord Leitch was kept advised of developments and, towards the latter end of the process, was invited to join meetings.
The committee was advised by the group human resources director and the head of secretariat.
Sir Victor Blank did not participate in any part of the process.
Following a tender process, the committee appointed Jan Hall of JCA Group, as executive search advisor.
Activities included agreeing the role specification and selection criteria: reviewing applicant profiles and agreeing short lists: reviewing shareholder feedback and ultimately recommending the appointment of Sir Winfried Bischoff to the board.
In conjunction with the remuneration committee, the committee also proposed the terms and conditions of appointment for the new chairman.
Between meetings, there were regular updates on progress.
Short listed candidates were subject to an extensive interview process, initially by panels of committee members along with other directors.
Ms McCall and Lord Leitch also participated in the interview process.
All executive and non-executive directors were given the opportunity to meet the candidates prior to any decision being made.
Detailed referencing and due diligence, both formal and informal, was also carried out.
The appointment was subject to, and received, approval from the Financial Services Authority.
The views of institutional shareholders including UKFI were sought prior to any decision being made.
Those shareholders consulted confirmed that they were satisfied that the search and selection process had been robust and extensive.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Information about the remuneration committees membership and work is given in the directors remuneration report on pages 105 to 125.
Its terms of reference are available from the company secretary and are displayed on the Companys website, www.
RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE The risk oversight committee comprises Lord Leitch chairman, Sir Winfried Bischoff, Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Mr Ryan, Mr Scicluna and Mr Watson.
There is a standing invitation for all other non-executive directors to attend meetings of the committee.
The risk oversight committees duties include overseeing the development, implementation and maintenance of the Groups overall risk management framework, and its risk appetite, strategy, principles and policies, to ensure they are in line with emerging regulatory, corporate governance and industry best practice.
The committee also oversees the Groups risk exposures: facilitates the involvement of non-executive directors in risk issues and aids their understanding of these issues: oversees adherence to Group risk policies and standards and considers any material amendments to them: and reviews the work of the group risk division.
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The group executive committee, comprising the group chief executive, all the group executive directors as shown on page 97, together with the chief risk officer, the group human resources director and the director of group operations, meets to assist the group chief executive in performing his duties.
Specifically, the committee considers the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies and budgets: the monitoring of operating and financial performance: the assessment and control of risk: the prioritisation and allocation of resources: and the monitoring of competitive forces in each area of operation.
The committee, assisted by its sub-committees, the group business risk and group asset and liability committees, also supports the group chief executive in endeavouring to ensure the development, implementation and effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the clear articulation of the Groups risk policies, and in reviewing the Groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 103 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The attendance of directors at board meetings and at meetings of the audit, nomination and governance, remuneration and risk oversight committees during 2009 were as follows: Nomination and Board meetings Audit governance Remuneration Risk oversight Regular Ad hoc Total committee committee committee committee Number of meetings during the year 9 19 28 8 2 13 4 Current directors who served during 2009 Dr W C G Berndt 9 15 24 2 13 1 Sir Winfried Bischoff 37 10 max 10 3 max 3 1 max 1 J E Daniels 9 19 28 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 8 17 25 2 8 3 A G Kane 9 19 28 2 Lord Leitch 8 19 27724 max 5 4 3 T T Ryan 71421 max 22 5 max 5 3 max 3 M A Scicluna 9 18 27 8 4 G T Tate 8 18 26 T J W Tookey 9 19 28 4 Anthony Watson 71118 max 20 3 max 3 2 max 2 H A Weir 9 19 28 Former directors who served during 2009 5 Sir Victor Blank 61117 max 18 10 max 10 3 max 3 6 Ewan Brown 46 10 max 12 4 max 5 2 max 2 7 J P du Plessis 268 max 9 3 max 4 1 max 1 1 max 2 8 P N Green 71017 max 22 6 max 7 1 max 2 7 max 11 9 Sir David Manning 71522 max 26 1 max 1 12 max 12 4 10 C J McCall 91120 7 max 12 1 Appointed to the board, nomination and governance, remuneration and risk oversight committees on 15 September 2009.
2 Appointed to the remuneration committee on 4 August 2009.
3 Appointed to the board, audit and risk oversight committees on 1 March 2009.
4 Appointed to the board on 2 April 2009.
Appointed to the audit and risk oversight committees on 6 May 2009.
5 Left the board on 15 September 2009.
8 Left the board on 23 October 2009.
9 Left the board on 2 November 2009.
10 Appointed to the remuneration committee on 23 January 2009.
Left the board on 31 December 2009.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 127 to 260 the Company and the Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
104 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued A copy of the financial statements of the Company is placed on our website, www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE BRITISH BANKERS ASSOCIATION DRAFT CODE FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING DISCLOSURE In October 2009, the British Bankers Association published a draft Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the Disclosure Code.
The draft Disclosure Code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that UK banks: commit to providing high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: commit to ongoing review of, and enhancement to, their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest: will assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: will seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures across the UK banking sector: and will clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited and information that is unaudited.
The Group and other major UK banks have voluntarily adopted the draft Disclosure Code in their 2009 financial statements.
The Groups 2009 financial statements have therefore been prepared in compliance with the draft Disclosure Codes principles.
INTERNAL CONTROL The board of directors is responsible for the establishment and review of Lloyds Banking Groups system of internal control, which is designed to ensure effective and efficient operations, quality of internal and external reporting, internal control, and compliance with laws and regulations.
It should be noted, however, that such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the directors have regard to the nature and extent of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control.
It follows, therefore, that the system of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material loss.
The directors and senior management are committed to maintaining a control-conscious culture across all areas of operation.
This is communicated to all employees by way of published policies and procedures and regular management briefings.
A requirement to comply with internal control risk policies is a key component of individual staff objectives expressed in the balanced scorecard.
Key business risks are identified, and these are controlled by means of procedures such as physical controls, credit, trading and other authorisation limits and segregation of duties.
In addition, there is an annual control self assessment exercise whereby the key businesses and head office functions review specific controls and attest to the accuracy of their assessments.
The assessment covers all enterprise-wide risk management categories and is in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code.
As in previous years, this exercise was completed for the year ended 31 December 2009.
All returns have been satisfactorily completed and appropriately certified.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the board and the audit committee, which also receives reports of reviews undertaken around Lloyds Banking Group by group risk and group audit.
The audit committee receives reports from the Companys auditors,  LLP which include details of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has a discussion with the auditors at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND REMUNERATION Both the board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The audit committee has a comprehensive policy to regulate the use of auditors for non-audit services.
This policy sets out the nature of work the external auditors may not undertake, which includes work which will ultimately be subject to external audit, internal audit services and secondments to senior management positions in the Group that involve decision-making.
It also includes the Groups policy on hiring former external audit staff.
For those services that are deemed appropriate for the auditors to carry out, the policy sets out the approval process that must be followed for each type of assignment.
The chairman of the audit committee must be consulted regarding potential instructions in respect of defined non-audit services with a value above defined limits.
Each year the audit committee establishes a limit on the fees that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit services and monitors quarterly the amounts paid to the auditors in this regard.
The external auditors also report regularly to the committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
This includes the rotation of key members of the audit team.
Total auditor remuneration analysed between audit and other services is shown in note 11 to the accounts on page 158.
GOING CONCERN The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future, the directors have considered a number of key dependencies which are set out in the risk management section under Principal Risks: Liquidity and Funding on page 61 and Financial Soundness on pages 81 to 89 and additionally have considered projections for the Groups capital and funding position.
Having considered these, the directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
