GoveRnAnce coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce london stock exchAnGe GRoup plc is committed to hiGh stAndARds of coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce And business inteGRity in All its Activities.
the compAny hAs complied with All pRovisions of the combined code thRouGhout the yeAR ended 31 mARch 2009 The Combined Code on Corporate boARd of diRectoRs Governance sets out guidance in the The Board is the principal decision making form of principles and provisions on forum for the Company and is responsible how companies should be directed and to shareholders for achieving the Groups controlled to follow good governance strategic objectives and for delivering practice.
The Financial Services Authority sustainable shareholder value.
The Board requires companies listed in the UK to has adopted a formal schedule of matters disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the specifically reserved to it including: Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied Corporate strategy: with its provisions throughout the year.
The annual budget: Where the provisions have not been Increases or variations to borrowing complied with companies must provide facilities: an explanation for this.
Further information Committing to major capital expenditure on the Combined Code can be found on or acquisitions: and the Financial Reporting Councils website, Dividend policy.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Appointments to the boARd are distinct and separate with a clear On 13 February 2009 the Company division of responsibilities.
The Chairman is announced that Xavier Rolet would be responsible for the running and leadership appointed to the Board with effect from of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
16 March 2009 and take over from Clara The Chairmans other current significant Furse as Chief Executive on 20 May 2009. commitments are set out in his biography Clara Furse will step down from the Board on page 35.
The Group Chief Executive has on 15 July 2009.
Mr Rolet was appointed delegated authority from, and is responsible following a selection process overseen by to, the Board for managing the business the Nominations Committee on behalf of with the power for further delegation in the Board.
Further details of the process respect of matters which are necessary are set out on page 38.
Doug Webb was for the effective running and management appointed to the Board as Chief Financial of the business.
The process for his appointment was described in the The Board also views the brands and 2008 Annual Report.
reputations as regulated entities of its direct and indirect subsidiaries as important assets of the Group.
Protection of brand and reputation are key parts of the Boards role.
At each scheduled Board meeting the Chief Executives of London Stock Exchange plc and Borsa Italiana S. p. A. provided a review of the business and the Chief Financial Officer provided a detailed review of the Groups financial performance and position.
The executive management team present to the Board on their business responsibilities on a regular basis and also present at the Boards periodic strategy sessions.
London Stock Exchange Group 36 Annual Report 2009 the woRlds cApitAl mARket boARd And committee meetinGs 2009 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Total number of 3 10 4 5 3 Meetings in the year ended 31 March 2009 Dr Chris GibsonSmith 10 5 3 Mr Angelo Tantazzi 9 3 3 Dame Clara Furse 10 2 Mr Xavier Rolet 1 Mr Massimo Capuano 7 1 Mr Doug Webb 9 Baroness Janet Cohen 9 3 Mr Sergio Ermotti 8 5 The Board has six scheduled meetings in Mr Oscar Fanjul 9 4 5 3 addition to two offsite strategy sessions Mr Andrea Munari 10 3 and ad hoc meetings when needed.
In 2009 the Board held 10 meetings.
The Chairman Mr Paolo Scaroni 8 5 2 meets non-executive directors without the presence of executive directors on a Mr Nigel Stapleton 9 2 number of occasions throughout Mr Robert Webb 6 5 3 the year.
1 When directors have not been able to Joined the Board with effect from 2 June 2008 2 attend meetings due to conflicts in their Joined the Board with effect from 16 March 2009 3 schedule, they receive and read papers to In addition Nomination Committee members attended a number of interviews with candidates for the be considered at the relevant meeting.
They CEO position have the opportunity to provide comments on the matters to be discussed to the Board considers that directors demonstrate boARd tRAininG Chairman of the meeting in advance.
a strong range of business experience and On joining the Board, Directors are offered the Board has the right mix of skills and a tailored induction programme covering Directors have the benefit of indemnity experience given the size and geography the business of the Group, and they receive arrangements from the Company in respect of the Group.
briefings and presentations from relevant of liabilities incurred as a result of their office executives.
Periodically the Board meets at and execution of their powers, duties and The Board has concluded that all Nonthe Groups Milan office and briefings are responsibilities.
In respect of those liabilities Executive Directors were independent in also given at Board meetings on particular for which directors may not be indemnified, character, that there were no relationships parts of the business.
the Company purchased and obtained a or circumstances which are likely to affect directors and officers liability insurance their independent judgement and no undue peRfoRmAnce evAluAtion policy throughout 2009.
This insurance reliance was placed on any individual.
The annual performance evaluation of the cover was renewed at the beginning of Board and its Committees was undertaken the current financial year.
Neither the Sergio Ermotti and Andrea Munari are in 2009 and was conducted by the Group Companys indemnity nor insurance employed by Unicredit and Banca IMI Company Secretary using a detailed provides cover in the event that the director respectively, both of which are shareholders questionnaire.
The results of the review is proved to have acted fraudulently of the Company and customers of one of are used to highlight areas of strength and or dishonestly.
the Companys subsidiaries, Borsa Italiana, weakness, assist in consideration of the and their employer companies supply future development of the Board and its boARd bAlAnce And banking services and financial lines to the Committees and further improve their independence Group.
The Combined Code suggests that performance.
The review also included There is a strong non-executive element such a business relationship may affect an assessment of the Chairmans on the Board and Non-Executive Directors independence.
However the Board continue performance.
provide strong company experience and to believe that both are independent given knowledge which they apply to their the significance of the customer The results were discussed by the Board understanding of the Group and its relationships to the Group as a whole, the and actions agreed where appropriate.
When Clara Furse steps down fact that neither Mr Munari nor Mr Ermotti The evaluation concluded that the Board from the Board on 15 July, the Board will is directly involved in decisions relating to and its Committees were working comprise 12 directors, the Chairman who the investment in the Company or banking effectively.
Actions identified included was independent on appointment, three arrangements and both demonstrate facilitating more contact between nonexecutive directors and eight independent behaviours indicating independence.
executives and management both inside Non-Executive Directors.
Directors serving and outside the boardroom to gain a better on the Boards committees, together with understanding of the business and biographical details, are identified on the succession planning to be considered by Board of Directors pages 34 and 35.
The the whole Board on a more regular basis.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 37 GoveRnAnce coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce conflicts of inteRest www.
The Committee Following changes made by the Companies or are available on request from the Group also reviews and approves the terms of Act 2006, the Articles of Association were Company Secretary.
engagement and remuneration of the amended at the 2008 Annual General external auditors.
Details of the amounts Meeting to allow the Board to authorise meetinGs paid to the external auditors are given in potential conflicts of interest that may arise All members of the Committee are note 39 to the Group financial statements.
and to impose such limits or conditions as independent non-executive directors.
The Company established a The Committee met four times during the The Committee recognises that certain procedure whereby actual and potential year and maintains a formal agenda which work of a non-audit nature is best conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed ensures that all matters for which the undertaken by the external auditors and has and for the appropriate authorisation to be Committee is responsible are addressed established a policy governing the provision sought prior to the appointment of any new at the appropriate time of the year.
The policy defines: director or if a new conflict arises.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman decision to authorise a conflict of interest of the Board, Chief Financial Officer, Head Those services the external auditors can only be made by non-conflicted of Group Internal Audit and the Groups are permitted to provide: directors and in making such decision the external auditors,  Those services which the external directors must act in a way they consider, LLP, to attend its meetings.
However, the auditors are prohibited from providing: in good faith, will be most likely to promote Committee recognises the need to meet and the Companys success.
The Board without executive management and meets Those services which require the prior believes that during 2009 this procedure privately after each committee meeting with authorisation of the Committee.
each of the external auditors and the Head of Group Internal Audit, both of whom also The Committee annually reviews all boARd committees have direct access to the Chair of the non-audit services provided by the external Remuneration committee Audit Committee.
auditor to ensure compliance with the The Committee members as at 31 March policy.
The Committee remains satisfied 2009 were: Robert Webb Chairman, Activities with the objectivity and independence of Chris Gibson-Smith, Oscar Fanjul, Paolo During the year the Committee discharged the Groups external auditors.
All members its responsibilities as set out in its terms of of the Committee are considered to be reference by reviewing the following: The Committee has written terms of independent.
The Committee normally reference which are available from the invites the Chief Executive and Head of The integrity of the Groups financial Group Company Secretary or at the Human Resources to attend the meeting.
statements, including significant corporate governance section of the The Committee meets at least twice a year corporate governance and financial website at to review and present recommendations reporting matters with particular focus www.
to the Board regarding remuneration and during the year under review on conditions of service of the Chairman, impairment judgements, the Boards nomination committee Chief Executive and executive directors, going concern statement, adequacy The Nomination Committee members as at including the grant of entitlements under of financing, and the controls around 31 March 2009 were: Chris Gibson-Smith the Companys share schemes.
A separate counterparty risks with banks: Chairman, Oscar Fanjul, Robert Webb, Remuneration Report is set out on pages The external auditors report their Angelo Tantazzi and Paolo Scaroni.
The Committee has written terms findings from the half year review and Committees role is to review the size and of reference which are available from the year end audit: structure of the Board, succession planning Group Company Secretary or at the The effectiveness of the Groups internal and to make recommendations to the Board corporate governance section of the control environment: on potential candidates for the Board.
The website at The remit and performance of the Committee normally invites the Chief www.
Groups internal audit department: Executive to attend.
Key findings from internal audit reviews Audit committee and actions taken in response by The Committee met three times during The Committee members as at 31 March management: the year.
The Committee led the process 2009 were: Oscar Fanjul Chairman, Janet The internal audit department annual for the appointment of the new CEO.
Cohen, Nigel Stapleton, Angelo Tantazzi plan: and The Committee worked with external and Andrea Munari.
All members of the The Groups arrangements for whistle recruitment consultants and developed Committee are considered to be blowing.
an objective set of criteria against which independent.
In accordance with ICAEW candidates were measured.
The Chairman Guidance for Audit Committees as set out The Committee recognises that one of met candidates before recommending a in the Smith Guidance, the Board is satisfied its key responsibilities is reviewing the shortlist to the Committee.
Shortlisted at least one member of the Committee has effectiveness of the Groups risk candidates were interviewed by members recent and relevant financial experience.
Twice a year the of the Committee before a final Committee reviews reports from the internal recommendation was made to the Board.
Role of the Audit committee audit department on the output from this All Board members met Xavier Rolet before The Committee has formal terms of process and any significant findings arising.
his appointment was confirmed by the reference, which are approved by the Board.
The Committee has written terms Board and satisfy the requirements of the The Committee has an oversight role in of reference which are available from the Combined Code and the Smith Guidance.
relation to the relationship with the Groups Group Company Secretary or at the The terms of reference are reviewed on external auditors.
Annually the Committee corporate website at an ongoing basis by the Board and can assesses the independence and objectivity www.
be found on the Companys website at of its external auditors and their qualification, London Stock Exchange Group 38 Annual Report 2009 the woRlds cApitAl mARket inteRnAl contRol receives reports from the Groups external facility to receive notification of updates and The Board has overall responsibility for auditors on certain internal controls and new releases.
A shareholder helpline and the system of internal controls.
The Board relevant financial reporting matters.
email address are provided to help contact has delegated responsibility to the Audit between investors and the Company.
Committee for reviewing the Groups Risk Management responsibility for system of internal control and for risk management rests fully with line During the year the Board receives regularly monitoring its effectiveness.
Each business area is a report on Investor Relations matters This established system of internal control required to maintain a risk register outlining at each of its scheduled meetings, includes financial, operational and the key risks it faces and the controls in including market expectations of financial compliance controls and risk management.
place to mitigate these risks.
The risk performance, share register composition The system of controls is designed to registers are periodically updated, with the and feedback from major investors.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of most senior executive in each business area The Company also receives advice on failure to achieve the Groups objectives, required to confirm the effectiveness of the shareholder relations and share register and can only provide reasonable, and not controls in place.
These are consolidated by analysis from external advisers.
absolute, assurance against material the internal audit department into a Group mis-statement or loss.
The Board confirms risk profile which is discussed and agreed The Annual General Meeting AGM that, through the Audit Committee, it has by the CEO Committee the executive provides the opportunity for shareholders reviewed the effectiveness of the system committee which reports to the CEO, to meet directors and they are encouraged of internal control and no significant failings and then presented to the Audit Committee to put questions to the Board.
The or weaknesses were identified during this for approval.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and review.
However, had there been any Nomination Committees are available to failings or weaknesses the Board confirms Policies and procedures policies and answer questions.
The procedures for the that any necessary actions would have procedures have been developed for AGM are compliant with the Combined been taken to remedy them.
The Board key business areas including the Code and the event is normally attended is satisfied that the system of internal Groups finance function.
These are by all directors.
Voting at the AGM is by control is in accordance with the Turnbull reviewed and kept up-to-date to meet way of a poll to ensure all shareholders guidance 2005. changing business needs.
views are taken into account.
The principal features of the Companys RelAtions with shAReholdeRs heAlth, sAfety And internal control framework are described Communication with shareholders, and with enviRonment under the following headings: financial analysts who produce research The Companys approach to health, safety on the Company, is managed through an and the environment is set out in our Delegation of authority the Board has extensive programme of meetings, calls, Corporate Responsibility statement implemented a management structure presentations and news releases throughout on pages 30 and 31. with defined lines of responsibility and the year.
This Investor Relations programme appropriate delegation of authority.
is designed to ensure investors have The day-to-day business management appropriate access to management and is delegated to Executive directors, with information to understand the performance a clear definition of those matters reserved and prospects of the Company.
The Investor for Board approval only.
Key financial risks Relations team has day to day contact with are controlled by clear authorisation levels the market.
The Chief Executive Officer, and appropriate segregation of duties.
Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer Formal authorisation policies and all engage in regular dialogue with procedures are clearly defined for all shareholders, and the Chairman and Senior capital expenditure including appraisal Independent Director are also available to techniques and success criteria.
meet major investors from time to time.
Senior management and the Investor Planning and reporting the Chief Relations team held meetings and calls Executives of London Stock Exchange with over 240 shareholders and potential and Borsa Italiana report to the Board on investors in the UK, Europe, the Middle East key business matters at each meeting.
and the US during the past year.
The Chief Financial Officer reports on financial, HR and investor relations matters.
The Investor Relations section of the The Deputy CEO reports on integration.
website at The Board reviews performance through www.
com is a comprehensive financial review process the primary source of regularly updated which includes an annual budget approved information on the Company.
Annual and by the Board, monthly reporting of financial interim reports, interim management and key performance indicators, analysis statements, news releases, presentations of variances and corrective action to investor conferences and other key where required.
documents are archived on the website together with a summary of analysts Audit Committee the Board receives estimates.
Presentations of preliminary regular reports from the Audit Committee and interim results are accessible by all on the effectiveness of the internal control shareholders by webcasts in real time and environment and the risk management also via replay for a period after the event.
The Audit Committee also Users are able to register with an alerting London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report 2009 39
