GoveRnAnce coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce london stock exchAnGe GRoup plc is committed to hiGh stAndARds of coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce And business inteGRity in All its Activities.
the compAny hAs complied with All pRovisions of the combined code thRouGhout the yeAR ended 31 mARch 2009 The Combined Code on Corporate boARd of diRectoRs Governance sets out guidance in the The Board is the principal decision making form of principles and provisions on forum for the Company and is responsible how companies should be directed and to shareholders for achieving the Groups controlled to follow good governance strategic objectives and for delivering practice.
The Financial Services Authority sustainable shareholder value.
The Board requires companies listed in the UK to has adopted a formal schedule of matters disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the specifically reserved to it including: Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied Corporate strategy: with its provisions throughout the year.
The annual budget: Where the provisions have not been Increases or variations to borrowing complied with companies must provide facilities: an explanation for this.
Further information Committing to major capital expenditure on the Combined Code can be found on or acquisitions: and the Financial Reporting Councils website, Dividend policy.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Appointments to the boARd are distinct and separate with a clear On 13 February 2009 the Company division of responsibilities.
The Chairman is announced that Xavier Rolet would be responsible for the running and leadership appointed to the Board with effect from of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
16 March 2009 and take over from Clara The Chairmans other current significant Furse as Chief Executive on 20 May 2009. commitments are set out in his biography Clara Furse will step down from the Board on page 35.
The Group Chief Executive has on 15 July 2009.
Mr Rolet was appointed delegated authority from, and is responsible following a selection process overseen by to, the Board for managing the business the Nominations Committee on behalf of with the power for further delegation in the Board.
Further details of the process respect of matters which are necessary are set out on page 38.
Doug Webb was for the effective running and management appointed to the Board as Chief Financial of the business.
The process for his appointment was described in the The Board also views the brands and 2008 Annual Report.
reputations as regulated entities of its direct and indirect subsidiaries as important assets of the Group.
Protection of brand and reputation are key parts of the Boards role.
At each scheduled Board meeting the Chief Executives of London Stock Exchange plc and Borsa Italiana S. p. A. provided a review of the business and the Chief Financial Officer provided a detailed review of the Groups financial performance and position.
The executive management team present to the Board on their business responsibilities on a regular basis and also present at the Boards periodic strategy sessions.
London Stock Exchange Group 36 Annual Report 2009
