Man Group plc 48 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Board committees governance to safeguard the interests of shareholders and other The Board has delegated certain of its governance responsibilities to stakeholders.
The following report describes how the principles three dedicated committees, namely the Audit and Risk, Remuneration contained in the Combined Code on Governance the Code have and Nomination Committees which are composed solely of nonbeen applied by the Company during the year ended 31 March 2009 executive directors.
All the non-executive directors are currently the year.
The Company has complied throughout the year with members of all the committees.
In addition, the Chairman is a member the best practice provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code subject of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Nomination to the exceptions highlighted in the report below.
The full terms of reference of all the committees are given on our website www.
Board membership The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and Summary terms of reference for and a report on the activities of the Finance Director, and five independent non-executive directors.
Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees are given later in this Glen Moreno is currently the Senior Independent Director and Alison section of the Annual Report.
Carnwath has agreed to take over this role on his retirement at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board is fully satisfied that, Summary terms of reference for and a report on the work of the notwithstanding his long tenure of office, Glen continues to bring Remuneration Committee are set out in the separate Remuneration robust independence of thought and substantial challenge to Board Report on pages 53 to 65.
This gives a full description of the debate.
The Board draws great strength from the length of service, Companys policy and practice on executive directors remuneration industry understanding and broad financial expertise of all its and service contracts and explains how the Chairmans compensation non-executive members and proposes to develop and refresh this and non-executive directors fees are determined.
It should be noted knowledge and experience base with new recruitment in 2009. that the Chairmans compensation is considered by the Remuneration Biographical details of all the current directors of the Company Committee which makes a recommendation to the Board for approval.
It is considered that this is the most appropriate way of determining the Chairmans compensation, rather than allowing it to be set solely by the Role of the Board Remuneration Committee as provided by the Code.
The role of the Board is to determine and review business direction and strategy, monitor executive performance, oversee the management of Board meetings risk and internal controls, and ensure that the Company discharges its The Board holds at least seven formal Board meetings a year, of which responsibilities to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board has at least one comprises a full day strategy review.
In 2008 9, as a follow delegated responsibility for day-to-day management of the business to up to its full day strategy review, the Board devoted significant time the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and their management team.
within its regular Board meetings to reviewing progress on strategy The strategic, financial and risk authorities delegated by the Board, and implementation, with particular focus on the development of Mans new those matters reserved for its decision, are documented and subject to integrated hedge fund management business.
Board conference calls, regular review.
in which all Board members are invited to participate, are arranged to take forward and finalise matters such as trading statements which There is an effective working relationship between the Chairman and have previously been discussed in outline at a Board meeting.
the Chief Executive based on a clear understanding of their separate Appropriate arrangements have been put in place for dealing with roles.
However, it has not been considered necessary formally to urgent issues which arise unexpectedly between meetings.
There is document this differentiation as required by the Code.
The Chairman regular contact outside formal meetings between the Chairman and is responsible for the operation of the Board and the discharge of the individual non-executive and executive directors.
In addition, the Companys responsibilities to shareholders.
The Chief Executive is non-executive directors take opportunities to discuss the Companys responsible for running the Companys business.
The Chairman is able business without the presence of their executive colleagues.
The table to devote a significant amount of time to running the Board and has no below indicates the number of meetings held during the year and other material business commitments.
Corporate Governance Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 49 Directors attendance at meetings The numbers of Board and Board committee meetings held and attended by individual directors during the year were as follows: Audit Board and Risk Remuneration Nomination meeting Committee Committee Committee 1 Jon Aisbitt 7 7 6 6 3 3 2 2 Alison Carnwath 7 7 4 6 3 3 2 2 Phillip Colebatch 7 7 6 6 3 3 2 2 Dugald Eadie 7 7 6 6 3 3 2 2 2 Stanley Fink 2 7 Glen Moreno 7 7 6 6 3 3 2 2 Patrick OSullivan 7 7 5 6 3 3 2 2 3 Peter Clarke 7 7 3 Kevin Hayes 7 7 1 Jon Aisbitt is not a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and attends meetings by invitation only.
2 Stanley Fink retired from the Board on 10 July 2008.
3 Peter Clarke and Kevin Hayes are not members of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees and attended meetings by invitation only.
Board information and development The process for contributing to and setting Board agendas has been formalised and streamlined during the year.
Work on creating an annual rolling agenda of cyclical business is in hand.
The timetable and process for the preparation, review and circulation of Board papers has been reviewed to ensure that full and timely information continues to be made available to Board members prior to meetings.
Slide presentations are circulated in advance wherever possible.
There is an annual programme for the rotation of Board meetings around the Companys main overseas locations to enhance the Boards understanding of the global business and give them the opportunity to meet local management teams.
Work is planned to update current induction arrangements for new non-executive directors to include presentations by the heads of the principal fund products and business streams.
All directors are aware that they may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense if they feel that circumstances warrant this.
Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance is in place.
Board evaluation An external evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board was carried out earlier this year.
This was led by an independent third party who engaged all Board members in a detailed review of Board governance, processes and culture supported by a structured questionnaire.
There was a similar though less detailed review of the operation of the principal Board committees.
A report on the key findings was presented to the Board for discussion and agreement on future actions.
This years evaluation also involved a confidential peer review of individual directors, feedback from which was discussed by the Chairman with each director individually.
Feedback on the Chairman was discussed with him by the Senior Independent Director.
The evaluation revealed a number of key areas for focus during the coming year.
These included a renewed emphasis on strategy review against the background of severe economic downturn, the continuing need for the Board to deepen their understanding of the marketplace in which the Group operates, increased oversight of executive director succession and senior management resource, a review of Board committee membership and the improvement of certain Board support functions.
Conflicts of interest In the course of last year, in anticipation of the coming into force of the Companies Act 2006 requirement for directors to avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest, the Board reviewed and authorised, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a small number of external directorships and other business interests held by individual directors which might be regarded as giving rise to actual or potential areas of conflict.
The most significant of these reported interests was Alison Carnwaths Chairmanship of MF Global.
In all cases where a potential conflict has been identified, it is Board policy that the director in question absents themself from any discussion of the area or issue which gives rise to the conflict and that no related papers or minutes of Board discussion are sent to them.
All directors are aware of their continuing obligation to report any new interests or changes in existing interests which might amount to a possible conflict of interest in order that these may be considered by the Board and appropriate authorisations given.
Board appointments The process for the appointment of directors to the Board is led by the Chairman and the Nomination Committee.
Details of this process are given in the report on the work carried out by the Nomination Committee during the year which follows this section.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three year term which may be followed by a further three year term by mutual agreement.
Any reappointment of a non-executive director beyond six years is subject to a challenging review of the directors contribution, taking account of the need for regular refreshing of non-executive expertise.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment indicate the approximate time commitment expected for the role and Board meetings are scheduled to maximise directors availability for Company business.
All directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and at least once every three years after that.
Non-executives who serve on the Board for more than nine years are subject to annual reappointment at the Annual General Meeting each year.
Man Group plc 50 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued Role and work of the Nomination Committee The Chairman of the Committee met separately with the Head of The role of the Committee, which comprises all the non-executive Internal Audit and with the external auditors on several occasions directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, is to: without the presence of any members of the executive management team and reported to the Committee on those discussions.
The keep under regular review the size, composition, experience and Committee met with the external auditors and the Head of Internal skill set of the Board and identify, against the challenges facing the Audit once during the year without the presence of the executive Company, any recruitment needs: management.
prepare for agreement by the Board the competency and experience specification for individual director searches: In addition to reviewing regular reports from the Finance Director, identify and recommend to the Board, against the agreed Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance and specification, candidates for Board appointments: Head of Risk as part of their routine work, other matters considered by review the senior management development and executive director the Committee during the year included: succession planning process to ensure the continuity of appropriate a review of the valuation and liquidity of fund positions: executive resource at and immediately below Board level.
a review of the tax risk framework: In May 2008 the Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board a review of IT controls: proposals to seek shareholder approval for the reappointment of a review of the accounting policy on the capitalisation of internal directors retiring at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
At the beginning IT staff costs: and of 2009 the Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference a review of the impairment of acquisition goodwill.
and agreed an annual meeting schedule for the conduct of its work.
In relation to the Companys risk management processes, the Most recently, the Committees focus has been on non-executive Committees focus during the year was on a number of key issues, director search.
This has involved reaching agreement on candidate including operational risks due to complexity of processes, valuation profile, reviewing long and short lists drawn up by executive search and liquidity of investments, governance of funds, organisation consultants, and considering the interview process.
Prospective structure after the sale of MF Global, and capital and liquidity candidates are interviewed by the Chairman, Chief Executive and requirements of the Group.
Senior Independent Director and feedback shared with the Committee to inform their selection and recommendation to the Board of a The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditors, preferred candidate.
All Committee members are able to meet a including the rotation of audit partner, each year and also assesses preferred candidate if they so wish prior to the formal recommendation their independence.
As a safeguard to help avoid the objectivity and to the Board.
independence of the external auditors becoming compromised, the Committee has approved a formal policy governing the engagement Later this year, in line with the new annual work programme, the of the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
This policy Committees focus will be on the review of executive director and precludes them from providing certain services including book senior management succession planning to ensure the continuing keeping, financial IT system design and implementation, financial appropriateness of executive resource at and just below Board level.
appraisal and valuation, and internal audit work and permits other Role and work of the Audit and Risk Committee limited services which are subject to low fee thresholds or which The Committee comprises all the non-executive directors under the require prior approval from the Committee.
Details of fees paid to the chairmanship of Dugald Eadie.
Patrick OSullivan is considered to have auditors for the year ended 31 March 2009 are set out in Note 4 c to recent and relevant financial experience.
the financial statements on page 89.
The role of the Committee is to: The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on matters discussed by the Committee after each meeting and on any review, prior to submission to the Board, the integrity of the recommended actions.
Companys annual and interim results announcements and financial statements: Internal control and risk management make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems removal of the external auditors, agree the nature and scope of their of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their work and review the effectiveness of their audit process: effectiveness.
The Audit and Risk Committee provides oversight review annually the independence of the external auditors and the and independent challenge in relation to internal control and risk policy on their engagement to supply non-audit services: management systems.
review and discuss with the external auditors their audit findings and recommendations and managements response: The directors and senior managers of the Group are committed review Internal Audit reports and consider managements response to maintaining high standards of control and a risk aware culture to their recommendations: and to safeguard the Companys assets, reputation and franchise.
review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk The Companys activities are subject to high levels of regulatory management systems.
oversight in many jurisdictions and significant resources are allocated to ensure compliance.
The Committee met six times during the year.
All meetings were attended by the Chairman, Finance Director and Financial Controller.
The Boards role includes: The Chief Executive attended the two meetings dedicated to the review setting the Companys risk appetite and overall risk of the draft Interim and Annual Reports.
The Heads of Group Risk management strategy: and Internal Audit and the external audit partner attended the other developing appropriate risk management and governance systems: four meetings.
A manager from within Group Risk acted as secretary establishing and maintaining effective monitoring of internal to the Committee.
Corporate Governance Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 51 A fuller description of the Companys risk management processes, After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation together with details of the principal risks faced, is given in the Risk that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue Management section of this Annual Report.
These processes have in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Report and have been regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, and ensure that the financial information used in the business and published externally is robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
They comply with the guidance given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
Review of internal controls The Board receives reports from the Risk Assurance Committee, Finance Committee and line management on the risks to the achievement of the Groups operational and financial objectives, Rachel Rowson Deputy Company Secretary, Jon Aisbitt Chairman and together with assurance that the level of risk sustained is consistent Miriam McKay Head of Investor Relations.
with and being managed in accordance with the Companys risk appetite.
Objective assurance on the operation and effectiveness of internal controls is provided by Internal Audit whose audit programme Communications with shareholders is targeted on the review and investigation of key risk controls.
Further Institutional investors objective assurance on the effectiveness of risk controls is provided by Man undertakes a comprehensive programme of meetings and events other functions, including Group Risk, Legal and Compliance.
for institutional investors and research analysts.
In the year under review, this programme included some 250 investor meetings, In addition to its ongoing monitoring of risk controls, the Board has preliminary and interim results presentations, and conference calls conducted a specific year end review of the effectiveness of the relating to interim management and pre-close trading statements.
Groups system of internal control and risk management during the The Chairman attends results presentations to investors, and investor year and for the period up to the date of this Annual Report.
This review feedback and opinion is circulated at least quarterly to the Board.
covered all controls operational, financial and compliance and risk The Chairman and Senior Independent Director made themselves management systems.
As part of this, the Board received an overview available for meetings with major shareholders in the course of the from the Audit and Risk Committee on the internal control environment year, although demand for these meetings was low.
and in depth reports on specific incidents and circumstances of loss which had occurred during the year which might indicate a weakness Private investors in the control framework.
The reports analysed the cause of the losses The Company likes to take the opportunity offered by the Annual and explored the extent to which they represented a control failure.
General Meeting to communicate directly with private shareholders.
Measures to address significant weaknesses or failures in control The Chairman gave a first quarter trading update on the Companys suggested by the reports have been identified and confirmation has business at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and this was followed been received from management that the necessary remedial actions by a brief presentation on the future of the business by the Chief have been or are being implemented.
Shareholders were invited to ask questions of the directors at the meeting itself and informally afterwards.
It is proposed to build Financial reporting and going concern on this approach at the 2009 Annual General Meeting and develop Explanations of the directors responsibilities for preparing the financial further the opportunity for business discussion and dialogue with statements are given on page 52 and the auditors responsibility for shareholders.
All the formal aspects of the Annual General Meeting reporting on those statements are given on page 74. are conducted in accordance with the Combined Code provisions.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Corporate website its future development, performance and position are set out in the In the course of the year, Man redesigned its corporate Business Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, website to improve communication with a range of stakeholders, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial including institutional and private shareholders.
Our website Review on pages 67 to 73, and in the Risk Management section on www.
com now includes information about the industry pages 40 to 43.
In addition, Note 9 to the financial statements includes, in which we operate, our strategy and business performance, or references, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for corporate responsibility initiatives, careers opportunities at Man and managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of key information for shareholders such as dividend payment schedules.
its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and as a consequence the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Man Group plc 52 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued Statement of directors responsibilities Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Transparency Rules the Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent company The directors confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and belief: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the the Group financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRSs Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial as adopted by the EU and the parent company financial statements Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and as prepared under UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, the parent company financial statements and the Remuneration Report liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom the management report contained in the Business Review includes Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted a fair review of the development and performance of the business Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent company financial and the position of the Company and Group, together with a statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Kevin Hayes Company Secretary select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 28 May 2009 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority to include a management report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each director confirms that so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
