PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Report of the Nominations Committee 98 Purpose Ruth Parasol DeLeon and Russell DeLeon.
The Nominations The Board has adopted a formal, rigorous and transparent Committee interviewed Mr Lerner and following a review procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board of his background decided that Mr Lerner was suitable for by appointing a Nominations Committee to lead the process appointment to the Board and recommended to the Board of appointment and make recommendations to the Board.
his appointment, which the Board effected on 4 March 2009.
In accordance with the Articles which require a Director to Membership retire at the first AGM following his appointment and to seek The members of the Nominations Committee are or were in re-appointment by Shareholders, Mr Lerner stood down and 2009 as follows: successfully sought re-appointment by Shareholders at the Rod Perry Chairman 2009 AGM.
Stephen Box No other appointments to the Board were made during 2009.
Tim Bristow In December 2009, however, the Nominations Committee John Davy resigned 4 March 2009 decided to begin the search for a new independent NonEmilio Gomez appointed 4 March 2009 and resigned Executive Director, although the pace of this process is 22 September 2009 subject to M&A developments involving the Company.
Rami Lerner appointed 15 December 2009 The Nominations Committee has overseen the preparation of Lewis Moonie a specification for the role and as with previous independent Jim Ryan Non-Executive Director appointments, an external search Responsibilities consultancy will be used to assist with the recruitment The Nominations Committee has adopted terms of process.
An announcement regarding an appointment may reference, approved by the Board that are available be made in due course depending on the results of the on the Companys website: search, selection and interview process.
AGM re-appointments In summary the main responsibilities of the Nominations The Articles dictate under the retirement by rotation provisions Committee are: that at every AGM one-third of the remaining Directors or, if to regularly review the Board structure, size and their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number composition including the skills, knowledge and nearest to one-third shall retire from office: but if any Director experience required of the Board compared to its current has at the start of the AGM been in office for three years or position and make recommendations to the Board with more since his last re-appointment, he shall retire at that AGM.
regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary: Consequently, Tim Bristow and Lewis Moonie will both retire at to give full consideration to succession planning for the 2010 AGM and seek re-appointment.
Directors and other senior management in the course of its The Nominations Committee has reviewed these rework, taking into account the challenges and opportunities appointments and on the basis of experience, performance, facing the Company, and what skills and expertise are skills and commitment demonstrated, has recommended to needed on the Board in the future: the Board that all the Directors be re-appointed.
The Board to be responsible for identifying and nominating has considered and agrees with this recommendation and is candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board therefore recommending to Shareholders that they re-appoint vacancies as and when they arise: and Tim Bristow and Lewis Moonie as Directors at the 2010 AGM.
to make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the Terms of appointment retirement by rotation provisions in the Articles.
The letters of appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors do not specify a fixed term of appointment.
The Board has Business during the year resolved, however, that if any Non-Executive Director remains in During 2009 the Nominations Committee met three times to office for a period of six years, having satisfied annual performance deal with the following business: evaluations and been re-appointed by Shareholders at an AGM March: at least twice, then that Non-Executive Directors re-appointment Consider the appointment of a Non-Executive Director will be subject to a rigorous review by the Nominations Committee nominated by certain Principal Shareholders see below and the Board, both bodies taking into account the need to maintain an active and progressive Board.
The Board does not Agree the recommendation for the re-appointment of expect that any Non-Executive Director will serve for a period certain Directors at the 2009 AGM greater than nine years.
Review the Committees work in 2008 and its terms of reference The Code recommends that notice or contract periods for Directors should be set at one year or less.
As disclosed in the October: Review the succession plans for Directors and senior Remuneration Report on pages 102 to 115 the notice periods for all the Directors comply with this recommendation.
managers December: The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors and Approve the recruitment of a further independent the service agreements for the Executive Directors will be available Non-Executive Director see below for inspection 30 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
During 2009 one new Director was appointed, Rami Lerner.
Rod Perry As described on page 96: Mr Lerner was nominated by Chairman of the Nominations Committee 4 March 2010
