PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 Ov Over ervi vie ew w Busin Busine es ss s r re ev viie ew w 77 77 Our relationships Go Gov five erna rnan nce ce Customers and F Fiina nancia nciall st stat atemen ement ts s Oth Othe er r in inf for orm mation ation responsible gaming Know your limits.
This is the clear message we Age verifi cation want all of our customers to understand and Protecting children is a clear priority.
As well as adhere to when playing on our sites.
For millions appropriate messaging on our sites and all our around the world, gaming is a source of great advertising, we make extensive use of third-party entertainment and fun.
But, as with many other age verifi cation tools to prevent children from consumable products and services, for a very playing on our real money games.
Whilst the small minority, gaming can cause problems and availability of reliable data sources varies we are committed to doing our part to ensure by territory, we have been testing systems that this is kept to a minimum.
developed by third-party suppliers covering up to 30 countries, helping us to improve our Prevalence studies conducted in several screening process further.
countries in recent years show that the incidence of problem gambling is low, typically less than We are already using the very best technology 1%.
However, what is clear is that this remains available in this area and are looking to expand an extremely complex issue, one that is fraught this, drawing upon that provided by suppliers with diffi culties such as co-morbidity with other such as GB Group, Aristotle and 192. com and behavioural patterns and circumstances will continue to test and hopefully employ other including fi financial diffi culty as well as other solutions as more accurate and sophisticated addictions.
child protection and know-your-customer technology is developed.
Whether gambling is a cause or a symptom of some of these problems remains unknown.
Whilst we acknowledge no system As a result, in addition to improving societys can be guaranteed as being 100% secure, understanding of prevalence, as an industry we continue to strive to achieve this goal.
we also need more behavioural studies so that we can gain a much better understanding of gambling behaviour, its pathology and routes that we can take to help those who are suff ering.
Only then can we create better policies to prevent, educate and treat individuals with regard to problem gambling-related issues.
As a responsible gaming company, our objectives are to prevent underage gambling, protect the vulnerable and keep out crime.
Our philosophy is that prevention is better than cure and this is core to our approach to responsible gaming.
This isnt just about doing the right thing, it also Be responsible makes good business sense by reducing fraud We encourage our customers to play within their means using our responsible gaming tools such as deposit limits, and preserving our reputation as a responsible self-exclusion tools and session timers.
operator, instilling trust and confi dence in both our retail and corporate customers.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 78 Our relationships Customers and responsible gaming Responsible gaming We know that even with such tools in place, Responsibility is not just about customer ID and there will be a small percentage of customers child protection.
When it comes to responsible that refuse to use them and or refuse to gaming, this presents a diff erent set of challenges recognise the fact that they may have a for the Group.
This is especially true at the far end of behaviour might constitute problem gambling the spectrum where pathological disorders may is extremely diffi cult, if not impossible.
Whilst we cause irrational gambling behaviour and these can see how a player behaves on our sites, we remain the subject of medical research.
do not know about their personal circumstances, While the percentage of players with such their lifestyle or income, all of which are important problems is very small and the fact that the vast for identifying problem gambling.
Even aft er majority of our customers adopt a sensible years of research into the subject, the leading approach to gaming on our sites, complacency academics in this fi eld cannot agree on a single is not on our agenda: we remain committed to defi nition of what a problem gambler is.
Faced advising and helping customers to know and with this challenge, our approach is to encourage play within their limits.
To try and increase our players to take control of their own gaming understanding of customer behaviour, we are experience through the use of a series of considering advanced analytical methods responsible gaming tools that are available that have been developed by FutureSpace, on all our sites.
a company associated with the PhD statistical These include session timers, so players know how department of Cambridge University in the UK.
long they have been playing, as well as tools to Fair play help them assess whether they may be gambling As well as conducting extensive internal testing of too much and if so, who they can talk to in order all of our games before launch, we also engage to get expert help.
We encourage players to set approved testing houses on a regular basis to deposit limits when they fi first join one of our sites, ensure that our games are fair and that statistical again to take control of their spending behaviour.
outcomes are as expected, in-line with game We also have an automated self-exclusion rules.
We also monitor playing behaviour, and account closure system so that players can protecting players from anyone seeking to choose to take a break by using an easy-to-use gain an unfair advantage by cheating or in online calendar.
With all of these tools, once a contravention of our terms and conditions.
limit has been set by a customer it cannot then be countermanded no really does mean no.
7 4 2 1 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 79 Governance Financial statements Other information Customer security and crime prevention Managing responsibility The concept of responsible gaming also extends Once developed and approved by senior to preventing crime and ensuring our systems and management and the Ethics Committee, payments remain secure.
With representation on responsible gaming policies and procedures the Gaming Committee of the International are then permeated through the rest of the Money Laundering Prevention Offi cers, Antiorganisation.
All of our employees are required Money Laundering Europe, the Remote Casino to take regular online training for responsible Working Group of the Financial Action Task Force, gaming issues using a programme developed and the Remote Gambling Associations RGA with GamCare, which also certifi es annually Anti-Crime, Regulatory, International and Social that we do what we say when it comes to Responsibility forums, the Group takes the issue responsible gaming.
Responsibility is a feature of tackling crime very seriously.
of all of our business activities ranging from soft ware development and game design, right In 2009 we continued our eff orts, working with through to the marketing of those games and the RGA and the European Gaming and Betting customer service.
Association EGBA to promote an independent Criminology and Financial Crime study to address In designing games and features, we aim to concerns that the online gaming industry is ensure that they do not incorporate items that particularly exposed to fi financial crime.
research indicates may encourage uncontrolled gaming by customers.
Our marketing staff In recognition of the fact that PartyGaming is undertake responsible gaming training on a at the vanguard of the eff ort to fi ght cybercrime, regular basis.
This is in addition to ensuring that we have been invited to sit on a cross-industry our advertising complies with local laws and also panel of eCommerce experts, along with with the Advertising Code developed by the representatives from Google, Microsoft and AOL, British Advertising Standards Agency.
Our Know to advance UK policy on internet security.
Your Limits campaign is reinforced by our voluntary The commercial benefi ts from such an approach promotion of www.
co. uk that to responsible gaming are evidenced by our appears on all of our UK advertising.
recent success in winning signifi cant B2B contracts.
Under the spotlight Our random number generator is checked every day by iTech Labs, a certifi ed independent testing laboratory.
9 5 PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 80 80 Our relationships Customers and responsible gaming Whilst we have invested heavily in seeking to PartyGamings role prevent customers from developing gamblingWhile the ultimate responsibility for gaming related problems, we recognise that some will slip behaviour rests with the individual, we want to through the net.
In an eff ort to try and help those ensure that gambling does not assume too large that do, we subscribe to the Gambling Therapy a role in his or her life.
We recognise that as one Service that helps players to obtain information of the worlds leading online gaming companies about responsible gaming and to seek that is also a member of the FTSE4Good Index counselling, if required, using an online service Series of Companies, we have an important role that is off ered in more than 20 languages.
to play in leading the industry in this important area it is one we are proud to accept.
Raising standards We participate in several international associations and councils that seek to promote w responsible gaming issues.
In addition to being a GoodCorporations fi findings member of the two main industry associations: Regulators rate PartyGaming highly.
However, EGBA and the RGA, we also have close relations regulators also are increasingly interested in the with eCOGRA, a non-profi t organisation that issue of intervention and improving the oversees fair gaming, player protection and identifi cation of players who may have problems responsible operator conduct.
an area where the Group can improve.
As the Group increases its government-related business, there may be benefi ts from formalising its government-related activity.
In relation to affi liates, a stronger selection process could be benefi cial as could greater communication of responsible gaming practices.
PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 Ov Over ervi vie ew w Busin Busine es ss s r re ev viie ew w 81 81 Our relationships Go Gov five erna rnan nce ce Employees F Fiina nancia nciall st stat atemen ement ts s Oth Othe er r in inf for orm mation ation For any company, the skills, motivation and b energy of its workforce are key drivers for success.
Vital statistics However, for a business like ours, that has few 2009 2008 physical assets, the culture and drive of the organisation is critical if the true value of our Headcount 1,301 1,191 intellectual property, brands and customer base Male:female 66:34 69:31 are to be maximised.
Nationalities 34 26 Our organisational structure ensures that all of our Voluntary staff turnover 11% 21% staff are fully aware of the aims and objectives Grievances 12 19 of the business and are clear upon how their role Redundancies 83 114 will help us to achieve them.
Although we are Working hours lost to sickness 1.7% 1.4% a relatively young company in a young industry, 21 redeployed within the Group.
we have evolved our operational structure and 2 redeployed within the Group.
procedures to mirror those found in some of the worlds best companies.
Strategy-cascade We believe that good communication is vital in developing a well-motivated and engaged workforce.
In order to execute our strategy our employees must not only be aware and understand that strategy, they must also commit to it.
We employ a strategy-cascade process which has formalised the manner in which information is disseminated throughout the Group.
Starting at the top, the process begins with regular strategy events involving senior management that review and refi ne both our strategic objectives and the processes we deploy to achieve them.
Once established, there then follows a series of company days in each of the Groups territories where the Executive Directors provide updates to the locally-based employees.
Detailed briefi ngs on each of the individual tactical plans that lie behind the strategy are then held at a team level before being built into the objectives of every On the spot employee as part of their 360 appraisal process.
Our executive team have already responded, to over 200 questions from employees, using our Throughout this process, employees are actively ExecDirect forum m.. encouraged to discuss the details of these plans with their line managers.
Online communication Outside of the strategy-cascade process, we use an array of online tools to regularly engage with staff.
These include: personal email updates from the CEO: PartyPost: the Groups in-house emagazine: and PartyPerformance, a more formal quarterly update, which sets out how the Group is performing against our stated business objectives.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 82 Our relationships Employees These bulletins are backed by the Groups With a well-trained workforce we can exploit new intranet site which provides a one-stop-shop for all systems, soft ware and management tools to of the Groups procedures and other corporate seize new opportunities and guard against information including policies on Whistleblowing, potential threats.
an Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics and In 2009, the Group ran 860 days of training which Anti-Bribery Policy.
Of course, communication were attended by over 2,500 delegates.
This gave is a two-way street, and ExecDirect has been every member of staff the opportunity to access established to provide employees with the a wide range of courses and workshops which opportunity to pose questions anonymously to included everything from IT skills and customer any member of the Groups Executive and be service management, up to our advanced guaranteed an on-the-record answer in an open programme: PartyPathway, which is designed forum.
This has proved extremely popular with to extend the skills of the Groups highest fl iers.
over 200 questions posed and answered since being introduced in May 2008.
In addition to our classroom-based learning, employees are required to complete online Rewards and incentives training and testing to ensure that we achieve Our people are self-motivated, dynamic the very highest levels of regulatory compliance.
individuals who understand what is needed Based on rolling fi gures to take into account for the business to succeed.
Such characteristics new starters, as at the end of 2009, 98% of all are not nice to haves, they are essential given employees had completed our GamCare the demands of the industry in which we operate.
accredited social responsibility course while It is therefore fundamental that we recruit and 92% of required employees had completed retain the very best talent in order to maintain our anti-money laundering training.
Our high expectations are matched by the potential rewards on off er.
We Organisation seek to correlate closely an individuals overall The Group regularly reviews its organisational remuneration package with their contribution to structure to ensure it has the best balance of the success of the Company, through a mixture personnel and resources to most eff ectively of short-, mediumand long-term incentives.
The challenges These include competitive salaries, an employee faced in 2009 required that we reorganise and share plan and an annual bonus scheme tied to streamline the organisation.
Such fi ne-tuning of the organisation is always This reward process and all of our employee regrettable but necessary for our long-term data is managed through Pi, the Companys success.
Despite such reorganisation, the Group Enterprise Resource Management tool.
Not only has again expanded through both newly does this provide complete transparency for created positions and due to the acquisitions managers and employees on the appraisal of Cashcade and the World Poker Tour.
As at process, it also allows individuals to actively 31 December 2009 we had 1,301 staff, up from participate in their own objective-setting and 1,191 a year earlier.
assessment, as well as identifying areas for further training and development.
w Skills and training GoodCorporations fi findings We place a premium on having a highly-skilled Overall a strong performance.
In a technology-based business such to do in terms of management culture and as ours, employees must have the skills to carry openness in certain locations.
Health & Safety out their current day-to-day responsibilities and can still be strengthened and scope for further be able to develop new ones so they can improvement in the appraisal process, training innovate and drive the business forward.
and clarity of employee bonuses.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 83 Our relationships Governance Suppliers Financial statements Other information The supply chain, a fundamental but complex By encouraging suppliers to adopt similar and logistically driven part of our business, is principles of responsibility and high standards to overseen by a procurement team that adheres our own is benefi cial in many respects, not least rigidly to set policies and procedures that are of which is the standing and preservation of our designed to alleviate exposure to risks, foster corporate reputation.
Having established high long-term business alliances and ultimately play standards for our own supply chain we have a role in our success.
been able to embed similar principles into our own supply agreements as part of our B2B As well as managing all of our employee data, agreements with companies like INTRALOT, our Enterprise Resource Planning system also Fueps and Channel Five.
governs each stage of the supply chain.
We have a preferred list of signifi cant suppliers covering a Excluding more than 7,000 unique active suppliers wide-range of goods and services.
New suppliers that constitute our affi liate network, we used have to undergo a competitive tender process more than 450 suppliers for a wide range of and have their fi financial strength, quality control goods and services in 2009, up from around and business ethics assessed.
In terms of fi financial value, our largest supplier provided US$15.8 million of This approach has helped to protect us against goods and services to us.
There were 31 other the recessionary-induced collapse of many companies that were paid over US$1 million companies around the world.
The range of goods and services The most signifi cant change in our supplier list in provided by our key suppliers is very broad, 2009 was the change to using London Capital encompassing broadband and other telephony Group to provide the trading platform for services, creative design, computer hardware PartyMarkets and ultimately the launch of and soft ware, advertising, marketing agencies, the InterTrader spread betting service in early affi liates, media buyers, recycling, travel 2010.
Only one of our suppliers, a small courier agents and the designers and printers of this business, unfortunately succumbed to the Annual Report.
recession in 2009. w GoodCorporations fi findings Supplier controls are now working much better.
Further work could be done to reinforce policies and extend responsible practices and controls to legacy suppliers.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 84 Our relationships Environment and community The nature of our business means we are a low Our London and Gibraltar offi ces achieved impact company when compared with many recertifi cation for the international standards other corporations.
That said, we are focused on in Health and Safety OHSAS 18001 and extending our commitment to act responsibly Environmental Management Systems ISO 14001. beyond our daily business activities.
This includes These standards help us monitor and improve our looking to minimise our impact on the environmental performance, which includes environment whilst also putting something back recycling a broad range of materials wherever into the communities where we have offi ces.
practicable and by encouraging employees to save paper by printing documents double-sided PartyGaming has a small carbon footprint but or preferably not at all.
we still seek to reduce consumption of utilities, materials and travel by employees.
Measures As well as a commitment to help reduce waste undertaken in our offi ces include switching off and greenhouse gases, we also seek to continue air-conditioning outside of normal offi ce hours, making a philanthropic contribution to the using energy effi cient light sources and ensuring communities where we have operations.
computer and electrical equipment is switched We support worthy causes both fi nancially off when not in use.
and through pro bono activities by our staff.
Besides looking to reduce energy consumption in our offi ces, we have continued to tighten the reins on employee travel.
All travel by air or rail is recorded and has to be approved by executive management.
Greater use of video conferencing facilities between offi ces not only lessens the environmental impact caused by our business but also reduces our fi financial costs.
We do not have a company car scheme and staff use public transport whenever possible.
Key helpers More than one-third of our employees spent time helping others in 2009 on a wide range of pro bono activities in local communities.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review 85 Governance Financial statements Other information The Groups philosophy on putting something Our overall target is that 70% of our charity back into the community has been fully contributions are directed towards responsible embraced by our staff.
Following the roll out gambling causes.
The balance is donated to of a group-wide scheme in 2008, 39% other worthy causes as well as to support our of our workforce participated in pro bono pro bono activities.
Our belief is that by enabling and encouraging our employees to spend w between 48 hours of Company time on charitable, community or environmental GoodCorporations fi findings projects, they can enhance their personal Community projects and support is excellent, development whilst returning something to placing the Company well ahead of its peers.
The pro bono activities we undertook in 2009 are too many to mention but included supporting the homeless in east London, a womens refuge in Gibraltar, orphans in Sofi a, childrens hostels in Tel Aviv and centres for the elderly in Hyderabad.
As well as contributing time and eff ort through pro bono activities, the Group also allocates between 0.20% and 0.25% of the prior years Clean EBITDA towards worthy causes.
We donated close to US$300,000 direct to charities in 2009.
Some 64% of this total went to organisations associated with problem gambling including the Gambling Research, Education and Treatment Foundation in the UK: Gambling Therapy Services, an industry-wide project to provide counselling services in 22 diff erent languages for problem gamblers and: Adictel, a similar organisation in France.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 86 Our relationships Shareholders and other providers of capital PartyGaming will mark its fi ft h anniversary as a It was pleasing that our continued eff orts in this listed company on the London Stock Exchanges important area were again recognised in 2009.
Main Market on 30 June 2010, during which time At the inaugural ICSA Hermes Transparency we have built strong and lasting relationships with in Governance Awards that took place in many investors and other providers of capital.
November 2009, we won top honours for Best Practice in two categories for FTSE 250 Our approach to building and sustaining these companies Stakeholder Engagement and relationships has been based upon a principle of Disclosure on Strategy.
The ICSA awards are open access to our senior management team backed by the UK Government, The Financial and a high level of transparency, especially with Reporting Council, the Association of British regards to fi financial disclosure.
Insurers, the Confederation of British Industry We aim to set a high standard in fi financial and The Financial Times newspaper.
reporting, particularly through our half-year and Our 2008 Annual Report also won two further full-year fi financial results as well as our quarterly awards.
We were chosen as having produced Key Performance Indicators that help to keep the Best Annual Report for quoted and unquoted analysts and investors abreast of our trading companies at the 2009 CorpComms Awards performance and key operational developments.
and we also won the Accountancy Age award Besides these updates and the information for Annual Report of the Year with the judges contained on our corporate website and in other commending, in particular, the communication published documents, we have established a of our measurement of corporate social regular communication programme of  issues.
Whilst it is always pleasing face meetings, webcasts, conferences and to be rewarded in this way, we are not conference calls with shareholders, investors and complacent and continue to strive to improve other stakeholders to ensure that they are kept our communications further in 2010. fully up to speed on our latest developments.
This is complemented by analyst research from several leading fi financial institutions including Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Numis Securities, each of which contribute to an independent analysis of all market forecasts for the Group.
A summary of this analysis is regularly updated and made available on the Groups website at www.
Again, we retain strong relationships with all of the analysts that follow Awards us and through regular meetings as well as We won two awards at the prestigious ICSA Hermes salesforce briefi ngs, we aim to provide clarity Transparency in Governance Awards.
regarding our fi financial performance and strategy.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance 87 Financial statements Other information Governance Seeing the bigger picture Our organisational structure, procedures and controls ensure the Board maintains a clear view of all aspects of our business.
