22 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Compliance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take The Company is committed to high standards of independent professional advice if necessary and at corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on access that every Director has to the advice and page 26, indicates how the Company has applied the services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is principles of good governance of the Financial responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable Reporting Council Combined Code the Combined rules and regulations are complied with and that Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, Board procedures are followed.
the AIC Code, which complements the Combined Board Composition Code and provides a framework of best practice for The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, all investment trusts.
of whom are regarded by the Board as independent, The Board is responsible for ensuring the including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth appropriate level of Corporate Governance and of investment, business and financial skills and considers that the Company has complied with the experience relevant to the Companys business and best practice provisions of the Combined Code, other brief biographical details of each Director are set out than in respect of the provision relating to the on page 16. appointment of a senior independent director, and A review of Board composition and balance is the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
included as part of the annual performance Role of the Board evaluation of the Board.
The Board has considered A management agreement between the Company whether a senior independent director should be and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the appointed and has concluded that, as the Board Manager has authority.
This includes management consists entirely of non-executive directors, this is of the Companys assets and the provision of unnecessary.
accounting, company secretarial, administration, Tenure and some marketing services.
The Company Directors are initially appointed until the following delegates responsibility for voting investee shares Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys to JPMAM.
Details of JPMAMs Voting Policy and Articles of Association, it is required that they be Corporate Governance Guidelines are available from elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors JPMAM on request or can be accessed at appointment will run for a term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out Within the Commentary & Analysis tab there is a each year, the Board will agree whether it is section on Corporate Governance.
appropriate for the Director to seek an additional All other matters are reserved for the approval of the term.
Any Director who has served for a period of Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the more than nine years will submit himself for annual Board for decision has been approved.
determination and monitoring of the Companys The terms and conditions of Directors appointments investment objectives and policy and its future are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies strategic direction, gearing policy, management of of which are available for inspection on request at the capital structure, appointment and removal of the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
third party service providers, review of key investment and financial data and the Companys The Board recommends the re-election of Hamish corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
Leslie Melville, who retires by rotation at this years The Board has procedures in place to deal with AGM.
potential conflicts of interest and confirms that the Meetings and Committees procedures have operated effectively during the year The Board delegates certain responsibilities and under review.
Details of membership of The Board meets at least quarterly during the year committees are shown with the Directors profiles on and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Directors who are not members of Full and timely information is provided to the Board Committees may attend at the invitation of the to enable it to function effectively and to allow Chairman.
Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 In line with corporate governance guidance, the Audit Committee Chairman decided to stand down from the Audit The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists Committee with effect from 19th March 2008. of all the Directors other than the Chairman from 19th March 2008 and meets at least twice each year.
The table below details the number of Board, Audit The members of the Committee consider that they Committee and Nomination Committee meetings have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the attended by each Director.
During the year there responsibilities of the Committee.
were seven Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Manager in relation to the half year and Audit Nomination annual accounts and the Companys compliance with Board Committee Committee the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the Meetings Meetings Meetings management agreement and examines the Director Attended Attended Attended effectiveness of the Companys internal control Hamish Leslie Melville 6 2 0 systems, receives information from the Managers Lord Halifax 6 2 1 Compliance department and reviews the scope and Richard Hambro 6 2 1 results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness, Sandy Nairn 6 2 1 the balance of audit and non-audit services, and the Charles Peel 7 2 1 independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In order to safeguard the Auditors Ian Russell 7 2 1 objectivity and independence, any significant attended by invitation non-audit services are carried out through a partner Training and Appraisal other than the audit engagement partner.
On appointment, the Manager and Company Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the Secretary provide all Directors with induction Committee meeting at which the draft annual report training.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided on and accounts are considered.
The Directors changes in regulatory requirements that affect the statement on the Companys system of internal Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to control is set out on page 24. attend industry and other seminars covering issues Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Committee have written terms of reference which The Board has undertaken an evaluation of the define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies Manager, its own performance and that of its of which are available for inspection on request at committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation the Companys registered office and at the of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and Companys AGM.
another Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole Relations with Shareholders evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of its committees.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and Board Committees performance and reports formally to shareholders Nomination Committee four times a year by way of the Annual Report and The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Accounts, Half Year Financial Report and two Interim Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at Management Statements.
This is supplemented by least annually to ensure that the Board has an the daily publication, through the London Stock appropriate balance of skills to carry out its fiduciary Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys duties and to select and propose suitable candidates shares.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are The Committee undertakes an annual performance encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all Meeting at which the Directors and representatives members of the Board have devoted sufficient time of the Manager are available in person to meet with and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
In addition, a The Committee also reviews Directors fees and presentation is given by the Investment Managers makes recommendations to the Board as and when who review the Companys performance.
24 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance continued year the Companys brokers and the Investment This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The Managers hold regular discussions with larger key elements designed to provide effective internal shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware control are as follows: of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive themselves available as and when required to review by the Board of key investment and financial address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be data, including management accounts, revenue contacted through the Company Secretary whose projections, analysis of transactions and performance details are shown on page 48. comparisons.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is Management Agreement Appointment of a manager published in time to give shareholders at least and custodian regulated by the Financial Services 20 working days notice of the Annual General Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in defined in a written agreement.
advance of the meeting are encouraged to write to Management Systems The Managers system of the Company Secretary at the address shown on internal control includes organisational agreements page 48 or via the website.
which clearly define the lines of responsibility, Details of the proxy voting position on each delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
resolution will be published on the Companys These are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance website shortly after the Annual General Meeting.
department which regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Internal Control The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of annually, to review the effectiveness of the the Companys investment strategy and exposure Companys system of internal control and to report limits by the Board.
to shareholders that they have done so.
This The Board, either directly or through the Audit encompasses a review of all controls, which the Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of Board has identified as including business, financial, the Companys system of internal control by operational, compliance and risk management.
monitoring the operation of the key operating The Directors are responsible for the Companys controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: system of internal control which is designed to reviews the terms of the management agreement safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper and receives regular reports from JPMAMs accounting records and ensure that financial Compliance department: information used within the business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be reviews reports on the internal controls and the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, failure to achieve business objectives and therefore which is itself independently reviewed: and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, the Directors review on a regular basis an assurance against fraud, material mis-statement or independent report on the internal controls and loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and By the means of the procedures set out above, the all administrative services are provided to the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness Company by JPMAM and its associates, the of the Companys system of internal control for the Companys system of internal control mainly consists year ended 31st January 2009, and to the date of of monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
its associates, including the operating controls During the course of its review of the system of established by them, to ensure they meet the internal control, the Board has not identified nor Companys business objectives.
The Company does been advised of any failings or weaknesses which not have an internal audit function of its own, but it has determined to be significant.
relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
