46 Corporate governance report Our Board is committed to maintaining high standards The Board held nine scheduled meetings during 2008 09. of corporate governance, responsibility and risk In addition, other meetings were held at short notice to consider management.
matters which could not be held over until the next scheduled Board meeting.
Details of Directors attendance at scheduled Our key policies and practices are set out in this governance Board and Committee meetings are shown in the table below.
report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on page 49 and Remuneration Committee on pages 50 to 59.
Role of the Board Furthermore, our independent Non-executive Directors prepare The Board of Cable & Wireless sets the strategic aims of the a report describing the corporate governance and behaviours Group and is collectively responsible for matters of strategy, of the Board on page 48.
Together these reports provide performance, resources, standards of conduct and shareholders with an insight into how our Board and senior accountability.
management run the business to increase shareholder value.
Matters reserved for the Board include: Group strategy: Board composition and attendance corporate governance: financial reporting and control: budgets At 31 March 2009 our Board comprised the Chairman, four and operating plans: acquisitions and disposals: appointments Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors, including to the Board, Committees and some senior executive positions: the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies of the continuing Director and senior executive remuneration: delegation of Directors, including details of their committee memberships, authority: and customer contracts and expenditure over are shown on pages 40 to 41. a certain financial limit.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Committees, each with clearly defined terms Throughout the year, the majority of the Board were Nonof reference.
executive Directors, all of whom the Board consider to be independent in character and judgement.
Collectively, our NonFull details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms of executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and business reference of its Committees can be found on our website at experience to Cable & Wireless and their contribution to Board www.
decision-making is a considerable factor in achieving our The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary and strategic aims.
Executive Directors, sets the agenda for Board meetings and full The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three and timely information is provided to all Board and Committee year term with an expectation that they will continue for a members prior to meetings.
Formal minutes recording decisions further three year term.
Kasper Rorsted will complete his second of all Board and Committee meetings are prepared and three year term on 23 May 2009.
After a review of his role and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
If a Director objects contribution to the Board, the Chairman has invited him to to a particular proposal, this is recorded in the minutes of the continue with his appointment for a further period of 12 months, relevant meeting.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, in accordance with his letter of appointment.
as for previous years, there were no such objections.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive Cable & Wireless continues to be organised as two separate Directors, together with service contracts for Executive businesses CWI formerly International and Worldwide Directors, are available for inspection by shareholders at our formerly Europe, Asia & US each with their own Operating registered office during normal business hours and at our AGM.
Board that meets monthly and focuses on the issues relevant to that business.
Board meeting attendance John Pluthero, as Executive Chairman of Worldwide, has overall Audit Remuneration Nominations responsibility for the day-to-day management of this business.
Board Committee Committee Committee John and Jim Marsh, Worldwides Chief Executive, are Chairman members of the Worldwide Operating Board along with other Richard Lapthorne 9 9 4 4 senior members of the Worldwide executive team and four Executive Directors Investor Directors appointed by the Board.
1 George Battersby 6 9 John Pluthero was also responsible for the day-to-day 2 Tim Pennington 4 4 management of CWI until November 2008 when Tony Rice John Pluthero 9 9 was appointed as Chief Executive, reporting to Richard Tony Rice 9 9 Lapthorne.
Tim Pennington joined CWI as its Chief Financial Non-executive Directors Officer on 23 September 2008 and he continues in this role Simon Ball 8 9 3 5 5 6 in addition to his appointment as Group Finance Director from 3 John Barton 1 1 0 1 1 1 11 November 2008.
Richard, Tony and Tim are all members Clive Butler 9 9 5 5 6 6 4 4 of the CWI Operating Board along with other members of the Kate Nealon 9 9 5 5 6 6 4 4 CWI executive team and two Investor Directors appointed Kasper Rorsted 8 9 5 5 6 6 4 4 by the Board.
Agns Touraine 8 9 4 5 4 6 Director is not a Committee member.
1 George Battersby was unable to attend three meetings due to illness.
2 Tim Pennington was appointed on 11 November 2008.
3 John Barton was appointed on 9 March 2009.
47 Separate schedules of reserved matters have been adopted by Performance Evaluation both Operating Boards and the Board may also delegate power As in the previous year, the Chairman led an in-house to the Investor Directors to grant approval on any matter performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees otherwise reserved for the Board.
in the form of a detailed questionnaire.
The findings were collated by the Company Secretary and presented to the The Senior Independent Director Board for consideration.
Clive Butler was appointed Senior Independent Director in June 2006.
The Senior Independent Director is available to During the year, the Non-executive Directors again met meet shareholders on request and is the designated point of privately, both with and without the Chairman being present, contact for shareholders to raise any concerns which contact to consider management performance and succession issues.
through the normal channels of the Chairman or Executive The Non-executive Directors also appraised the Chairmans Directors has failed to resolve or for which contact is performance and carefully reviewed the relationship between inappropriate.
the Chairman and the Executive Directors to ensure that the Board structure and relationships continued to promote the As part of our ongoing commitment to regular dialogue with creation of shareholder value.
our investors, the Senior Independent Director, along with the Chairman, attended several meetings with investment Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate managers during the year.
Additionally, in April 2008 Governance the Code the Company invited a number of institutional investors to Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009, we complied a roundtable meeting with the Senior Independent Director, with all provisions set out in Section One of the Code.
the Chairman and other Executive and Non-executive Directors By order of the Board to review Cable & Wireless corporate governance structures.
Nick Cooper Committees of the Board Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is 20 May 2009 entirely composed of Non-executive Directors.
The reports of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 49 and 50 to 59 respectively.
The Nominations Committee, chaired by Clive Butler Senior Independent Director, met on four occasions during the year to review the composition of the Board, including the range and experience of its members, its structure and its size.
Formal procedures are in place for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of Directors as well as succession planning.
In accordance with these procedures, and with the advice of external recruitment consultants, the following changes to the Board were made at the recommendation of the Nominations Committee: Tim Pennington was appointed as an Executive Director on 11 November 2008: and John Barton was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 9 March 2009.
The induction of new Board members is undertaken by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who retains responsibility for the induction process.
It includes meetings with senior management of both CWI and Worldwide.
Meetings with major shareholders may be arranged on request.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as well as appropriate training and briefings.
Additionally, any Director may take independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
