49 Report of the Audit Committee This report sets out the membership, purposes and Disclosure Committee activities of the Audit Committee during the year.
To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection Membership and terms of reference with the preparation of all market releases containing material The members of the Audit Committee the Committee during financial information has been delegated to a Disclosure the year consisted solely of the Non-executive Directors: Kasper Committee.
This Committee comprises senior management Rorsted Committee Chairman, Simon Ball, John Barton from from Group finance, legal and external affairs.
9 March 2009, Clive Butler, Kate Nealon and Agns Touraine.
During the preparation of the Annual Report, the Disclosure The Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to the Head of Internal Audit are also invited to attend all Committee documents review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
In May and November when the full year and half year results are considered, the Chairman and Executive Directors Internal audit are invited to attend.
The Internal Audit function, led by the Head of Internal Audit, is supported by a team of auditors based in the UK and Jamaica.
During the year, the Committee undertook a review of its objectives The function has a formal charter approved by the Board that and terms of reference.
Following that review, the Committees describes its purpose, authority and responsibility.
Its audit plan objectives were confirmed as: assisting the Board in meeting its is approved by the Audit Committee annually.
responsibilities to create an effective system of internal control and compliance: providing accurate external financial reporting: External audit overseeing, reviewing and monitoring managements conduct: KPMG Audit Plc KPMG has acted as auditor since 1991.
The and reporting of effective risk management.
The Committees Committee evaluates KPMG's tenure annually and is not restricted full terms of reference are published on our website by any contractual obligations in its choice of auditors.
Board has accepted the Committee's recommendation that KPMG should be reappointed for 2009 10.
This recommendation The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the was based on a detailed review of the 2007 08 audit which Audit Committee has recent and relevant experience and is demonstrated overall satisfaction with the performance of confident that the collective experience of the members enables KPMG as external auditor.
The review included a survey of Audit them to act as an effective Audit Committee.
Committee members and key personnel involved in the audit, Meetings discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit, The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during the as well as an analysis of KPMGs capabilities and independence.
An additional meeting was held in The audit engagement partner responsible for the 2008 09 April 2008 to consider any issues which arose during the audit was assigned in 2005 06.
A new audit engagement course of the 2007 08 full year audit.
partner was assigned on 1 April 2009 and will be responsible The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee for the engagement in future.
Chairman in conjunction with the Group Finance Director, Group The Committee has established a policy to maintain the Financial Controller and the external auditor.
At each scheduled independence of the external auditor and its personnel, meeting the Committee receives reports from the Group governing the provision of audit and non-audit services Finance Director, the external auditor and the Head of Internal provided by the auditor and its associates.
The policy clearly Audit together with biannual litigation reports from the Group identifies permitted and prohibited services and sets out the General Counsel.
In addition, during the year ended 31 March procedure to be followed for the approval of all audit and non- 2009 the Committee considered the business set out below, audit services.
All engagements with an expected fee in excess making recommendations to the Board where appropriate: of 250,000 require the prior approval of the Chairman of the Preliminary results and press release for the year ended Audit Committee.
31 March 2008: the 2007 08 Annual Report together with For the year ended 31 March 2009 the Committee approved the Directors statement on compliance with Turnbull fees for audit services of 3.8 million together with fees for guidance on internal controls and risk management: audit-related regulatory reporting of 0.4 million and non-audit Interim results and press release for the six months ended work of 5.1 million.
The nature of the services provided is set 30 September 2008: out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
There is Review of risk management within Worldwide, CWI and the no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as Central function: auditor to the Company.
Disaster recovery procedures for the Caribbean operation: Review of the Groups insurance cover: Kasper Rorsted Review of the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: Chairman, Audit Committee Self-evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee: 20 May 2009 Review of the Groups accounting and tax policies: and Review of key corporate governance developments.
