Statement of Corporate Governance Companies Act requirements, such as the approval of the Introduction half-yearly and annual Financial Statements, and approval The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to and recommendation of the interim and final dividends describe how they have complied with the principles of the respectively Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June setting the range of gearing in which the Manager may 2008, which is available on the Financial Reporting Council's operate website: www.
"The Association of Investment major changes relating to the Company's structure, Companies AIC also published a Code of Corporate including share buy-backs and share issues Governance for Investment Trusts ""AIC Code"" which is Board appointments and removals and the related terms available on the AlC's website: www."
The AIC appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms Code, which was updated in February 2009, forms a and conditions of the management and administration comprehensive guide to best practice in certain areas of agreements relating thereto governance where the specific characteristics of investment terms of reference and membership of Board Committees trusts suggest alternative approaches to those set out in the Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Combined Code that may be preferable.
There is a certain Authority - approval of all circulars and listing particulars, amount of overlap with the Combined Code, although the and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by focus of attention is on the points of difference.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors.
governance and has put in place a framework for corporate The names and biographies of those Directors who held governance, which it believes is appropriate for an office at the date of this Annual Report appear on pages 22 investment trust.
and 23 of this Annual Report, and indicate their range of investment, industrial, commercial and professional Application of the Principles of the Codes experience.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance, and this Statement describes how the The Board has assessed the independence of the Directors principles identified in the Combined Code and the AIC Code against the criteria set out in the Codes, and has concluded have been applied by the Company throughout the year to that they are all independent of the investment manager 30 June 2009, except where disclosed below.
"""Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited"" or the ""Manager"", and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of Board to report on compliance with the Combined Code strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct."
In instances where the Combined Code and the AIC Code differ, an explanation will Ms Glen was, until January 2009, a partner of a law firm be given as to which Code has been applied, and the reason which has undertaken occasional work for companies within for that decision.
In January 2009, Ms Glen ceased to be a partner of that firm.
Accordingly, while Ms Glen does not Save as described below, no exceptions to compliance with meet the tests of independence set out in the AIC Code, the the Combined Code were identified.
Board takes the view that, in performing the role of Director, Ms Glen has displayed independence from the Manager.
The Board Mr Coats will, by the Annual General Meeting at which he is The Board sets the Company's values and objectives, and retiring from the Board, have served as a Director for more ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
The Board takes the view that independence formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to is not compromised by length of service on the Board, and be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains that experience can add significantly to the Board's strength, full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, and, therefore considers Mr Coats to be fully independent.
Mr Gifford will, by the Annual General Meeting, have served These matters include: as a Director for more than nine years.
The Combined Code the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk states that, following appointment, the test of independence management policies is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the the monitoring of the business activities of the Company AIC Code states that the test of independence continues to ranging from analysis of investment performance to annual be appropriate and, consequently, the Board will follow the budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis AIC Code.
For the reasons stated above in relation to Mr 30 Murray Income Trust PLC Coats, the Board is also satisfied that Mr Gifford, as During the year ended 30 June 2009, the Board met five times.
Details of attendance by each of the Directors and Chairman, continues to have the appropriate experience, Committee members at Board and Committee meetings are knowledge and independence to remain in this role.
recommended by the Combined Code, Mr Gifford will stand for annual re-election.
Between meetings, the Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is The election of Mr Woods, and the re-election of Mr Gifford, the review of investment performance and associated whose biographies appear on pages 22 and 23, were matters, including gearing asset allocation, marketing and considered and approved by the Nomination Committee.
The investor relations, peer group information and industry reasons for the Committee's recommendations for their issues.
election or re-election, as the case may be, and the subsequent approval of those recommendations by the In order to enable the Board to function effectively and allow Board, are set out below: Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely Mr Woods was appointed a Director on 15 December 2008. access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of A qualified actuary and previously Group Managing Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of Director of The Scottish Provident Group, his extensive papers, including the Manager's review and discussion experience in the life insurance and investment industries documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made considerably enhances the combined experience of the further enquiries where necessary.
Mr Gifford, who has been a Director since July 1999, was There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take previously a director of Robert Fleming Holdings.
His independent professional advice, if necessary, at the experience in investment matters is greatly valued by his Company's expense.
The Directors have access to the advice fellow Directors.
He was appointed Chairman of the and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its Company on 27 June 2004. appointed representatives, who are responsible to the Board: for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good must offer themselves for re-election at least once every information flows with the Board and its committees, as three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking re well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional election at this time, it has been less than three years since development as required their previous re-election.
In accordance with both Codes, for advising through the Chairman on all corporate Directors who have served for more than nine years will be governance matters.
required to offer themselves annually for re-election.
When a Director is appointed, an induction process is The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
This involves induction meetings Mr Coats has been appointed Senior Independent Director.
which cover details about the Company, its Manager, legal Mr Coats will not be seeking re-election as a Director at the responsibilities and investment trust industry matters.
forthcoming AGM, and will be succeeded as Senior Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key Independent Director by Mr van der Klugt.
information on the Company's policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes Audit, Management affecting Directors' responsibilities are advised to the Board Nomination Engagement as they arise.
Directors have also taken part in various and Committee training specific to non-executive Directors, including Remuneration Meetings training courses run by the AlC and the Manager.
Board Committee Attended Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended At the September Board meeting, a formal process was introduced for the consideration and authorisation by the P A F Gifford 5 5 6 6 1 1 Board of Directors' reported actual and potential conflicts of A J M Coats 4 5 6 6 1 1 interest, a full analysis of the Directors' appointments and M Glen 5 5 6 6 1 1 interests having been considered at that meeting.
In N A Honebon 5 5 6 6 1 1 accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and H van der Klugt 5 5 6 6 1 1 relevant legislation, each Director abstains from approval of 3 3 3 3 1 1 D E Woodst their own position.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interests on a regular basis.
each of the three Committees met twice during the year, The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual t from the date of Mr Woods' appointment as a Director, on performance evaluation, using questionnaires and discussion, 15 December 2008.
Murray Income Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time Audit Committee and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and An Audit Committee has been established with written terms Committees, and to consider each Director's independence.
of reference and, with effect from 8 February 2008, The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors.
comprises all independent Directors it formerly comprised The Board considers that none of his other commitments the full Board including the Company Chairman.
The Board set out on page 22 of this report interfere with the considers it appropriate that the Company Chairman is a discharge of his responsibilities to the Company, and is member of the Audit Committee, although he may not chair satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the it, provided that he is considered by the Board to be Company effectively.
There have been no significant changes independent, as is currently the case.
Mr Coats, a chartered to the Chairman's other commitments during the year.
accountant, is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
On Mr Coats' retirement as a Director at the conclusion of the External Agencies Company's Annual General Meeting, on 27 October 2009, Mr van der Klugt, who is also a chartered accountant, will The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The terms of including the Manager and other service providers, certain reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on services: the management of the investment portfolio: the request and on the Company's website, are reviewed and re custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The assets : the share registration services: and the day-to-day Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP, the Company's accounting and company secretarial functions.
Each of these Auditors, to be independent of the Company, as no noncontracts was entered into after full and proper consideration audit services were carried out by Ernst & Young LLP during by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, in so the year.
far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular The matters considered by the Committee during the year basis.
In addition, ad hoc reports and information are included: supplied to the Board as requested.
the review of the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Companyt o assist in this the Committees Committee received reports from the internal and external Nomination Committee auditors on a regular basis A Nomination Committee has been established with written the review of the half-yearly and annual Financial Reports terms of reference, and comprises the full Board.
The the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the together with their remuneration, as well as the non-audit Company.
services provided by the Auditors if applicable the review of the scope and the results of the audit, its cost The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the the following matters: Auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees it should the identification and nomination of candidates to fill be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the Board vacancies as and when they arise, for the approval of partner responsible for the audit every five years the Board the review of the Auditors' management letter and the plans for succession management response the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the the review of the management agreement conclusion of their specified term of office meetings with representatives of the Manager.
the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Company's Articles Management Engagement Committee of Association As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management the continuation in office of any Director at any time Engagement Committee has been established, comprising the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the Chairman of the Company.
The Committee annually reviews position of Chairman, the recommendation for which matters concerning the investment management agreement would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
in place between the Company and Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of this agreement are shown on In considering the appointment of a new Director, the pages 27 and 28.
Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, age and length of service.
It Remuneration Committee and Directors' Remuneration may use the professional services of a search consultant to Under the UK Listing Authority's Listing Rule 15.6.
6, where identify suitable candidates for review by the Board.
an investment trust has only non-executive directors, the 32 Murray Income Trust PLC Combined Code principles relating to directors' remuneration Those participants who wish to attend the Annual General do not apply.
However, the Company does have a Meeting are able to make arrangements with the Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board, and administrator of the Savings Plan to do so, and to vote on a whose Chairman is Mr van der Klugt.
show of hands and speak at the meeting.
As required under the Combined Code, the Annual Report is The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to posted to shareholders at least twenty business days before attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future the Annual General Meeting.
The Company's policy on Directors' remuneration, together with details of the The Notice of Meeting on pages 59 to 62 sets out the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors' business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained Remuneration Report on pages 36 and 37.
The terms of more fully in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on 36 and 37 and the Directors' Report on pages 24 to 29. request, and on the Company's website.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Directors' Terms of Appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting of three years, subject to re-election and the Companies Act is an event at which all shareholders are encouraged to provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to Association, stand for election at the first Annual General the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of the Company.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put Association state that Directors must offer themselves for re questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of election at least once every three years.
proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show Policy on Tenure of hands, and details will be posted on the Company's The Board's policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve website.
on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board does not consider that the length of service of a Director is Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and free shareholder information telephone service run by the therefore the length of service will be determined on a caseManager and the Company, and the Manager responds to by-case basis.
The Company's website, from which the Company's reports and other publications can be Communication with Shareholders downloaded, is www.
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Manager, Accountability and Audit accompanied occasionally by the Chairman, has an annual The Directors' Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, and Financial Statements is on page 35 and the Statement of reports back to the Board on these meetings.
Going Concern is included in the Directors' Report on page 28.
The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray Income Trust are held in the The Independent Auditors' Report is on page 38. name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided Internal Control with copies of shareholder communications for distribution The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has to their customers.
Nominee investors may make overall responsibility for the Company's system of internal arrangements to attend and speak at general meetings.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying Participants in the Manager's Savings Plan, whose shares are evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are Company, which has been in place for the full year under given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Direction enclosed with the Annual Report.
"The Letter of Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Direction is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Board and accords with the FRC's guidance document Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants ""Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the and forward it to the Company's registrar for inclusion in the Combined Code. """
Murray Income Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of that that have been delegated to external professional internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process organisations.
for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies and procedures by which these The Manager's Head of Internal Audit reports six-monthly to risks are managed.
the Audit Committee of the Company, and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Company's assets to the Manager within overall The internal control systems are designed to meet the guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system Company's particular needs and the risks to which it is of internal control, including financial, operational and exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit to achieve business goals and, by their nature, can provide function which undertakes periodic examination of business reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material processes, including compliance with the terms of the misstatement or loss.
management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function, and has decided that the systems and procedures Risks are identified and documented through a risk employed by the Manager, including its internal audit management framework by each function within the function and the work carried out by the Company's external Manager's activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the Auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market internal controls, which safeguards shareholders' investment operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit and the Company's assets, is maintained.
An internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and unnecessary.
timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to Socially Responsible Investment Policy systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the interests of the Company.
As an investment trust, the Company has The key components designed to provide effective internal no direct social, environmental or community responsibilities.
control for the year under review and up to the date of this However, the Directors acknowledge that there are risks Annual Report are outlined below: associated with investment in companies which fail to the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts conduct business in a socially responsible manner and the which allow the Board to assess the Company's activities Directors, therefore, ensure that they take regular account of and review its investment performance the social, environment and ethical factors, which may affect the Board and the Manager have agreed clearly-defined the performance or value of the Company's investments.
investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including Exercise of Voting Powers performance statistics and investment valuations, are The Directors believe that the exercise of voting rights at regularly submitted to the Board.
The Manager's evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies company meetings lies at the heart of the regulation and concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence promotion of corporate governance.
The Board has, as a matter of course, the compliance department of therefore, given discretionary voting powers to the Manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited continually reviews the who endeavours to exercise these powers.
Manager's operations written agreements are in place which specifically define Substantial Interests the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third At 11 September 2009, the following interests in the issued party service providers Ordinary share capital of the Company have been disclosed twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing assessment of internal controls by considering Authority's Disclosure and Transparency Rules: documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions, and taking account of events since the relevant period end Number of on a monthly basis the Board receives a detailed Shareholder shares held % held Compliance Report.
Clients of Aberdeen Asset 10,800,657 16.7 Management In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly-documented 2,566,738 3.97 Legal & General Assurance contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities Pensions Management 34 Murray Income Trust PLC
