Statement of Corporate Governance be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains Introduction full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate operational and compliance issues.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to management policies.
comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the monitoring of the business activities of the Company the Code as appended to the Listing Rules.
Additionally, ranging from analysis of investment performance through the Association of Investment Companies AIC published a to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance Code on Corporate Governance in July 2003 as amended in analysis.
February 2006 which complements the Code and represents Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the a framework of best practice in certain areas of governance interim and annual financial statements and approval and where the specific characteristics of investment companies recommendation of the interim and final dividends suggest alternative approaches that may be preferable to respectively.
There is a certain amount of setting the level of gearing which the Manager may overlap with the Code, although the focus of attention is on operate.
Board appointments and removals and the related terms subject to appropriate shareholder approval.
Application of the Code appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for and conditions of the management and administration good governance and this statement describes how the agreements relating thereto.
principles identified in the Code have been applied by the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
Save for the exception noted below, the Company Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2009. listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
The Board In addition there were three meetings of the Audit The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, all of Committee, one meeting of the Remuneration Committee, whom are considered to be independent of the Manager two meetings of the Management Engagement Committee Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and and three other Board Committee meetings.
free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
It Mr Shedden is the senior independent non-executive should be noted that: Director.
the Chairman was independent on appointment and, in There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take compliance with the AIC Code, continues to be so: independent professional advice, if necessary, at the the Company does not have an internal audit function Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice Combined Code Provision C3.5.
and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 20 to 21 of this report and indicate their range of high level industrial, for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: commercial and professional experience, within an under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good international perspective.
information flows with the Board and its committees, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and development as required: and, ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
for advising through the Chairman on all corporate During the year ended 31 December 2009 the Board met governance matters.
seven times and also held a Strategy Meeting.
The primary focus at regular Board Meetings is a review of investment When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group basis, with key information on the Companys policies, information and industry issues.
Between these meetings, the regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to Murray International Trust PLC 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services the Board as they arise.
offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers regular monitoring reports from the Manager in respect of the delegated service Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee providers.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are meetings held during the year as shown below with their supplied to the Board as requested.
eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : Scheduled Management Committees Board and The composition of the Committees is shown below under Strategy Audit Engagement the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each Meetings Committees Committees Committee are available on request and copies are also Attended attended attended available on the Companys website.
J F H Trott 7 7 0 0 2 2 Nomination Committee Lady Balfour 7 7 3 3 1 2 of Burleigh A Nomination Committee has been established with written terms of reference copies of which are available upon request D H 3 3 1 1 1 1 Benson from the Company Secretary and also on the Company's website, and comprises the following members, all of whom J D Best 7 7 3 3 2 2 are independent from any relationship that would interfere K J 4 4 2 2 1 1 with impartial judgement in carrying out their Carter responsibilities: A C 7 7 3 3 2 2 Shedden Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Mr Trott is not a member of the Audit Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr Benson retired on 22 April 2009 Mr J D Best Dr Carter was appointed on 23 April 2009 Dr K J Carter Mr A C Shedden To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of the following matters: Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of the identification and nomination of candidates to fill papers, including the Managers review and discussion Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried further enquiries where necessary.
out in conjunction with the Board by an independent firm of consultants: The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual plans for succession: performance evaluation, by means of general discussion and the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the individual interviews between the Chairman and the other conclusion of their specified term of office: Directors, to ensure that all Directors have devoted sufficient the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles and Committees.
As part of the Directors evaluation process of Association: the training needs of Directors, if any, were discussed and the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and agreed.
The Chairman has been satisfactorily evaluated by the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. his fellow Directors.
The Board is satisfied with its current Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the balance, performance and the contributions of its Directors position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom during the year.
would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
External Agencies On 23 April 2009 Dr Carter was appointed to the Board as an The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, independent non-executive Director following an extensive including the Manager and other service providers, certain search which was undertaken using the services of an services: the management of the investment portfolio, the executive recruitment agency.
custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day to day The Committee recommended to the Board the nomination accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of for re-election of Lady Balfour who retires by rotation at the these contracts was entered into after full and proper Annual General Meeting and is seeking re-election.
The 28 Murray International Trust PLC Committee recommended the election of Dr Carter who Details of attendance at the Audit Committee are shown on retires at the Annual General Meeting following his page 28. appointment to the Board on 23 April 2009 and is seeking election.
The Committee also recommended the re-election The Board receives a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, its of Mr Shedden and Mr Trott who are retiring voluntarily auditor, which notes that Ernst & Young has policies and having served more than nine years on the Board and are procedures in place that instil professional values as part of seeking re-election.
The Committee concluded that the its firms culture and ensure that the highest standards of knowledge and experience of the Directors seeking reobjectivity and independence and integrity are maintained.
election is greatly valued by the Board.
Details of their other Accordingly, the Board confirms its belief that Ernst & Young directorships are shown on pages 20 and 21. is independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee An Audit Committee has been established with written terms As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management of reference, copies of which are available upon request from Engagement Committee has been established with written the Company Secretary and also on the Company's website, terms of reference, copies of which are available upon and comprises the following members, all of whom are request from the Company Secretary and on the Company's independent and free from any relationship that would website, comprising the following members, all of whom are interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their independent and free from any relationship that would responsibilities: interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr A C Shedden Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Dr K J Carter Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr J D Best Dr K J Carter Mr J D Best The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed Mr A C Shedden and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the year It annually reviews matters concerning the management under review, in accordance with those terms of reference agreement which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers included: Limited.
Details of the management agreement are shown on page 25 of the Annual Report.
Details of attendance at the the review of the effectiveness of the internal control Management Engagement Committee are shown on page 28. environment of the Company to assist in this the Company receives reports from the internal and external Remuneration Committee auditors on a regular basis: The Company has appointed a Remuneration Committee, the review of the annual accounts and half yearly report: comprising the following members: the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee services provided by the Auditors if applicable although Dr K J Carter there is no fixed rotation in place for the Companys Mr J D Best auditors, the Companys audit arrangements are reviewed Mr A C Shedden on a periodic basis in order to confirm that the engagement terms remain in line with the market and competitive: The Combined Code recommends that all the members of the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the the Committee should be independent.
The remuneration of independence and objectivity of the Auditors it should be the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, change the calibre appropriate to the future development of the partner responsible for the audit every five years : Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, the review of the Auditors management letter and the together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is management response: detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 the review of the Managers whistleblowing and 34. arrangements: the review of the management agreement: and Directors Terms of Appointment meetings with representatives of the Manager.
All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Murray International Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Report on pages 22 and 23.
Separate resolutions are Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of proposed for each issue.
Association state that Directors must offer themselves for reelection at least once every three years.
Any Director who The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting seeks re-election beyond six years will be subject to is an event for all shareholders and encourages them to particularly rigorous review to ensure their performance attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to continues to be effective.
the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the Company.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Policy on Tenure number of proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the The Board takes the view that independence is not Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt necessarily compromised by length of tenure on the Board with on a show of hands.
and that experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
In line with best practice, the Boards policy is for Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the Directors who have been on the Board for more than nine free shareholder information telephone service run by the years to retire at each subsequent Annual General Meeting Manager and the Company and the Manager respond to and submit themselves for annual re-election.
The other letters from shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with Directors have discussed the re-elections of Mr Trott and Mr major shareholders and reports back to the Board on these Shedden and, notwithstanding that both are in their tenth visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and year of service with the Company, confirm that these other publications can be downloaded is maintained on Directors remain independent.
co. uk Directors are very pleased to recommend to shareholders that they support the re-election of Mr Trott and Mr Accountability and Audit Shedden.
The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is on page 32 and the Statement of Communication with Shareholders Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on pages The Company places a great deal of importance on 25 and 26.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 35. communication with its shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Section 992 Companies Act 2006 shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
Shareholders attention is drawn to the further information on page 26 which is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and rule 7.2.
6 of the The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
that, when its shares are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of Internal Control shareholder communications for distribution to their The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the Directors on the Combined Code the FRC guidance in nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the October 2005, the Directors confirm that there is an ongoing opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Direction process for identifying, evaluating and managing the enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will in place for the full year under review and up to the date of complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it approval of the financial statements, and this process is to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the FRC Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting Guidance.
are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As required under the Code, the Annual Report is The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of posted to shareholders at least twenty business days before internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process the Annual General Meeting.
for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Company and the policies and procedures by which these The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting risks are managed.
and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors 30 Murray International Trust PLC The Directors have delegated the investment management of In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented the Companys assets to the Manager within overall contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system that have been delegated to external professional of internal control, including financial, operational and organisations.
compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six function which undertakes periodic examination of business monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has processes, including compliance with the terms of the direct access to the Directors at any time.
management agreement, and ensures that recommendations The internal control systems are designed to meet the to improve controls are implemented.
Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are Risks are identified and documented through a risk designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure management framework by each function within the to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market material misstatement or loss.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Proxy Voting as an Institutional Investor Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the investee company, and for The key components designed to provide effective internal attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence control for the year under review and up to the date of this of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to Report are outlined below: exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote on all shares held by the the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts Company.
which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its investment performance: Socially Responsible Investment Policy the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the investment criteria: Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on associated with investment in companies which fail to these issues, including performance statistics and conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors Board.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial which may affect the performance or value of the analysis of the companies concerned include detailed Companys investments.
The Directors, through the appraisal and due diligence: Companys Manager, encourage companies in which as a matter of course the compliance department of investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be Managers operations: achieved by entering into a dialogue with company written agreements are in place which specifically define management to encourage them, where necessary, to the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate party service providers and monitoring reports are received objective however is to deliver superior investment return for from these providers when required: its shareholders.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to the Board has considered the need for an internal audit favour companies which pursue best practice in the above function but, because of the compliance and internal areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to investment portfolio.
place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit procedures: and By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an Aberdeen Asset Management PLC assessment of internal controls by considering Secretary documentation from the Manager, including its internal 40 Princes Street, audit and compliance functions and taking account of Edinburgh EH2 2BY events since the relevant period end.
22 February 2010 Murray International Trust PLC 31
