52 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules and to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The Board considers that the Company is compliant with the Combined Code, other than in the areas detailed on page 61.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Board Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience and ability that will assist the Board in its key functions, are prerequisites for appointment.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, five executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The directors biographies are on pages 42 to 43.
Hamish Grossart and Mark Tyndall both served as non-executive directors during the year but will be retiring at the AGM on 20 May 2010.
The Board plans to appoint two new independent non-executive directors in the near future as replacements for Mr Grossart and Mr Tyndall.
Iain McLaren took over the role of Cairns senior independent non-executive director from Hamish Grossart on 19 May 2009.
A key responsibility for the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman, Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director takes the lead role when the non-executive directors assess the performance of the Chairman.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board and was reviewed during 2009 to ensure it remains appropriate and effective.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Group and approval of the annual report and accounts and any other financial statements, the Groups annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board was also reviewed and updated during 2009.
The Board delegates the execution of its strategic objectives to the Chief Executives Committee, which comprises the executive directors and senior management.
Operational management of the Group on a day-to-day basis is delegated to asset managers and functional heads of department.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
In addition, each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
During 2009, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, four of which were held at the Companys registered office in Edinburgh, with one meeting held in Greenland and another held in Rajasthan, India.
Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of Board committees, are set out on page 57.
During the year, a number of other meetings took place to deal with specific matters that required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that sets out when those matters must be considered at a short-notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board comprising at least two non-executive directors, one of whom must be the Chairman or the senior independent non-executive directors, and two executive directors.
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes presentations from senior operational management, is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
In particular, the agenda for each Board meeting includes a detailed update on matters in respect of the Groups Indian business from those directors of the Company who also sit in a non-executive capacity on the board of Cairn India currently Sir Bill Gammell, Jann Brown and Malcolm Thoms.
The Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India, Rahul Dhir, also attends part of each meeting to ensure that the Board is kept fully briefed on matters relating to Cairn India.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The non-executive directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members, senior management and certain of the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack which contains background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys policies and procedures, financial information, an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development training to its directors and in 2009 held a number of seminars for Board members, which are regularly presented by the Companys external advisers and guest speakers, on subjects appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
These seminars were held at the end of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at such meetings.
This process is continuing in 2010.
Any director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all press cuttings relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the Company are distributed to all directors.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and during 2009 the Board visited both Greenland in July and the Companys operations in Rajasthan, India in December.
The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
This was introduced in accordance with directors interests provisions in the Companies Act 2006 which came into force from 1 October 2008.
All directors were asked to submit details to the Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
Notifications were received from all directors and there were no conflict matters which required to be authorised.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Performance Evaluations The Board has a formal rigorous process of annual performance evaluation for the Board, audit, nomination and remuneration committees and individual directors.
The Board reviews on an annual basis whether such performance evaluation should be conducted using an external resource and meetings were held with two external consultancies during 2009 to discuss the possibility of outsourcing this process.
The Board decided, however, that for 2009 there was value in continuing to conduct the process internally, particularly given new appointments to the Board and Board committees in 2008 and 2009.
The performance evaluation for 2009 was primarily based upon answers to a high level questionnaire which had been updated since the previous years evaluation and which focused on the performance of the Board.
The questionnaire was prepared internally by the Company Secretary and Chairman and was subsequently distributed to all Board members and the Company Secretary.
The areas covered in the questionnaire included the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, strategy setting, performance against key objectives and the level of information available to the Board in relation to Cairn India.
Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the Board and the Company Secretary, the Chairman held a meeting with each director and the Company Secretary individually, as appropriate, to discuss their responses.
The Chairman then reported the results of the process to the Board at a Board meeting, which discussed the comments and implemented the conclusions.
The Board and Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively.
The executive directors and non-executive directors also provided feedback on the performance of the Chairman, following which the Board not including the Chairman is satisfied that the Chairmans performance is effective and that he continues to demonstrate a high level of commitment to the role.
The performance evaluation process indicated areas for improvement, which have been or are being implemented.
Following the performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors performance including those of Malcolm Thoms, Jann Brown and Simon Thomson, who are standing for re-election at the AGM continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to the role.
A performance evaluation of the Board, the Board committees and individual directors will continue to be conducted annually and the method for such review will continue to be reviewed by the Board in order to optimise the process.
The executive directors have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against objectives which are set annually.
The bonuses payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described further in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 63 are linked directly to the results of these reviews.
54 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
Hamish Grossart has served on the Board for more than nine years but will not seek re-election at the AGM on 20 May 2010.
Accordingly, this report does not contain an explanation included in previous years as to why the Board considers Mr Grossart to be independent.
The Board believes that the following behaviours are essential in order for a director to be considered independent: t Provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors.
t Questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously and dispassionately.
t Acts at all times in the best interests of the organisation and its shareholders.
t Has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Groups business, industry and the market as a whole.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors of the Company are independent.
In addition to this review process, the Company plans to appoint two new independent non-executive directors in the near future.
Board Committees The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committees and the minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee.
Audit Committee Report The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Iain McLaren chairman, Hamish Grossart and Dr Jim Buckee.
The Board is satisfied that two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr McLaren was formerly a senior partner at KPMG LLP.
Mr Grossart serves on audit committees of other listed companies and trained as an investment banker.
As mentioned above, Mr Grossart will retire from the audit committee with effect from 20 May 2010 and will be replaced by a new independent non-executive director.
The audit committee met four times in 2009.
At the request of the audit committee, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
The Chairman also attended one meeting as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
In addition, all four meetings were attended by the external auditors and by the internal auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all audit committee papers including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
The role of the committee includes: t monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: t reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports: t reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: t monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: t overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and t reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Of the four audit committee meetings held during 2009, the first two meetings were in respect of the 2008 year-end process the second two meetings were in respect of the 2009 interim accounts.
At the first of these meetings, issues which may impact on the financial statements are raised by both the senior management and the external auditors.
The auditors also present their audit plan.
Audit committee guidance is sought on accounting policies and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the audit committee recommends the policies to be adopted or directs senior management to produce further information if deemed necessary.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued At the second meeting in respect of the year-end process, the external auditors report their audit results to the audit committee, including a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The audit committee considers any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and cost.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement must be approved by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
The audit committee must also be satisfied that the engagement is the most effective and efficient means of procuring such non-audit services.
KPMG LLP has been appointed by the audit committee to supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function.
KPMG also provides internal audit services to Cairn India.
At the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audit, the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the committee on the internal audit work plan.
The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Companys internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend all audit committee meetings where internal audit updates are given.
The Company undertook an audit tender process in 2003, as a result of which Ernst & Young LLP EY were re-engaged as the Companys auditors.
The Company monitors its auditors performance on an ongoing basis, including an annual assessment carried out by the audit committee with input from the Finance Director and other key members of the finance department.
Following such assessment, the audit committee meets to discuss what actions, if any, require to be taken.
In addition to this, the EY senior audit partner working with Cairn is subject to rotation.
The current audit partner has worked with the Company on the 2008 and 2009 year-end process.
The Company updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2009 and the new policy has been rolled out across the organisation and reviewed by the audit committee.
The audit committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Remuneration Committee Report The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Dr Jim Buckee chairman, Norman Murray, Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt.
As mentioned above, Mark Tyndall will retire as a member of the remuneration committee on 20 May 2010 and will be replaced by a new independent nonexecutive director.
The remuneration committee met six times during 2009.
The Chief Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
In addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals.
Certain other of the executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The role of the committee includes: t determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the CEC: t within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director: t determining the level of awards made under the Companys share option plans and long-term incentive plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: t determining bonuses payable under the Companys cash bonus scheme: t determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive plans and exercise of share options: and t determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 77.
56 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued 3.
Nomination Committee Report The nomination committee currently comprises Norman Murray chairman, three independent non-executive directors, Todd Hunt, Mark Tyndall and Iain McLaren, and, to ensure input from the executive, one executive director, Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive.
As mentioned above, Mark Tyndall will retire as a member of the nomination committee with effect from 20 May 2010 and will be replaced by a new independent non-executive director.
Certain other of the non-executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
The nomination committee met six times in 2009.
The Combined Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria.
For this purpose, the Board has established the nomination committee, whose role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing directors.
The nomination committee reviews Board composition on an ongoing basis and regularly considers whether any skills gap exists on the Board.
Any new appointments to the Board will be considered in this context.
The committee has identified two very strong candidates to replace Hamish Grossart and Mark Tyndall as independent non-executive directors.
It is expected that these candidates will be appointed in the near future.
Both have visited the Companys office in Edinburgh and met with the Chairman and other members of the nomination committee as well as the executive directors and senior management.
They have also been given the opportunity to carry out due diligence on the Company.
Following the appointment of these two new non-executive directors, a total of four independent non-executive directors will have been appointed to the board since mid 2008.
Succession Planning The nomination committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Board has satisfied itself that the nomination committee has in place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees.
The Board and nomination committee are satisfied that individuals currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that orderly succession to the Chief Executives Committee and Board can take place.
Organisational Planning Throughout 2009, the Company continued to focus on employee engagement and organisational development.
In view of planned drilling programmes in both Greenland and the Mediterranean during 2010, the key focus of activities during the year involved the transition from a primarily corporate head office to a joint  hub.
A full review of HR policies was undertaken in late 2008 and the new and updated policies were approved by the Chief Executives Committee in February 2009.
In keeping with the shift to a more operationally focused organisation, new policies were introduced and other policies were revised or introduced to align with changes in legislation and industry best practice and to further support the Company in attracting and retaining staff.
Throughout the remainder of 2009, the policies were rolled out to all managers and staff to ensure the equitable and consistent application of HR policy and to help inform and guide day-to-day human resources decisions.
Another key change during 2009 was Cairns formal move to an asset-led matrix organisation structure.
Directors, asset managers, heads of departments, and other relevant internal stakeholders attended a workshop in August 2009 on how best to work together in the new structure, during which a number of ideas were generated.
Project teams have subsequently been formed to work on clearly identified projects aimed at creating greater efficiencies in the way the Company works and this will continue during 2010.
With drilling in both Greenland and Tunisia scheduled for 2010, a firm emphasis was placed on resourcing during the second half of 2009.
In order to ensure that the Company can effectively and efficiently source the right people at the right time, a comprehensive tendering process was undertaken with recruitment partners to finalise preferred supplier lists for various disciplines across the business.
The Company is continuing to recruit additional new staff during 2010 in response to growing resource needs throughout the organisation.
Governance Award In October 2009, Cairn was ranked one of the top ten FTSE 100 companies in the Resources Governance Index published by Resources Global Professionals.
This is the first Index of its kind and provides a comprehensive benchmark of corporate governance standards in the FTSE 100.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued Directors Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2009: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings held during 2009 6 4 6 6 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended Executive Directors 1 Sir Bill Gammell 6 n a n a 6 1 Dr Mike Watts 6 n a n a n a 1 1 Jann Brown 6 n a n a n a Malcolm Thoms 6 n a n a n a Phil Tracy 6 n a n a n a Simon Thomson 6 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 1 Norman Murray 6 n a 6 6 2 3 3 Hamish Grossart 6 3 2 3 4 Todd Hunt 6 n a 6 4 2 2 4 Mark Tyndall 4 n a 3 2 Iain McLaren 6 4 n a 6 Dr Jim Buckee 6 4 6 n a Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
1 During 2009, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
3 Hamish Grossart resigned as a member of the remuneration and nomination committees on 19 May 2009.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
4 Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt were appointed members of the nomination committee on 19 May 2009.
The number of meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Cairn sends both its annual report and accounts and halfyearly report to all shareholders.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year-end and interim results.
The Chairman usually attends a number of these meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company maintains an external relations database which details all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders and also launched an extensively updated new website during 2009, which contains a wide range of information on the Company and includes a dedicated investor relations section.
A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the Directors Report on page 46.
The senior independent non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with major shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
During the last quarter of 2009 the Company conducted an extensive investor consultation process in relation to proposals for the conversion of certain share incentive awards.
As part of this process, the Chairman deputising for the chairman of the remuneration committee and the Company Secretary held meetings with several of the Companys institutional shareholders, the ABI and RREV to discuss these proposals, which were subsequently approved by shareholders at the Companys EGM held on 21 December 2009.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary also plan to meet with the ABI, RREV and certain institutional shareholders during 2010 to discuss corporate governance matters generally.
58 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 20 May 2010 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and on the Companys website.
Further explanation of the resolutions can also be found in the Directors Report on pages 47 to 50.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
The Form of Proxy for the AGM includes a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and t state that the Group and Company financial statements have complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Each of the directors, whose names are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages 42 and 43 confirms to the best of his knowledge that: t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company: and t the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Group and Companys financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going Concern The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control and Assurance Framework the framework, which plays a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding shareholders interests and Company assets.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2009 accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2009 and will ensure that such reviews are performed in 2010.
In so doing, the Board has taken into account the assurance provided by the Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India and Chief Executive of Cairn Energy PLC in respect of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within Cairn India Limited and Cairn Energy PLC.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective control is in place and that risks have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the countries in which it conducts its activities.
The directors believe that Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in areas where they believe they have a technical and commercial advantage and the experience gained over many years enables the Company to manage these risks effectively.
Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, and the directors believe that the Groups values of integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and alliancing with key partners are ingredients that are central to the Companys success.
The ability to recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in this approach and success.
2009 was another year of change.
The Company was focused on supporting its subsidiary company Cairn India in progressing the Mangala field development whilst at the same time building an exploration portfolio in Greenland through its Capricorn operating subsidiary.
Particular attention has been placed by Group management on ensuring that a robust system of internal control has been maintained during 2009 in relation to the significant risks in these business activities.
Cairn India is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Board of India SEBI and to its listing agreement with the Bombay Stock Exchange BSE and National Stock Exchange NSE.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement between the Company and Cairn India entered into at the time of the IPO the Relationship Agreement, both companies have also agreed to use reasonable endeavours to ensure that they can comply with their respective obligations to SEBI, the Financial Services Authority, the BSE, the NSE and the London Stock Exchange and under the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations and UK regulation and legislation relating to the disclosure of information or dealing in respect of listed securities or corporate governance.
This has included adopting and following the principles and policies of corporate governance, including risk management, which enable each company to comply with these obligations.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes used by the Board during 2009 to review the effectiveness of the system.
It also describes the approach to be taken in 2010.
Strategic Direction The Group business model is conventional in that strategy is set by the directors and approved by the Board and its implementation is delegated to the CEC.
Following its listing on the BSE and NSE in January 2007, Cairn India is a subsidiary of the Company with its own board of directors.
In accordance with the memorandum and articles of association of Cairn India, the Company has three non-executive directors on the board of Cairn India including Sir Bill Gammell as Chairman and, therefore, has an input to Cairn Indias strategy.
Operating Management Outside of Cairn India, the Group, through its unlisted wholly owned subsidiary Capricorn, operates several business units in different countries and with various partners.
Work programmes and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting at the asset level before being consolidated at Group level.
A detailed business plan is also prepared to meet the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the Companys annual business plan.
After an iterative process, the business plan and budget is presented to the CEC and the Board for approval.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement the business plans and to deliver the agreed work programme within the approved budget and delegation of authorities, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
The remit of the CEC is to oversee the delivery of the strategy through the annual business plans and approved budget.
The directors have also appointed Group functional heads whose roles include providing input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information and to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
Risk Management The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, established by the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks.
The Group Business Risk Management System GBRMS defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group.
The GBRMS also identifies the risk management organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and group levels.
The GRMC is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises executive directors and senior functional management.
The nonexecutive chairman of the Audit Committee is also a member of the GRMC.
In addition, the Internal Auditor attends all GRMC meetings in order to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management process.
A corporate and new ventures risk management sub-committee was also established in 2009 under the chairmanship of the Legal & Commercial Director to manage the assessment and treatment of wider business risks that may affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
60 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued Cairn India operates its own RMC in line with its Business Risk Management System BRMS under the chairmanship of the Chief Operating Officer and reporting to the Cairn India Board.
Risk management sub-committees have also been set up reporting to the Cairn India RMC to consider the specific risks associated with operations, finance, exploration and the Rajasthan upstream and midstream projects.
The Cairn India BRMS is substantially similar to that of the Company and, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, a copy of the Cairn India risk report and RMC minutes is routinely submitted for review at the GRMC, at which a senior representative from Cairn India is present to provide explanation and take questions.
Business risks, together with the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, are recorded in asset and country risk registers which are reported through to the Group risk register.
The Cairn India asset, corporate and new venture risk registers are integrated into the Group risk register, and are regularly reviewed by the GRMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded risk management approach in place across the Group.
The GRMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the audit committee and the Board.
Additionally, the audit committee and Board receives internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal control relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2009 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are appropriate.
A summary of key risks and uncertainties as at the end of 2009, together with mitigation measures, is provided on pages 32 and 33.
Assurance The framework adopted by the Board provides for three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: first of all at the operational level: secondly through overview by Group functional management and the GRMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
During 2009 a review was conducted by Deloitte of the appropriateness of the Cairn framework.
This review concluded that the principles outlined in the framework are essentially fit for purpose, however changes are required to the framework document to reflect recent structural and personnel changes across the organisation.
The review also identified a number of areas for improvement including embedding the application of the framework into day-to-day operations, enhancing documentation and dissemination of procedures and controls, and enhancements to the questionnaires used in the annual assurance process.
A separate Group HSE, Risk and Compliance Department was subsequently established in January 2010.
This department reports to the Finance Director and provides independent verification of CR, business risk and compliance activities.
During 2009, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following internal and external controls: t a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: t policies and procedures for key business activities including a whistleblowing policy : t an appropriate organisational structure: t control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives: t specific delegations of authority for all financial and other transactions: t segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective: t business and financial reporting, including KPIs: t functional management reviews: t the nomination of various directors of the Company to the Cairn India board in a non-executive capacity and to certain of its committees.
The Board also receives copies of minutes of meetings of the Cairn India board of directors: t a Relationship Agreement with Cairn India, which, inter alia, contains provisions for the supply by Cairn India to the Company of such information and confirmations as the Company may require to comply with legal, regulatory and reporting obligations: t an annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and functional managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with Group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year: t a letter of assurance from the Cairn India Chief Executive Officer and Cairn Energy PLC Chief Executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within Cairn India and Cairn Energy PLC in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year: t Group internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual internal audit plan approved by the audit committee and Board: t reports from the Group audit committee and GRMC, including reports from the Cairn India RMC and Cairn India audit committee : t reports from the Group external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: t reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: and t independent third party reviews.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Continued Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout 2009 the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Provision of the Combined Code Company position Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, excluding During 2009, the Board comprised the The Board firmly believes that the the chairman, should comprise nonChairman, the Chief Executive, five other composition of the Board was appropriate executive directors determined by executive directors and five independent and effective for the challenges that it the Board to be independent.
The Board is satisfied and Mark Tyndall will both retire at the that it maintained a sufficient degree of AGM to be held on 20 May 2010 and will independence throughout the year to enable be replaced by two new independent it to discharge effectively and properly its non-executive directors.
obligations under the Combined Code.
The composition of the Board and the issue of succession planning remains under constant review and is a regular item on the agenda for meetings of the nomination committee.
4.1 a majority of the members of The Company complied with this At the start of 2009 the nomination the nomination committee should be provision from 19 May until 31 December committee comprised two independent independent non-executive directors.
During the period from 1 January non-executive directors, the Chairman 2009 to 19 May 2009 the Company and one executive director.
Following did not comply with the provision.
the appointment of Todd Hunt and Mark Tyndall as members of the nomination committee with effect from 19 May 2009, the Company complied with the provision.
