GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs In this section, we describe how the Companys governance operated during 2009 Old Mutual views good governance as a vital ingredient of operating a successful business.
Martin Murray Group Company Secretary 153 Auditors Index to this section of the Report 154 Internal control environment 146 Approach to governance Responsibility for internal control 146 Combined Code compliance Assessment of the system of 146 Walker Review internal control Group Internal Audit 146 Board of Directors Membership 155 Other Directors Report matters 2009 operations Relations with shareholders and analysts Responsibilities of the Board General Meetings Delegation of certain responsibilities Directors shareholdings and share dealings Scheme of Delegated Authority Directors indemnities Rotation and reelection of directors Supplier payment policy Skills, experience and review Charitable contributions Board performance review Environmental matters Executive and nonexecutive roles Political donations Independence of nonexecutive directors Dividend policy Senior independent director Share capital Directors interests Rights and obligations attaching to shares Directors conflicts of interest Shares held in employee benefit trusts Significant agreements 150 Board Committees Substantial interests in voting rights Group Audit and Risk Committee Going concern Remuneration Committee Disclosure of information to the auditors Nomination Committee Other committees 160 Governing law 153 Attendance record Old Mutual plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 Approach to governance and in the preparation of this Annual Report and Old Mutual views good governance as a vital these Accounts, the Company has complied with ingredient of operating a successful business, so the main and supporting principles and provisions that we can provide assurance to shareholders, set out in the Combined Code as described in the customers and regulators that the Groups following sections of this Report.
The Companys businesses are being properly managed and compliance with Combined Code provisions C1.1, controlled.
C2.1, C3.1 to C3.7, and the statement relating to The approach that the Group adopts to governance the going concern basis adopted in preparing the is underpinned by the Groups four values of financial statements set out at the end of this section integrity, respect, accountability and pushing of this report, have been reviewed by the Companys beyond boundaries.
We require integrity of the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance with Groups businesses in all their dealings, including guidance published by the Auditing Practices Board.
the way in which their boards of directors operate Walker Review and report upwards.
Respect is reflected in the During 2009, in response to the view that dynamics between the centre and the operating the events of the financial crisis had exposed units and the manner in which problems, when they material shortcomings in the governance and do arise, are dealt with.
Accountability lies at the risk management of some regulated firms, the heart of all good governance systems and is vital UK Treasury commissioned Sir David Walker to for the prompt escalation of issues and how they carry out a review of the corporate governance of are then addressed.
Finally, we aim to empower our major banks and other financial institutions, which operating units to push beyond boundaries and led to the publication, in November 2009, of a to be responsive and inventive to serve customers report containing 39 recommendations.
These needs without entangling them with unnecessary covered board size, composition and qualification: red tape.
functioning of the board and evaluation of During 2009, the Group reviewed its board performance: the role of institutional shareholders structures and risk governance arrangements in in exercising good stewardship over the firms in major subsidiaries, seeking to apply lessons learned which they invest: governance of risk: and directors during the severe downturn in 2008 and the first remuneration.
We believe that in the current climate Old Mutual has already begun to address the we should move from a highly decentralised federal implications of the Walker Review and will be taking model of group governance to a more centralised further steps during 2010 in order to be compliant strategic controller model steered from our head by the time the new regime is fully in force.
Our new Group Operating Model will be rolled currently expected to be for accounting periods out during 2010. beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Further details Combined Code compliance of how the Walker Reviews recommendations As the Companys primary listing which will be on remuneration matters are being factored renamed from 1 April 2010 as a premium listing is into the Companys approach are set out in the on the London Stock Exchange, this report mainly Remuneration Report.
addresses the matters covered by the Combined Board of Directors Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Membership Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the The Old Mutual Board currently has 11 members, Combined Code, but the Company also has two of whom are executive and nine of whom are regard to governance expectations in the four other nonexecutive directors.
All of the current directors, territories where its shares are listed South Africa, except for Mr M Arnold who was appointed to the Malawi, Namibia and Zimbabwe.
The Companys Board from 1 September 2009 and Mr P O Sullivan major South African subsidiaries are also subject who was appointed as successor to Mr C Collins to applicable local governance expectations, as Chairman of the Board with effect from including those contained in King 3 and, in the case 1 January 2010, served throughout the year ended of Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & Federal 31 December 2009.
Insurance Company Limited until it was delisted on 8 February 2010, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
14 146 6 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2009 operations effectiveness which, in 2009, led to the decision Board meetings were held regularly during 2009. to pursue the new Group Operating Model : Scheduled meetings were coordinated with the overall review and approval of Group strategy Companys reporting calendar to allow for detailed and the setting of longterm objectives and or consideration of interim, preliminary and final results changes in strategic direction: and and quarterly interim management statements.
monitoring of the overall performance of the Sessions were also devoted to strategy and Group in relation to its objectives, plans, targets business planning and the Board met ad hoc, and the implementation of projects and decisions.
as required, to deal with specific matters requiring its consideration.
In all, 11 Board meetings were held Delegation of certain responsibilities during 2009.
The Board has delegated its executive powers to the Group Chief Executive, with power to Monthly management accounts were circulated subdelegate, and to the Approvals Committee.
to each member of the Board within three weeks In his coordination and stewardship of the Group, of the monthend, containing detailed analysis of the Group Chief Executive is advised by the Group the businesses financial performance, including Executive Committee, a consultative management comparisons against budget.
In addition to the executive directors of from these are addressed at Board meetings or can the Company Mr J Roberts and Mr P Broadley, the be raised directly with management.
other members of the Group Executive Committee The Board calendar ensures that all key matters are: Mr A Birrell Group Risk and Actuarial Director, are scheduled for attention over the course of the Mr M Brown Chief Executive of Nedbank Group, year, including presentations on the Groups major who succeeded Mr T Boardman in March 2010, businesses.
Mr P Hanratty Chief Executive Officer of the Responsibilities of the Board LongTerm Savings division, Mr D Hope Head of The Boards role is to exercise stewardship of Strategy Development, Mr P Maddox Head of the Company within a framework of prudent and Strategic Implementation, Mr D Schneider Group effective controls that enable risk to be assessed Human Resources Director and Mr T Turpin Chief and managed.
The Board sets the Companys Executive Officer of US Asset Management.
strategic aims, reviews whether the necessary Additional details accompany the photographs of financial and human resources are in place for it the Committee on pages 28 and 29 of this Annual to meet its objectives and monitors management Report.
It is kept informed about major The Board has also delegated specific responsibilities developments affecting the Group through the for certain matters to Board committees.
The Group Chief Executives monthly reports and also principal Board committees have responsibility for holds one or more strategy sessions each year at Nomination, Remuneration, and Group Audit and which highlevel strategic matters are debated.
Risk, subject to their respective terms of reference.
The Board has overall authority for the conduct of The Board receives reports from these committees the business of the Group and there are a number of on the matters that they have covered.
The matters matters that have been specifically reserved for the addressed by the principal Board committees in Board to decide, including: 2009 are outlined in the part of this section of the Annual Report headed Board Committees.
approval of financial reporting and controls, such as interim and annual results, the Annual Report The Chairman and Group Company Secretary are and Accounts of the Group, payment of dividends both involved in ensuring good information flows and accounting policies: within the Board and its committees, as well as in facilitating induction and training for the directors.
monitoring of the cash and capital resources, All directors have access to the Group Company and overall liquidity, of the Group and authorising Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for any significant acquisitions, disposals of core ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
businesses, investments, capital expenditure or other material projects or transactions: On appointment, new directors receive induction, including information about matters of immediate monitoring and managing of the relationships importance to the Group, such as the current between the Group and its regulators: strategy and operating performance.
They also hold reviewing and implementing of effective a series of meetings with other directors, senior systems of delegation and internal control, and management and external advisers such as the the carrying out of an annual review of their auditors as part of this induction.
Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 14 147 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd Facilities are available for the directors to take respectively make, recommends that they be elected independent professional advice at the Companys or reelected as directors at the AGM.
Biographical expense for the furtherance of their duties, whether details of each of the directors who is standing for as members of the Board or of any of its committees.
election or reelection are contained in the Board of Directors section of this document.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Skills, experience and review directors and senior managers.
Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards composition are managed proactively by the Scheme of Delegated Authority Nomination Committee so as to ensure that Under the Scheme of Delegated Authority, the Board changes take place without undue disruption delegates decisionmaking relating to whollyowned and that there is an appropriate balance of subsidiary businesses to the boards of the Groups experience and length of service.
That Committee principal subsidiaries, subject to specified escalation also considers, in making recommendations, the criteria that require higherlevel authorisation based independence of candidates and their suitability on the materiality of the matter concerned.
and willingness to serve on other Committees of the The governance relationship with the Groups Board.
All of these aspects are currently believed majorityowned subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, by the Nomination Committee to be suitable for the is somewhat different from those that apply to requirements of the Groups business.
However, whollyowned subsidiaries, in recognition of its own such matters will be kept actively under review, governance expectations as a separatelylisted having regard to recommendations in the Board entity on the JSE Limited and the fact that it has effectiveness review, scheduled retirements of minority shareholders.
The Company entered nonexecutive directors in 2011 and the Groups into a relationship agreement with Nedbank developing strategy.
Group Limited in February 2004 setting out the Board performance review Companys requirements and expectations as its The Board conducts a review of its performance on majority shareholder.
The full text of that relationship an annual basis.
The review is designed to ensure, agreement is available on the Companys website.
among other things, that each director continues Among the matters covered are: to contribute effectively and to demonstrate Transactions involving members of the Nedbank commitment to the role including commitment of Group that require prior consultation with or time for Board and Committee meetings and any agreement by the Company other duties.
In 2009, the Board was assisted by external facilitators in its review.
The results of the Provision of information, including that required review are considered by the Board and appropriate for assuring the Company about various aspects actions taken, if necessary.
An action plan setting of corporate governance out the recommendations arising from the review Consultation over senior appointments and tracking progress in addressing them has been agreed by the Board and will be updated and Business cooperation.
considered at Board meetings during 2010.
Rotation and reelection of directors Executive and nonexecutive roles The Articles of Association of the Company require While there are currently only two executive that any newly appointed directors should be directors, all members of the Board have regular subject to election at the next following AGM and contact with the other senior executive management also that at least one third of the directors excluding including the most senior executives of the main those appointed by the Board during the year business units of the Group through their periodic should retire by rotation each year.
These provisions participation in Board meetings, other briefing are applied in such a manner that each director sessions by the senior executives and Board visits submits himself for election or reelection at regular to the locations where the Groups main businesses intervals and at least once every three years.
Accordingly, at the Annual General Meeting AGM The executive element of the Board is balanced to be held on 13 May 2010, shareholders will be by an independent group of nonexecutive asked to approve the election of Mr M Arnold directors.
The Board as a whole approves the and Mr P OSullivan, and the reelection of strategic direction of the Group, scrutinises the Mr N Andrews, Mr B Nqwababa and Mr L Otterbeck.
performance of management in meeting agreed The Board, having reviewed the performance of goals and objectives, and monitors the reporting these directors and the contributions that they each of performance.
Procedures are in place to enable 14 148 8 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board members to satisfy themselves about the the continued suitability of each nonexecutive integrity of the Groups financial information and director is assessed by the Nomination Committee to ensure that financial controls and systems of before renewal of his appointment takes place.
risk management are robust and sustainable.
The section of the Remuneration Report entitled Nonexecutive directors on the Remuneration NonExecutive Directors Terms of Engagement Committee are responsible for determining describes the current position of each of the appropriate levels of remuneration for the nonexecutive directors with respect to the duration executive directors.
Members of the Nomination of their office and how the extension process has Committee have a primary role in recommending been applied to them.
the appointment and, where necessary, removal of Independence of nonexecutive directors executive directors.
Seven of the eight current nonexecutive directors Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, other than the Chairman Messrs N Andrews, the Chairman holds meetings with the other M Arnold, R Bogni, R Edey, B Nqwababa, nonexecutive directors, without any executives L Otterbeck and R Pym are considered by the being present, to provide a forum for any issues to Board to be independent within the meaning be raised.
He also conducts an annual performance of, and having regard to the criteria set out in, evaluation of each of the other nonexecutive paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code i. e. directors, with any resulting action points being independent in character and judgment and with reported to the Nomination Committee.
These no relationships or circumstances which are likely procedures will be refreshed during 2010 in line to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgment.
with recommendations contained in the Board The other nonexecutive director, Mr R Khoza, effectiveness review conducted during 2009. is not considered independent because of his chairmanship of the Groups partlyowned Informal meetings among the nonexecutive subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, and the directors, without the Chairman or any executive business relationships between Aka Capital, in which being present, are also facilitated by the Company.
he owns a stake, and Nedbank.
Among the activities carried out at such meetings is the annual review of the Chairmans own The terms and conditions of engagement of each performance under the aegis of the senior of the nonexecutive directors are available in the independent director, who also obtains such input corporate governance section of the Companys as he considers appropriate from the executive website.
These include details of the expected directors.
As Mr Collins, the former Chairman, was time commitment involved which each of the due to retire at the end of 2009, this did not take nonexecutive directors has accepted.
significant commitments of potential appointees are considered by the Nomination Committee as part The assignment of responsibilities between the of the selection process and are disclosed to the Chairman, Mr P OSullivan, and the Group Chief Board when recommendation of an appointment is Executive, Mr J Roberts, is documented so as to submitted.
Nonexecutive directors are also required ensure that there is a clear division between the to inform the Board of any subsequent changes to running of the Board and executive responsibility for such commitments, which must be precleared with running the Companys business.
The responsibilities the Chairman if material.
of Mr P OSullivan as Chairman include those contained in the Supporting Principle to paragraph Senior independent director A.
2 of the Combined Code, namely leadership of Mr R Bogni is the senior independent director.
the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects The senior independent director is available of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that to shareholders if they have concerns that are the directors receive accurate, timely and clear unresolved after contact through the normal channels information: ensuring effective communication with of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group shareholders: facilitating the effective contribution to Finance Director or where such contact would be the Board of nonexecutive directors in particular: inappropriate.
The senior independent directors and ensuring constructive relationships between the contact details can be obtained from the Group executive and nonexecutive directors.
The Board has determined that, in the absence of Directors interests exceptional circumstances, nonexecutive directors Details of the directors interests including interests should serve a maximum of nine years in office.
of their connected persons in the share capital The renewal of nonexecutive directors terms for of the Company and quoted securities of its successive threeyear cycles is not automatic and subsidiaries at the beginning and end of the year Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 14 149 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd under review are set out in the following tables, while their interests in share options and restricted share awards are described in the section of the Remuneration Report entitled Directors interests under employee share plans.
There have been no changes to any of these interests between 31 December 2009 and 11 March 2010.
Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 31 December 2009 Mr N Andrews 7,000 Mr M Arnold 12,725 Mr R Bogni 19,000 1 Mr P Broadley 50,625 Mr R Edey 25,000 2,604 2 Mr R Khoza 2,062 Mr B Nqwababa Mr L Otterbeck Mr R Pym 40,000 1 Mr J Roberts 1,500,832 Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 1 January 2009 or date of appointment as a director, if later Mr N Andrews 7,000 Mr M Arnold 12,725 Mr R Bogni 19,000 1 Mr P Broadley Mr R Edey 25,000 2,604 2 Mr R Khoza 2,062 Mr B Nqwababa Mr L Otterbeck Mr R Pym 20,000 2 Mr J Roberts 1,089,604 Former director at 1 January and 31 December 2009 Mr C Collins 100,000 1 These figures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
2 This figure does not include shares in the AkaNedbank Eyethu Trust, one of Nedbanks Eyethu BEE trusts.
Directors conflicts of interest chairmanship of another listed company, subject to Processes are in place for any potential conflicts prior clearance by the Board and the directorship of interest to be disclosed and for directors to concerned not being in conflict or potential conflict avoid participation in any decisions where they with any of the Groups businesses.
Neither may have any such conflict or potential conflict.
Mr J Roberts nor Mr P Broadley currently holds The Companys procedures for dealing with any external nonexecutive directorships of other directors conflicts of interest have operated publiclyquoted companies.
Board Committees No director had a material interest in any significant The Board has a number of committees to which contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries various matters are delegated in accordance with during the year.
Additional details of various their respective terms of reference.
The Board also nonmaterial transactions between the directors and establishes committees on an ad hoc basis to deal the Group are reported on an aggregated basis, with particular matters.
In doing so, it specifies a along with other transactions by senior managers of remit, quorum and appropriate mix of executive and the Group, in note G3 to the Accounts.
Further information on the principal committees of the Board is set The executive directors are permitted to hold and out below.
retain for their own benefit fees from one external nonGroup nonexecutive directorship but not a 15 150 0 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Group Audit and Risk Committee Any significant findings or control issues arising Members and years of appointment: Mr R Pym from internal audits carried out around the Group: Chairman 2007, Mr N Andrews 2003, and Mr M Arnold 2009, Mr R Bogni 2002, Mr R Edey Significant risks and related risk management 2004, Mr B Nqwababa 2007.
Secretary and year practices across the Group, of appointment: Mr M Murray 1999 and received and considered specific reports or All members of the Group Audit and Risk Committee presentations on: the Committee are independent nonexecutive The Groups US life business, to satisfy itself that directors.
The Chairman, Mr Pym, is a chartered the right actions were being taken to manage risk accountant with a wide range of recent and within this operation, following the problems that relevant financial experience, being Chairman of emerged there during 2008: Bradford & Bingley plc and of Northern Rock Asset Management plc.
He was Chief Executive of the The Groups proposed response to an major UK banking group, Alliance & Leicester plc, independent actuarial report on provisioning until July 2007.
All members of the Committee for guaranteed variable annuity products at Old are expected to be financially literate and to have Mutual Bermuda: relevant corporate finance experience.
The terms The activities of subsidiary audit committees on a of reference of the Committee, which specify its regular basis a number of audit or audit and risk responsibilities, are available on our website at committees operated during 2009 at subsidiary www.
level, including at Old Mutual Life Assurance At its meetings during 2009, the Committee Company South Africa Limited, Old Mutual US considered, among other things: Holdings, Inc. Old Mutual US Life Holdings Inc. Skandia UK, Skandia Nordic, Skandia Europe The accounting principles, policies and practices & Latin America, Nedbank Group Limited and adopted in the Groups accounts.
These included Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, the use and quantum of the liquidity premium used with terms of reference broadly equivalent to in valuing the bond portfolio of the Groups US life those of the Committee : and business for the purposes of MCEV reporting, the carrying value of goodwill and various proposed The findings of Inter final Review Committees changes to actuarial assumptions: through which Group Finance reviews in detail the results of the major businesses halfyearly The internal audit function, including internal with their Finance Directors, including, where audits terms of reference, reporting lines and applicable, the actuarial aspects of the results of access to the Committee and members of the the life businesses around the Group.
Board, its plans and resources and achievement of the activities planned as part of its agreed A Group Governance and Control Planning meeting programme for the year, the results of key audits was held between the Chairman of the Committee and other significant findings, and the adequacy and the Chairmen of the main subsidiary audit of managements responses and the timeliness of committees, the Group Internal Audit Director, resolution: the heads of internal audit of major subsidiaries, the Group Risk Director and representatives of External audit, including: audit plans for the year, the Groups auditors during December 2009, changes in key external audit staff in the external to coordinate the audit committees activities auditors plan for the year, arrangements for and to review and approve the scope of internal daytoday management of the audit relationship, audit plans for 2010.
This included a presentation the auditors arrangements to identify, report and by the Companys auditors, KPMG, on the manage any conflicts of interest, the overall extent likely implications for the Group of Solvency II.
of nonaudit services provided by the external Such planning meetings take place annually.
auditors, the external auditors engagement letter for the year and fee proposal, and any major Please refer to the section later in this Report issues that arose during the course of the audit headed Auditors for information on our policy on and their resolution: auditor independence and nonaudit fees and the recommendation of the Committee that the auditors Significant accounting and actuarial issues: be reappointed for 2010.
The Committees role in Tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting relation to monitoring of risk is explained in more the Group: detail in the Internal control environment section Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 15 151 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd of this report and the separate report on Risk and Mr R Edey 2005, Mr R Pym 2008, Mr J Roberts Capital Management earlier in this document.
Secretary and year of appointment: Mr M Murray 1999.
The Groups whistleblowing arrangements enable employees of the Group and others to The Nomination Committee makes report complaints on accounting, risk issues, recommendations to the Board in relation to the internal controls, auditing issues and related appointment of directors, the structure of the Board matters.
They can do this in confidence, using a and membership of the Boards main standing dedicated hotline operated by an independent committees.
It also reviews development and firm of accountants.
Any reports are investigated succession plans for the most senior executive and escalated to the Committee as appropriate.
management of the Group and proposed Efforts are also made to educate staff around the appointments to the boards and standing Group about the existence of the whistleblowing committees of principal subsidiaries where these facility and to help them detect the signs of possible are material in the context of the Group as a fraudulent or improper activity.
It was chaired during 2009 by the Chairman of the Board, Mr C Collins, now replaced by The Committee holds private meetings with the Mr P OSullivan and a majority of its members four external auditors once a year or more often, if out of six are independent nonexecutive directors.
requested by the auditors to review key issues.
The Chairman of the Committee also has regular The terms of reference of the Nomination interaction with the external auditors, the Group Committee, which specify its responsibilities, are Internal Audit Director and the Group Risk Director, available on our website at www.
as well as with the Chairmen of subsidiary audit The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure committees and the Group Finance Director, that its process for identifying candidates for to remain abreast of issues as they arise during recommendation to the Board as new directors the year.
is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Vacancies From April 2010, the activities of the Group Audit generally arise in the context of either planned and Risk Committee will be split and reassigned, in refreshing and renewal of the Board, replacing line with recommendations contained in the Walker directors who are due to retire, or adjusting Review, into two successor committees, the Group the Boards balance of knowledge, skills or Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Mr R Pym will continue to be Chairman of the In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is Group Audit Committee, while Mr M Arnold will be paid to ensuring that they will have sufficient time Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
Each will be available in the light of their other commitments to a member of the other committee so as to ensure discharge their duties as directors of the Company.
continued close liaison about audit and risk matters.
During 2009, the Committee identified the need Remuneration Committee to increase specialist actuarial expertise within the Members and years of appointment: Mr R Bogni nonexecutive cadre, leading to the appointment of Chairman 2005, Mr N Andrews 2002, Mr R Edey Mr M Arnold to the Board.
Secretary and year of Selection Committee was established, under the appointment: Mr M Murray 1999. chairmanship of Mr R Bogni, the senior independent Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration director, for the purpose of identifying and Committee and how the Remuneration Committee recommending a suitable candidate for the position and the Board have applied the main and supporting of Chairman.
Mr C Collins, the incumbent Chairman, principles and the Code Provisions in Section B was not involved in the selection or appointment of of the Combined Code relating to remuneration his successor.
Mr P OSullivan was appointed to the matters are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Board as Chairman from 1 January 2010.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Other committees Committee, which specify its responsibilities, are There are a number of executive committees which available on our website at www.
assist the Group Chief Executive with the daytoday Nomination Committee management of the Group.
These include the Group Members and years of appointment: Mr C Collins Executive Committee mentioned earlier in this 1999, became Chairman in May 2005, replaced report, the Group Executive Risk Committee, whose by Mr P OSullivan with effect from January responsibilities are described in the Risk and Capital 2010, Mr N Andrews 2005, Mr R Bogni 2003, Management report earlier in this document: and the 15 152 2 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Group Capital Management Committee, whose role for statutory audit services 2008: 11.0 million, is, inter alia, to agree capital allocations within certain 0.5 million for other audit and assurance services limits or make recommendations to the Board relating to Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded regarding any allocations beyond such limits and to Value reporting 2008: 0.5 million, and 2.8 million approve the capital plan of the Group as part of the for tax and other services 2008: 4.3 million.
In addition to the above, Nedbank Group paid a further 2.9 million 2008: 2.6 million to Deloitte in Attendance record respect of joint audit arrangements.
The table below sets out the number of meetings held and individual directors attendance at meetings The following guidelines have been approved by of the Board and its principal committees based the Group Audit and Risk Committee as part of the on membership of those committees, rather than Groups policy on nonaudit services: attendance as an invitee during 2009.
Before accepting a proposed engagement to The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance provide a nonaudit service to the Group, the Director attended all, and the Chairman attended lead audit engagement partner and management all but one, of the Group Audit and Risk Committee will assess the threats to objectivity and meetings held during the year at the invitation of independence and consider safeguards to be the Chairman of that Committee but members of applied.
Such assessment will be repeated management were absent for the private sessions whenever the scope and objectives of the between members of that Committee and the nonaudit service change significantly.
The Group Chief Executive also attended accepting a proposed engagement to provide all and the Chairman attended all but one of the a nonaudit service to the Group, the audit Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation engagement partner and management will: of the Chairman of that Committee, but absented Consider whether it is probable that a themselves for any matters relating to their own reasonable and informed third party would respective remuneration arrangements.
Attendance regard the proposed engagement as being at Committee meetings by persons other than the inconsistent with the objectives of the audit of members is always at the invitation of the Chairman the financial statements of the Committee concerned.
Identify and assess the significance of any Auditors related threats to the firms objectivity, including During the year ended 31 December 2009, fees any perceived loss of independence: and paid by the Group to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and its associates totalled 11.9 million Board Group Audit scheduled and Risk Remuneration Nomination and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 11 5 5 7 Mr N Andrews 10 11 5 5 5 5 7 7 Mr M Arnold 4 4 1 1 Mr R Bogni 10 11 5 5 5 5 7 7 Mr P Broadley 11 11 Mr R Edey 11 11 5 5 5 5 7 7 Mr R Khoza 11 11 Mr B Nqwababa 11 11 5 5 Mr L Otterbeck 10 11 Mr R Pym 10 11 5 5 5 5 7 7 Mr J Roberts 11 11 7 7 Former director Mr C Collins 9 11 6 7 Mr Collins was unable to attend the last two Board Meetings of 2009 as he was indisposed following an operation.
Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 15 153 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd Identify and assess the effectiveness of the KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to available safeguards to eliminate or reduce continue in office as auditor to the Company and, threats to an acceptable level.
following a recommendation by the Group Audit and Risk Committee to the Board, a resolution proposing Where it is felt probable that an informed party its reappointment will be put to the AGM.
In reaching would regard the proposed service as being its decision to recommend the reappointment inconsistent with the objectives of the firm of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors, the Board took as auditors, the firm will not be permitted to into account the fact that the firm had been the undertake the nonaudit service.
Companys auditors since the Group demutualised The Company and its auditors have agreed in 1999 and that appropriate arrangements are that they will not directly or indirectly solicit the in place for the rotation and renewal of key audit employment of key senior staff and management personnel.
The Company has not entered into any of their respective organisations without prior contractual restriction preventing it from considering written mutual consent.
Partners and directors of a change of auditors and the choice of auditors is the audit firm who have acted as lead partner or kept under review by the Board from year to year, as a key audit partner for the Group will not be taking into account appropriate benchmarking data.
permitted to join Old Mutual Group as a director Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with or in a senior management position until at least KPMG Audit Plc, for appropriate audit partner or two years after the partner or director concerned director rotation in accordance with the requirements ceased to be associated with the audit.
of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
The current In addition, the following process governs the audit engagement director in the UK, Mr Alastair provision of nonaudit services by the auditors: Barbour, joined the audit team as a key audit director in 2005 and succeeded to his current role There is a schedule of nonaudit services which in 2008. need to be approved in principle on an annual basis and are reported, as and when provided, Internal control environment on a regular basis.
This is in line with the SECs Responsibility for internal control guidelines on auditor independence: The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its All nonaudit work costing less than 50,000 effectiveness, while the implementation of internal placed with the external auditors is to be control systems is the responsibility of management.
approved by the Head of Group Finance or Executive management has implemented an internal Business Unit Chief Financial Officer: control system designed to help ensure: All nonaudit work costing over 50,000 placed The effective and efficient operation of the Group with the external auditors is to be agreed by the and its business units by enabling management Group Finance Director or his designate: to respond appropriately to significant risks to All nonaudit work costing over 300,000 placed achieving the Groups business objectives: with the external auditors is to be subject to The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate competitive tender and agreed by the Group use or from loss and fraud and ensuring that Finance Director and Group Chief Executive: liabilities are identified and managed: All nonaudit work costing over 1 million placed The quality of inter final and external reporting: and with external auditors is to be approved by the Group Audit and Risk Committee: Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and with internal policies on the conduct of Cumulative fees for nonaudit services in any business.
financial quarter should not exceed 500,000 without approval of the Group Audit and Risk The system of internal control is designed to Committee or its Chairman: and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business objectives, and Cumulative fees for nonaudit work for the Group can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, should not exceed total statutory audit and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
auditrelated fees in any one year without the approval of the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
15 154 4 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Assessment of the system of internal control committed to having a robust internal control An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and environment across the Group.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group Group Internal Audit has been in place for the year ended 31 December Group Internal Audit GIA provides independent, 2009 and up to the date of approval of this Report.
objective assurance on the effectiveness of Old The process accords with the Turnbull guidance Mutuals systems of governance, risk management set out in Internal Control Guidance for Directors on and internal control.
The work of GIA is focused the Combined Code and is regularly reviewed by on the areas of greatest risk to Old Mutual as the Board.
determined by a comprehensive, riskbased The Groups actions to review the effectiveness of planning process.
The Group Audit and Risk the system of internal control include: Committee GARC approves the annual internal audit plan and any subsequent amendments.
An annual review of the risk assessment procedures, control environment considerations, There are internal audit teams in each of our major information and communication and monitoring businesses.
The heads of internal audit in our procedures at Group level and within each whollyowned subsidiaries report directly to the business unit.
This review covers all material Group Internal Audit Director GIAD.
The GIAD controls, including financial, operational and reports functionally to the Chairman of the GARC compliance controls and the risk management and administratively to the Group Finance Director.
systems: The GIAD attends all meetings of the GARC, and has unrestricted access to the Group Chief A certification process, under which all business Executive as well as open invitations to attend any units are required to confirm that they have meetings of the Business Unit Audit Committee and undertaken risk management in accordance of the Group Executive Risk Committee.
with the Group risk framework, that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of GIA teams across Old Mutual use a single audit internal controls, that internal policies have been methodology which meets the standards set by the complied with and that no significant risks or Institute of Internal Auditors.
Issues raised by GIA issues are known which have not been reported during the course of their work are communicated to in accordance with policy: management, who are responsible for taking action to address the issues identified within an appropriate Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the system and agreed timeframe.
of internal control by the Group Audit and Risk Committee, which receives reports from Group Formal reports are submitted by the GIAD to each Risk and Group Internal Audit.
The Committee meeting of the GARC, summarising the results of also receives reports from external auditors, internal audit activity, managements progress in KPMG Audit Plc, which include details of addressing issues and other significant matters.
significant internal control matters that they have Other Directors Report matters identified during the course of their work.
Relations with shareholders and analysts These activities are in addition to the regular risk The Company places great importance on management activities which are performed on an regular, clear and direct communication with ongoing basis as described in more detail in the its shareholders, institutional investors and Risk and Capital Management report elsewhere in sellside analysts.
The Chairman makes contact with major investors The certification process described above does during the year and meets them as required.
not apply to certain joint ventures where the Group The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations does not exercise full management control.
In team, which responds to a variety of enquiries these cases, Old Mutual monitors the internal from investors and analysts.
The team also control environment and the potential impact on the runs a programme to facilitate communication Group through representation on the board of the between executive management and a wide range entity concerned.
of institutional investors worldwide within the constraints of the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system and Transparency Rules.
These investors include of internal control during and at the end of the both debt and equity owners.
Our annual internal control assessment has not highlighted any material failings.
We remain Old Mutual increased the number of investor meetings by approximately 25% to 194 in 2009 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 15 155 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd compared to 2008.
These took place in the UK, The notice of AGM and related materials contained South Africa, North America and continental Europe in the Report and Accounts or Summary Financial and generally involved one or more of the Group Statements are sent out to shareholders in time Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or another to arrive in the ordinary course of the post at least member of the senior management team.
In 2009, 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
the Company targeted smaller institutional investors Directors shareholdings and share dealings and these who manage funds for high net worth The Remuneration Committee has established retail clients and charities with a view to diversifying guidelines on shareholdings by executive directors its shareholder base.
Under these, the Group Chief In addition, the Company presented at a number Executive is expected to build up a holding of shares of major investor conferences around the world.
in the Company equal in value to at least 150% of It also hosted three events for institutional investors annual base salary within five years of appointment: and analysts: a presentation on the Companys UK the equivalent figure for other executive directors platform business, which was given by members is 100% of annual base salary.
Further details of of UK management, a presentation on Nedbank by the executive directors shareholdings are set out its senior management team and a presentation by under Directors Interests earlier in this report and an independent analyst and economic adviser, who of their interests in awards under the Companys discussed the South African economy and outlook.
employee share plans are contained in the Copies of all presentations and, where appropriate, Remuneration Report.
The Board has considered transcripts are posted on the Companys website so whether to adopt a shareholding requirement for that they are accessible to shareholders generally.
nonexecutive directors, but does not consider this to be appropriate.
Currently 14 sellside analysts from the UK and South Africa actively publish research on the Directors indemnities Company.
Other sellside analysts are encouraged The Company has entered into formal deeds to cover the Company to help investors assess the of indemnity in favour of each of the directors.
Groups valuation, its performance and the business A specimen copy of the indemnities is available environment in which it operates, and also to make in the corporate governance section of the meaningful comparisons with peers.
The Board is updated regularly by the Investor Supplier payment policy Relations team on issues arising from any In most cases suppliers of goods or services to shareholder communications and from analyst the Group do so under standard terms of contract research.
that lay down terms of payment.
In other cases, specific terms are agreed to beforehand.
It is the General Meetings Groups policy to ensure that terms of payment are The Board uses the AGM to comment on the notified in advance and adhered to.
The Company Groups trading performance during the first quarter has signed the Better Payment Practice Code, an of the year.
A record of the AGM proceedings is initiative promoted by the Department for Business, made available on the Companys website shortly Innovation and Skills in the UK to encourage prompt after the end of the meeting.
All items of formal settlement of invoices.
business at the AGM are conducted on a poll, rather than by a show of hands.
The Companys registrars, The total outstanding indebtedness of the Company Computershare Investor Services, ensure that all and its service company subsidiary, Old Mutual validly submitted proxy votes are counted, and a Business Services Limited to trade creditors at senior member of Computershares staff acts as 31 December 2009 amounted to 3,867,555, scrutineer to ensure that votes cast are properly corresponding to 40 days payments when received and recorded.
Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt Charitable contributions with by a separate resolution and the business of The Group made a wide range of significant the AGM always includes a resolution relating to the donations to charitable causes and social approval of the Report and Accounts.
The chairmen development projects during 2009, as described of the Group Audit and Risk, Remuneration and in more detail in the Responsible Business section Nomination Committees are available to answer of this document.
The Company, its subsidiaries in any questions on the matters covered by these the UK, and the Old Mutual Bermuda Foundation Committees at AGMs.
All the directors in office at collectively made charitable donations of 195,000 the date of the meeting attended the AGM in 2009. during the year 2008: 672,000.
15 156 6 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Environmental matters treasury, but includes the shares held by the African A description of the Groups environmental impact life subsidiaries was 5,278,818,062. and management during 2009 is contained in the In the period 1 January to 10 March 2010, 1,200,752 Responsible Business section of this document.
further shares were issued by the Company under Political donations its employee share schemes at an average price The Group made no EU or other political donations of 93.46p each and 147,313,449 shares were during the year.
issued on 8 February 2010 as consideration for the acquisition by the Company of the minority interests Dividend policy not already owned by the Group in Mutual & Federal The Board is recommending the payment of a final Insurance Company Limited.
No further shares were dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of bought back during that period.
As a result, the 1.5p per share or its equivalent in other relevant Companys issued share capital at 10 March 2010 currencies.
Subject to approval at the 2010 AGM, had increased to 566,676,715.10 divided into a scrip dividend alternative will also be available for 5,666,767,151 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each eligible shareholders in relation to this dividend.
and the total number of voting rights at that date, The Board intends to pursue a dividend policy after deducting the 239,434,888 treasury shares, consistent with the Groups new strategy and having was 5,427,332,263. regard to overall capital requirements, liquidity and Rights and obligations attaching to shares profitability, and targeting dividend cover of a least The following description summarises certain 2.5 times IFRS AOP earnings over time.
provisions of the Companys current Articles of Share capital Association the Articles and applicable English The Company has a single class of share capital, law concerning companies now mainly enshrined which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 10 pence in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Companys issued share capital at summary only: for further information please see the 31 December 2009 was 551,825,295 divided into relevant provisions of the Act or the Articles.
5,518,252,950 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each Issue of shares 2008: 551,614,136 divided into 5,516,141,360 Subject to the Act and the Articles, shares may Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
During the year be issued with such rights and restrictions as the ended 31 December 2009, 2,111,590 shares were Company may by ordinary resolution approve or issued under the Companys employee share option as the directors may decide.
At each AGM the schemes at an average price of 91.18 pence each.
Company seeks authority from shareholders for the At 31 December 2009, shareholder authorities were directors to allot up to a certain amount of shares.
in force enabling the Company to make market Whenever shares are issued for cash, the Company purchases of, and or to purchase pursuant to must offer shares to all shareholders pro rata to contingent purchase contracts relating to each of their holdings, unless it has been given authority by the overseas exchanges on which the Companys shareholders to issue shares without applying such shares are listed, its own shares up to an aggregate preemption rights.
The Company seeks authority of 527,670,000 shares.
No shares were bought from its shareholders on an annual basis to issue up back by the Company during 2009. to 5% of its issued share capital without observing Out of the 5,518,252,950 shares in issue at preemption rights, in line with relevant regulations 31 December 2009: and best practice.
No shares were issued for cash in 2009 disapplying preemption rights, and the total 239,434,888 were held by the Company in number of shares issued disapplying preemption treasury rights by the Company over the last three years A total of 204,777,492 shares were held by amounted to less than 7.5% of the Companys African life subsidiaries of the Company, with issued share capital over that period.
190,284,758 of these shares held on books The Companys existing authorities to issue shares for the benefit of the Groups South African life and to do so without observing preemption rights operations and related businesses.
Under UK are due to expire at the end of this years AGM, but company law these shares cannot be voted while an ordinary resolution and a special resolution to they are held by subsidiaries of Old Mutual plc.
approve the renewal of these authorities respectively The total number of voting rights in the Companys will be put to shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
issued ordinary share capital at 31 December 2009 which excludes the 239,434,888 shares held in Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 15 157 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd Voting in any usual form or in any other form which the Every member attending a general meeting in Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer person has one vote in a show of hands.
In the case must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who The Board may decline to register a transfer of a tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other Is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown joint shareholders: seniority will be determined by the to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from order in which the joint holders names are listed in stamp duty and accompanied by the relevant the register.
Under the Act, members are entitled to share certificate and such other evidence of the appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights right to transfer it as the Board may reasonably to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a require general meeting.
Is in respect of only one class of share A member may appoint more than one proxy in If to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than relation to a general meeting provided that each four such transferees.
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
Repurchase of shares Proxies may vote in a poll or a show of hands.
Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in A member that is a corporation may appoint one accordance with the Act.
Any shares which have or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general been bought may be held as treasury shares or meeting as a corporate representative.
Where else must be cancelled immediately the purchase more than one corporate representative has been is completed, so reducing the amount of the appointed, any one of them is entitled to vote and Companys issued share capital.
No shares have exercise other powers on behalf of the member at a been repurchased by the Company since the AGM general meeting or class meeting.
There are currently no restrictions on the voting Amendment to the Articles of Association rights of any member of the Company.
Any amendments to the Articles of the Company The Articles provide a deadline for submission of may be made in accordance with the provisions of proxy forms by members of not less than 48 hours the Act by way of a special resolution.
New Articles before the relevant general meeting not excluding of Association, reflecting changes arising from the nonworking days.
full implementation of the Act and other recent Dividends and distributions company law changes are being proposed for Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company adoption at the AGM in 2010. may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare Appointment and replacement of directors dividends not exceeding the amount recommended Under the Articles, directors must be at least four by the Board.
The Board may pay dividends, and and not more than 16 in number.
Directors may be also any fixedrate dividend, whenever the financial appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution position of the Company justifies its payment, in the or by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board Boards opinion.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is holds office only until the next following AGM and is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari then eligible for election by the shareholders.
passu rights for losses arising from the payment of The Company may by special resolution remove interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
any director before the expiration of his or her term Transfer of shares of office.
Directors shall also vacate their office in Any shares in the Company may be held in certain customary circumstances specified in the uncertificated form and title to uncertificated shares Articles, including voluntary resignation in writing, may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
mental ill health or that director becoming bankrupt.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share Powers of the directors may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Subject to the Articles, any legislation and any Uncertificated Securities Regulations as defined in directions given by special resolution, the business the Articles and where, in case of a transfer to joint of the Company will be managed by the directors, holders, the number of joint holders to whom the who may exercise all the powers of the Company, uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
whether relating to the management of the business Any member may transfer all or any of their of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board certificated shares by an instrument of transfer may exercise all the powers of the Company to 15 158 8 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its the economic interests of the Holders are not undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital adversely affected by the actions of the Acquirer and to issue debentures and other securities and following the change of control.
give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Substantial interests in voting rights Company to any third party.
At 10 March 2010, the following substantial Shares held in employee benefit trusts interests in voting rights had been declared to the The shareholdings in the Company of the Groups Company in accordance with the Disclosure and employee benefit trusts and the policies of those Transparency Rules: trusts on voting those shares are described in Number of % of voting rights voting rights the section of the Remuneration Report entitled Employee share ownership trusts.
Alliance Bernstein 442,093,506 8.15 Significant agreements Public Investment The following significant agreements to which the Corporation of the Company is a party contain provisions entitling Republic of South Africa 307,212,664 5.66 counterparties to exercise termination or other rights Cevian Capital 302,103,832 5.57 in the event of a change of control of the Company: Sanlam Investment 1,250 million Revolving Credit Facility the Facility Management Pty Limited 208,685,625 3.85 dated 2 September 2005 between the Company, Legal & General various syndicate banks the Banks and Lloyds Group Plc 203,844,712 3.76 TSB Bank plc as agent the Agent.
If a person Old Mutual Life or group of persons acting in concert gains control Assurance Company of the Company, the Company must notify the South Africa Limited 192,049,630 3.54 Agent.
The Agent and the Company will negotiate with a view to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to the Company and all of the Banks Going concern for continuing the Facility.
If such negotiations The Groups business activities, together with factors fail within 30 days of the original notification to likely to affect its future development, performance the Agent by the Company, the Banks become and position are set out in the Business Review.
entitled to declare any outstanding indebtedness The financial position of the Group, its cash repayable by giving notice to the Agent within flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 15 days of the 30day period mentioned above.
described in the Group Finance Directors Statement.
On receiving notice for payment from the Agent, In addition, section E of the notes to the financial the Company shall pay the outstanding sums statements includes the Groups objectives, policies within three business days to the relevant Bank s and processes for managing its capital and set out details of the risks related to financial instruments and Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. the Issuer insurance risks taken on by the Group.
$750 million 8% Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities the Preferred Securities guaranteed on a subordinated basis by the Company.
Under the terms of the Preferred Securities, the Issuer is required to give notice to the holders of such securities the Holders in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In such case the Issuer and the Company agree, to the extent that such action is within their reasonable control, to vary the terms of the Preferred Securities and the Companys guarantee and to use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that the entity that has acquired control of the Company the Acquirer gives such undertakings as are necessary in order to preserve the rights of the Holders.
The Issuer and the Company shall also take such steps as are in their reasonable control to ensure that Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc 15 159 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read GOVERNANCE diRECtORs REPORt ON CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE ANd OthER mAttERs CONtiNuEd The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements and daytoday liquidity needs through the Groups available credit facilities.
The Companys existing revolving current facility of 1.25 billion does not mature until September 2012.
After making enquiries, the Board of Directors has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Disclosure of information to the auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
Governing law The Group Chief Executives Statement, the Risk and Capital Management report, the Business Review, the Group Finance Directors Statement and this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters collectively comprise the directors report for the purposes of section 463 i a of the Companies Act 2006.
The Remuneration Report set out in this document is the directors remuneration report for the purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
English law governs the disclosures contained in and liability for the directors report and the directors remuneration report.
By order of the Board Martin Murray Group Company Secretary 11 March 2010 16 160 0 Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
