GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 36 Corporate governance The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate All of the non-executive directors are independent of governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They are kept Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and in June 2008.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2009 the bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
Prior to 1 October 2008 the Board approved a set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and agreed a process to identify Directors and authorise any conflicts which might arise.
At each meeting of the Board actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any At the beginning of the year the Board of Directors comprised the director are reviewed.
Chairman, four executive and four non-executive directors.
During the year Pawan Pandya an executive director and All directors have access to the advice and services of the David Beever an independent non-executive director resigned Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring and Alan Fletcher was appointed as an independent that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment non-executive director.
and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience.
In accordance with the Code, all directors All directors are able to take independent professional advice in will submit themselves for re-election at least once in every three the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered years.
The names of the directors in office at the date of this appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing report and their biographical details are set out on pages 12 professional development opportunities as are identified as and 13. appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief The Board also operates through a number of committees Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by covering certain specific matters, these being: the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the The Remuneration Committee, which during the year Board, including Terence Eccles, who has been nominated as the consisted of Edward Tilly who chaired the Committee from Senior Independent Director.
This provides effective balance and 5 February 2009, Terence Eccles who chaired the challenge.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, for Committee until 5 February 2009, Christopher Newell from approving major agreements, transactions and other financing 25 February 2009, Alan Fletcher following his appointment matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against to the Board on 25 February 2009, David Beever until his budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information on retirement from the Board on 5 February 2009, and the financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
At the year end there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the the members of the Remuneration Committee were Edward Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, Tilly, Terence Eccles, Christopher Newell, Alan Fletcher all granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and of whom are independent non-executive directors and the executive directors, determination and approval of the Robert Dench.
Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment During the year ended 30 September 2009 there were five decisions, corporate governance policies and financial and meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
All meetings were dividend policies.
attended by Edward Tilly, Terence Eccles and Robert Dench, The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the all four meetings held following his appointment to the biographical details on page 12 and there have been no Committee were attended by Christopher Newell, two of the significant changes during the period to those commitments.
four meetings held following his appointment to the Committee were attended by Alan Fletcher and the one Normally, there are nine regular Board meetings a year with other meeting held prior to his retirement from the Board was meetings being held as required.
Robert Dench, Nigel Terrington, attended by David Beever.
Nicholas Keen, John Heron and Christopher Newell attended all Further information about the Remuneration Committee is of the nine regular Board meetings during the year ended given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on 30 September 2009, Terence Eccles and Edward Tilly attended Directors Remuneration on pages 23 to 32. eight meetings, David Beever attended two out of the three The Audit and Compliance Committee, which during the year meetings held prior to the date of his retirement from the Board, consisted of Christopher Newell, who chaired the Pawan Pandya attended the one meeting held prior to his Committee, Terence Eccles, Edward Tilly, Alan Fletcher resignation and Alan Fletcher attended five out of the six following his appointment to the Board on 25 February 2009 meetings held following his appointment to the Board.
36 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 37 C and David Beever until his retirement from the Board on The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, 5 February 2009.
The Board is satisfied that all members of who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and three nonthe Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
executive directors, Christopher Newell, Edward Tilly and The Committee meets at least three times per year.
It Alan Fletcher following his appointment to the Committee on monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, 25 February 2009, ensuring that a majority of the reviews the Groups internal control and risk management Committees members are independent non-executive systems, monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the directors.
David Beever was also a member of the Committee Groups internal audit function, monitors the relationship until his retirement from the Board on 5 February 2009.
The between the Group and the external auditors and provides a Committee is convened as required to nominate candidates forum through which the Groups external and internal audit for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility functions report to the non executive directors.
The for appointment rests with the Board.
There was one meeting Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the system of the Nomination Committee during the year ended and controls for regulatory compliance are effective.
30 September 2009, which was attended by Robert Dench, Nigel Terrington, Edward Tilly and Christopher Newell to The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews the scope and consider the appointment of a new independent nonthe results of the annual external audit, its cost effectiveness executive director.
The Committee only engages in the and the independence and objectivity of the external process of identification of suitable candidates auditors.
In recommending the re-appointment of the for appointment to the Board when requested by the Board to external auditors to the Board, the Committee have do so.
considered their performance and the requirements of the Groups financial control process and have concluded that the There is a formal process for the appointment of directors, needs of the Group would not be best served by putting the starting with a review of the Board structure, size and external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has composition, leading to the preparation of a written job not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of specification and the identification of suitable candidates.
Nomination Committee ensures that prospective nonexecutive directors can devote sufficient time to the Both the Audit and Compliance Committee and the external appointment.
The Board recognises the benefits that can flow auditors have in place safeguards to avoid compromises of from non-executive directors holding other appointments but the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before The Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its entering into any commitments that might affect the time they external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The policy is can devote to the Company.
The choice of appointee would designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be be based entirely on merit.
provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors In recruiting the non-executive director appointed during the opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy year the Committee did not consider it necessary to utilise the incorporates a comprehensive system for reporting to services of an external search consultancy or to openly the Audit and Compliance Committee all proposals advertise the vacancy for a non-executive director because a considered and the level of fees payable to the external suitable candidate had been identified from other sources.
auditors for the provision of non-audit services.
In pursuance The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of appropriate of this policy other accounting firms have been engaged for heads of functions and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief particular assignments.
It meets regularly and monitors Group liquidity At each meeting the Audit and Compliance Committee risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and treasury receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the counterparty exposures.
Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate senior compliance functions.
executives and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance The Chairman, the executive directors, Director of Financial Director.
It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing Accounting and Group Company Secretary, Director of credit policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
Business Analysis and Planning, Director of Legal Services, All Board committees operate within defined terms of reference Head of Internal Audit and a partner from the external and sufficient resources are made available to them to undertake auditors normally attend meetings of the Committee.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration During the year ended 30 September 2009 there were three Committee, Audit and Compliance Committee and Nomination meetings of the Audit and Compliance Committee, all of Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
which were attended by Christopher Newell and Terence Eccles, two of which were attended by Edward Tilly and by The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under Alan Fletcher following his appointment to the Committee review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate and one of which was attended by David Beever.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 37 GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 38 C balance of power and authority between executive and nonbusiness hours and provides an opportunity for directors to executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the report to investors on the Groups activities and to answer their skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote Groups business activities.
separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balance for and against each resolution is There is an established process for external appointments announced.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have a full appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Nonprogramme of meetings with institutional investors during the executive appointments are based upon the candidates profiles course of the year and investors comments are communicated to matching those drawn up by the Nomination Committee.
In all all members of the Board.
cases the Board approves the appointment only after The Companys web site at www.
co. uk provides careful consideration.
access to information on the Company and its businesses.
The Board, individual directors and Board committees are appraised annually.
The performance of the Chief Executive is Accountability and audit appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are business lines are included within the Chairmans Statement and presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses these, together with determination of remuneration.
the Directors Report on pages 14 to 18 to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position During the year the Board conducted a formal and rigorous and prospects.
performance review, which was effected by all Board directors considering a list of questions on Board and Committee The directors responsibility for the financial statements is performance, followed by a Board discussion facilitated by described on page 33. the Chairman.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm to significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any nonby the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September executive director, that, following formal performance evaluation, 2009, and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors the individuals performance continues to be effective and confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups demonstrates commitment to the role.
system of internal control for this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: The non-executive directors meet at least annually to review the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a Directors remuneration system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide executive directors and members of senior management prior to reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of determining its recommendations on annual remuneration, material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded performance bonuses and share options for the Boards against unauthorised use or disposition.
constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits from particular aspects The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors of the control system.
Remuneration is on pages 23 to 32.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel Relations with shareholders matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised The Board encourages communication with the Companys budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and which the directors and committee chairmen are available for senior management.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during 38 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:02 Page 39 C The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance Note 5 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk working capital position and policies, while note 6 includes a management process, from which the key risks facing the detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial business are identified.
The process results in reports to the instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical programme of regular presentations from senior management to accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 4. relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
As described under Accountability and Audit above, the Group The system of internal control is monitored by management and has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review, by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of which provides information to the directors which is used to greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit its business objectives.
work plan is approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Substantially all of the Groups remaining loan portfolios are Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of funded through securitisation structures and are thus matchinternal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
None of the Groups debt matures before 2017, when the 110 million corporate bond is repayable.
As a consequence the directors believe that the Group is well placed Going concern basis to manage its business risks successfully despite the current The business activities of the Group, its current operations and uncertain economic outlook.
those factors likely to affect its future results and development, After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable together with a description of its financial position and funding expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to position, are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For 6 and Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 11.
The principal this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to preparing the annual report and accounts.
mitigate against these risks are described on pages 40 to 41.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 39
