Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance The Directors present their Directors Report including the Business BUSINESS REVIEW Review and the report on Corporate Governance together with the The Company is required by the Companies Act to set out a Consolidated Audited Accounts for the Group prepared under IFRS business review for shareholders to provide a fair review of the for the year ended 30 April 2009. business of the Group during the financial year to 30 April 2009, the position of the group at the end of the year and a description PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND STATUS of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Company is established under the UK Companies Act as an Full details of the Investment Managers activities and its views are investment company defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act given in the Investment Managers Report.
The Company is structured as a public limited company with that the Chairmans Report and the Investment Managers Report its shares listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
when read in conjunction with the information provided in the The business of the Company is to provide shareholders with access Directors report fulfils the requirements of the business review and to a discretionary managed portfolio of technology stocks and give a comprehensive analysis of the development and shares selected on a worldwide basis.
The companys investment performance of the business of the Company and the position of portfolio is a long-only fund which means that it buys and holds the Company at the end of the financial year.
shares to seek appreciation in their value and consequently in the Net Asset Value of the company.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook for The company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a way as to technology and the Company will continue to pursue its investment meet the tests set down in Section 842 of the Income and objective in accordance with the stated investment policy and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and thus retrospectively qualify on an strategy.
The outlook for the future performance is dependent to a annual basis as an investment trust.
This qualification permits the significant degree on the worlds financial markets and their accumulation of capital within the portfolio without any liability to reactions to economic events and other geo-political forces.
HM Revenue & Customs approval of the Chairmans Report and the Investment Managers Report companys status as an investment trust has been received in comment on the outlook.
respect of the year ended 30 April 2008 subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry into the companys tax return.
INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE, POLICY AND STRATEGY The Directors are of the opinion that the company has and will Objective and policy continue to conduct its affairs so as to enable the Directors each The Companys investment objective has since formation been, year to seek approval as an investment trust.
and will continue to be, to maximise long-term capital growth for shareholders through investing in a diversified portfolio of The company has no employees or premises and has contracted to technology companies around the world.
service providers the functions of the Company.
The Board is comprised of non-executive Directors.
The day to day operations of Technology may be defined as the application of scientific the company have been delegated to third parties.
The company knowledge for practical purposes and technology companies are has one subsidiary, PCT Finance Limited a wholly owned dealing defined accordingly.
While this offers a very broad and dynamic Company whose results are consolidated with the Parent Company.
investing universe and covers many different companies, the portfolio will be focused on technology companies which use technology or which develop and supply technological solutions as a core part of their business models.
This includes areas as diverse as information, media, communications, environmental, healthcare and renewable energy, as well as the more obvious applications such as computing and associated industries.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 21 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued Rationale Market parameters The Directors believe that the rationale for this objective continues Not withstanding the ability to invest up to 100% of the portfolio to be valid.
Over the last two decades the technology industry has in any one market, with current and foreseeable investment been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly growing segments conditions the portfolio will be invested in accordance with the of the global economy.
Technology companies offer the potential objective across worldwide markets within the following for substantially faster earnings growth than the broad market, geographical and markets parameters: reflecting the long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
North America up to 85% of the portfolio: Europe up to 40% of the portfolio: Strategy Japan and Asia up to 55% of the portfolio: The Company invests its technology assets in a portfolio comprised primarily of international quoted equities which is diversified across Rest of the world up to 10% of the portfolio.
both regions and sectors within the overall investment objective to The Board has set an aggregate limit of 25% of the portfolio that may manage investment risk.
be exposed to emerging markets as defined by the MSCI Emerging Investment approach Markets Index with specific upper limits for certain countries.
Equities are selected on the basis of their potential for shareholder Largest investment returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
Rigorous The largest single investment that may be held in the portfolio is fundamental analysis is applied with a focus on: limited to 5% of the portfolio at the time of acquisition, except for management quality: US and UK government bonds, which might be used as part of the the identification of new growth markets: cash management process.
the globalisation of major technology trends: and Unquoted investments exploiting international valuation anomalies and sector volatility.
Investment in unquoted companies may be made from time to Asset allocation time where there has been prior Board approval.
These investments The portfolio is constructed without specific reference to any in aggregate will not exceed 10% of the portfolio, in each case individual market, index or benchmark and the Board regularly measured at the time of investment.
The maximum exposure to any one Derivatives market may be 100% but the Board has agreed a set of parameters The Investment Manager may also use from time to time derivative which are based upon current market conditions and provides a instruments as approved by the Board such as financial futures, range which guides the Investment Manager depending on market options, and currency hedges.
These are used for the purpose of conditions and future expectations.
The Board believes this provides efficient portfolio management.
the necessary flexibility for the Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, given the dynamic and rapid changes in the Cash and borrowings field of technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
From time to time the Company may hold cash or near cash equivalents if the Investment Manager feels that these will at a particular time As well as the market parameters shown below, the Board also or over a period enhance the performance of the portfolio.
The monitors the portfolios exposure to different sub-sectors within management of cash is through the purchase of appropriate technology and the spread of investments across different market government bonds, money market funds or bank deposits depending capitalisations.
Cyclical changes in markets and new technologies on the Investment Managers view of the investment opportunities.
will bring certain sub-sectors or companies of a particular size or market capitalization into or out of favour.
The Company may also borrow money to invest in the portfolio over both the long and short term.
Any commitment to borrow funds is However, the Board expects the Investment Manager to consider agreed by the Board.
Borrowings may be in currencies which best the composition of the performance fee benchmark and use this to match the currency in which the investments are denominated.
The measure performance and analyse under and out performance.
constitution of the Company permits borrowings of up to 100% of 22 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC KEY PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES net assets but the limits agreed by the Board set a range of up to The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the 20% at the time of drawing the relevant borrowings.
Investment Manager as the key supplier of services to the Company PERFORMANCE against key performance indicators KPIs.
The objectives At the year end the portfolio comprised of 120 investments with comprise both specific financial and shareholder related measures.
the single largest investment being Apple representing 3.9% by The provision of investment return to shareholders as measured book cost or 5.2% when investment value is used.
The portfolio by long-term NAV growth, and relative performance against the analysis on pages 14 to 16 provides details on the distribution of benchmark and technology indices.
investments by market capitalisation, the different sectors in the different principal geographies and all the investments which Monitoring and reacting to issues created by the discount or individually represented more than 0.75% of net assets.
premium of the share price to the NAV per share with the aim of The Company had Japanese Yen borrowings of 4.01bn 27.5m reduced discount volatility for shareholders.
at the year end which were used to finance investment in Japan To qualify and meet the requirements for Section 842 of the and 3.2bn 21.9m cash balances were held at the year end.
This Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 which has been facility falls due for repayment in June 2010. achieved in each year since launch.
The Company had arrangements up to December 2008 for a shortThe Companys NAV has over the last year outperformed the Dow term multicurrency facility of up to 20m.
This was unused during Jones World Technology Index for the reasons explained in the the year and not renewed.
Chairmans Report and the Investment Managers Report.
Over the The changes in the share price, net asset value, benchmark and longer term NAV growth has outperformed the Dow Jones World major world wide indices over the financial year are shown in the Technology Index as shown in the Historic Performance table on Highlights on page 2. page 64.
A review and commentary on the investment activities this year The discount of the share price to the NAV per share over the year and the Investment Managers comments and the outlook for has ranged from a maximum of 30% to a minimum of 11%.
The technology shares are given in the Chairmans Report on pages 3 Company bought back 6,011,000 shares in the year to 30 April and 4 and the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 13.
2009, all of which were cancelled, uplifting NAV per share by 1.6p.
Movement in Net Asset Value total return per share Over the year to 30 April 2009 the Net Asset value per share fell ASSETS 4.4% compared to the fall in the Benchmark, the Dow Jones World At 30 April 2009 the total net assets of the Group amounted to Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted of 5.5%.
The p per share net asset value per share fell by 4.4% from 226.72p to 216.75p.
NAV per share at 30 April 2008 226.72 %% REVENUE AND DIVIDENDS Benchmark performance -5.5 The gross revenue return for the year was 3,720,000 2008: Portfolio performance vs Benchmark 1.1 3,815,000 and the net revenue profit after taxation amounted to from asset allocation -0.2 566,000 2008: loss 1,354,000.
The total return for the year from stock selecton 1.4 amounted to a loss after tax of 17,285,000 2008: loss 19,792,000. due to net gearing 0.4 The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
due to share buy backs 0.7 due to management fees BENCHMARK and finance costs -1.2 The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World Technology Perfomance of NAV -4.4 -9.97 Index total return, Sterling adjusted against which NAV performance NAV per share at 30 April 2009 216.75 is measured for the purpose of assessing performance fees.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 23 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued As at 30 April 2009 the Dow Jones World Technology Index was Technology stocks also have greater relative price volatility and calculated as a market capitalization based index of 479 are subject to the risks of developing technologies, competitive technology companies worldwide.
72% of the index weighting is in pressures and other factors including the acceptance of new North America, 9% in Europe and 19% in Asia Pacific.
By market technologies and rapid obsolescence.
capitalisation 70% is represented by large companies, 25% by Many companies in the technology sector are smaller mid-caps and 5% by smaller companies.
companies and are therefore subject to the risks attendant on Although the Company has a benchmark, this is neither a target investing in smaller capitalisation businesses.
nor an ideal investment strategy.
The purpose of the benchmark is There is significant exposure to the economic cycles of Europe, to set a reasonable return for shareholders above which the Asia and the US as these are the major investment markets for Investment Manager is entitled to a share of the extra performance technology stocks.
A small element of the investment portfolio is invested into The Company was established with a performance fee benchmark of unlisted securities.
These investments are made where they offer the FTSE World Index capital return.
This was changed in May 2000 specialist management or investment opportunities which to a composite benchmark and the components of the benchmark would otherwise not be available.
At the year-end this amounted were kept under review by the Board.
The Board decided that with to less than 0.5%.
effect from 1 May 2006 the benchmark should change to the Dow Jones World Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted.
This The Board has regard to the degree of risk which the Investment single index as a benchmark should provide shareholders with a Manager incurs in order to generate the investment returns and more readily available and understandable measure and is also in the effect of gearing on the portfolio by borrowed funds which can keeping with those used by the Companys peer group.
magnify the portfolio returns per share positively or negatively.
There is a second group of business risks in the form of legal, BUSINESS RISKS accounting and regulatory requirements.
These include qualification In delivering long-term returns to shareholders the identification on an annual basis as an investment trust, compliance with the FSAs and monitoring of risk is crucial.
In addition to the detailed internal Listing Rules and Transparency and Disclosure Rules, the provisions controls set out in the Corporate Governance Report the Board of the Companies Act requirements and other legislation affecting seeks to identify, assess and monitor risks to the business.
UK companies and compliance with accounting standards.
These relate primarily to economic uncertainties and its particular The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market sphere of activity of investing in worldwide stock markets.
prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and liquidity The appropriateness of the investment mandate and strategy is are set out in note 29 to the accounts.
The other business risks are considered as this may lead to a depressed share price as managed through regular reporting to the Board on the investors seek alternative investments or low risk strategies.
diversification of portfolio, market and sector views, analytical performance data and attribution presented by the Investment As the Companys assets comprise mainly listed equities the Manager.
The Board also receives financial information on the principal risks to the performance of the business are market Company and discusses the share register and share price related.
The principal risks are investment and market price, performance at each meeting.
The Board in consultation with the credit, liquidity, foreign currency and interest rates.
Investment Manager considers all these reports and reviews the While the portfolio is diversified across a number of stock strategy.
Any investment in unquoted companies or funds is markets worldwide, the investment mandate is focused on approved by the Directors before the investment is made.
technology and thus the portfolio will be more sensitive to Information and guidance on the second group of risks is managed investor sentiment and the commercial acceptance of by the use of professional advisers, the taking of advice when technological developments than a general investment portfolio.
necessary and reports submitted to the Board.
24 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND The Board on the recommendation of the Management MANAGEMENT OF THE PORTFOLIO Engagement Committee has concluded that on the basis of As the Company is an investment vehicle for shareholders the longer-term performance it is in the best interests of shareholders Directors have sought to ensure that the business of the Company as a whole that the appointment of Polar Capital LLP as is managed by a leading specialist investment management team Investment Manager is continued on the existing terms.
and that the investment strategy remains attractive to shareholders.
Fee arrangements The Directors believe that a strong working relationship with the Management fee investment management team will achieve the optimum return for 1% based on net asset value plus borrowings, on a per share shareholders and to this end value the inclusion on the Board of Mr basis, payable quarterly in arrears.
Any investments in funds Ashford-Russell.
managed by Polar Capital are wholly excluded from the base management fee calculation.
Investment team The Investment Manager is Polar Capital Limited Liability Performance fee Partnership, which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority Performance periods will coincide with the Companys Polar Capital.
Under the terms of the investment management agreement Polar Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount by which Capital provides investment management, accounting, company the increase in the adjusted Net Asset Value per share exceeds secretarial and administrative services.
It has also procured the the total return on the Dow Jones World Technology Index total provision of a share savings plan and ISA accounts for the return, Sterling adjusted multiplied by the time weighted Companys shares from BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Ltd. average of the number of shares in issue during that period, subject to a high water mark.
Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists led by Ben Rogoff, who is supported by Craig Mercer and Nick Evans.
Each The Net Asset Value per share Adjusted NAV per share is member focuses on specific areas and the team is supported by a adjusted for the purposes of the performance fee calculation by research analyst.
Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio and adding back any accruals for unpaid performance fees, any looks after the US market.
Polar Capital also has other specialist and dividends paid or payable by reference to the performance geographically focused investment teams which contribute to ideas period and the removal of any benefit of share buy backs.
High water mark the performance fee will only be payable if, Termination arrangements and to the extent that, the Adjusted NAV per share exceeds the The investment management agreement may be terminated by highest of: either party by giving 12 months notice, but under certain the NAV per share on the last day of the previous circumstances the Company may be required to pay up to one performance period: years management charges if immediate notice is given and the Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of a performance compensation will be on a sliding scale if less than 12 months period in respect of which a performance fee was last paid: notice is given.
255.88 pence per share, this being the Adjusted NAV per Continued appointment share as at 30 April 2006 when the current performance fee The Board through the Management Engagement Committee arrangements became effective.
has reviewed the performance of the Investment Manager in Any performance fee accrual will be calculated monthly and managing the portfolio over the longer-term.
The review also included in the month end net asset value calculated in considered the quality of the other services provided by the accordance with the AIC guidelines.
The performance fee which can be paid by the Company in any one performance period is capped at 2% of net assets.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 25 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued In the event of a termination of the investment management Number of Percentage of ordinary shares voting rights agreement, the date the agreement is terminated will be deemed to be the end of the relevant performance period and Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management 7,168,186 5.67% indirect any performance fee payable shall be calculated as at that date.
Prudential plc group 6,143,000 4.86% direct Management fees of 2,904,000 have been paid for the year to 30 April 2009 2008: 3,567,000.
No performance fee was earned Legal & General Group plc 5,035,261 3.98% direct or paid in the year 2008: Nil.
The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified to the issued ordinary share capital at CAPITAL STRUCTURE 11 June 2009 of 126,497,914 shares.
The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each and at the year-end there were 126,497,914 shares in issue Directors share interests 2008: 132,508,914.
Voting rights are exercised on a show of The interests of Directors in the shares of the Company at 30 April hands at a meeting, or on a poll, where each share has one vote.
2009 and 30 April 2008 are as follows: Details for the lodging of proxy votes are given when a notice of Ordinary Shares meeting is given.
There are no restrictions on the transferability of Beneficial: 30 April 2009 30 April 2008 the shares and the Company is not aware of any arrangements R Wakeling 18,000 18,000 which may result in such agreements.
B Ashford-Russell 250,000 250,000 The Board was granted by shareholders at the AGM in 2008 the P Dicks 30,000 30,000 power to allot up to a nominal value 1,656,361 of equity securities D Gamble 5,902 5,902 and to issue those shares for cash without offering those shares to M Moule 7,000 7,000 shareholders in accordance with their statutory pre-emption rights.
R Montagu 8,500 8,500 It is the Boards policy not to allot and issue new shares below net Non-beneficial: asset value.
These powers will last until the AGM in 2009.
These P Dicks 1,057 1,057 powers have not been used and renewal of the authorities will be sought at the AGM in 2009.
There have been no changes in these interests between the end of the financial year and 11 June 2009.
The Board was also granted shareholder authority at the AGM in 2008 to make market purchases of up to 19,863,000 shares of the LIFE OF THE COMPANY company for cancellation in accordance with the terms and conditions The Articles of Association of the Company provide that at the set out in the shareholder resolution.
This power remains in force Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, and at until the AGM in 2009.
During the financial year to 30 April 2009 every fifth Annual General Meeting thereafter, a vote on whether the 467,000 shares were purchased and cancelled under the Company should continue will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
shareholder resolution granted at the AGM in 2007 and 5,544,000 shares have been purchased and cancelled under the 2008 AGM THE PAYMENT OF CREDITORS authority.
The Directors have the power to purchase up to a further It has been and will remain the Companys policy for the 14,319,000 shares under the 2008 authority which will last until the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business AGM on 29 July 2009. and therefore there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In Major interests in shares general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which As at 11 June 2009 notices for the purposes of part 5 of the FSAs business will take place and it is the Companys policy to abide by Disclosure and Transparency Rules had been received of the such terms.
There were no trade creditors at 30 April 2009. following major interests in the voting rights of the Company.
26 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC SERVICE PROVIDERS The AGM also provides an opportunity for shareholders to hear a Apart from the arrangements with Polar Capital LLP to provide presentation from the Investment Manager and meet the Directors.
investment, company secretarial and administrative services including accounting, portfolio valuation and trade settlement, the REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Company also contracts directly with JP Morgan Chase NA which acts The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the governance as global custodian for all the Companys investments.
The Company of the Companys affairs.
The Company is subject to the 2006 also retains the services of Cenkos Securities plc as corporate broker, Combined Code on Corporate Governance as published by the Equiniti formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars as the registrars and Financial Reporting Council Combined Code and abides by the  LLP as auditors.
HSBC Securities Services AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code.
Copies of these UK Limited has been retained by the Investment Manager to codes can be obtained from the relevant organisations and their provide the accounting, valuation and trade settlement services and details are given in the share holder information section of this BNP Paribas Fund Services Limited is retained by the Investment report.
The Companys policies on Corporate Governance can be Manager, on behalf of the Company and at the Companys found on its website.
expense, to provide a share savings arrangement and an ISA.
The Corporate Governance Report describes how the principles of Huguenot Services Limited provide web design and hosting services.
the Combined Code and the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the AIC have been applied.
AUDITORS  LLP have expressed their willingness to Background and development continue in office as the Companys Statutory Auditors.
A The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the AIC Code of Corporate Governance by reference to the AIC the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all The fees paid to the Auditors in respect of the audit of the annual the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as accounts amounted to 28,000 2008: 26,000.
The Company setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues has also used  LLP to give advice on VAT that are of specific relevance to the Company.
recoverability, Section 842, and other taxation issues.
These other taxation services are provided by the Newcastle office while the The Board considers that reporting against the principles and audit work is carried out by the Edinburgh and London offices.
recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code will provide better The fees paid for the taxation advice services amounted to 25,000 information to shareholders.
The Directors do not consider the provision of this non-audit work to the Company affects the independence of the Application of the AIC codes principles Auditors.
The Board attaches great importance to the matters contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant requirements throughout ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the year under review.
The Board believes that the Companys The Annual General Meeting will be held on 29 July 2009 at 12.30pm current practices are consistent in all material respects with the at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall London SW1Y 5HS.
principles of the AIC Code and where non compliance occurs, an explanation will be provided.
The Board will continue to observe the The separate Notice of Meeting contains resolutions to receive the principles and recommendations set out in the AIC Code in future.
accounts, approve the Directors remuneration report, re-appoint retiring Directors, re-appoint the auditors and empower the It should be noted that, as an investment trust where the Directors Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the Directors are are non-executive, most of the Companys day to day duties are seeking powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares for delegated to third parties.
The Company has agreed policies and cancellation.
The full text of the resolutions and an explanation of operating procedures with the suppliers of these services.
each is contained in the Notice of Meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 27 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued Directors and Board: independence and composition Mr Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP and a The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management shareholder in Polar Capital Holdings plc, the ultimate holding of the Companys affairs and currently consists of six non-executive company of Polar Capital LLP and as such he has an interest in the Directors five of whom are considered independent.
All the investment management contract.
He is therefore not considered Directors held office throughout the year.
to be an independent Director.
However, the Board values the fact that Mr Ashford-Russell, although no longer actively involved in the Each Director has different qualities and areas of expertise on day to day management of the portfolio, serves as a Director of the which they may lead where issues arise.
The Directors biographies, Company and gives the Directors and shareholders the benefit of on page 20, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial his experience and knowledge.
and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director and has no conflicting relationships.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 34 and 35.
The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity and Mr Gamble and Mr Moule have a common directorship of another believes that retaining Directors with sufficient experience of the investment trust but this is not considered to affect their ability to Company, industry and the markets is of great benefit to act independently.
The Board also recognises the value of progressive No Director, except Mr Brian Ashford-Russell, has any links with the refreshing of and succession planning for company boards.
Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There were no other Accordingly the appointment of each Director retiring at the contracts during or at the end of the year in which a Director of the forthcoming AGM has been reviewed by the Nomination Company is or was materially interested and which is or was Committee prior to submission for re-appointment.
significant in relation to the Companys business.
The Boards policy on tenure for Directors states that, in line with The Nomination Committee, as part of the Director and Board the Combined Code, any Director who has served for over nine performance evaluation, has carefully reviewed and rigorously years should stand for annual re-appointment.
The Board is of the assessed the contribution of each Director standing for opinion that long service does not necessarily compromise the reappointment and their independence.
They have determined independence or contribution of Directors of investment trusts that each Director continued to offer relevant experience, where continuity and experience can significantly benefit a board.
effectively contributed to the operation of the Board and had Four Directors stand for re-appointment at the AGM in 2009 and the demonstrated independent views on a range of subjects.
Nomination Committee of the Board has considered each Director.
All the Directors, with the exception of Mr Ashford-Russell, were Under the provisions of the Articles of Association Mr David considered independent of the Investment Manager and had no Gamble stands for re-appointment at the AGM in 2009 as this will relationship or conflicts which were likely to affect their judgment.
be the third AGM since he was last re-appointed.
Mr Gamble was The Board, on the recommendations of the Nomination appointed to the Board in 2002.
Committee, supports each of the Directors standing for reMr Richard Wakeling and Mr Peter Dicks stand for annual reappointment and considers that the overall composition of the appointment in line with the corporate governance policy as each Board is adequate for the effective governance of the Company.
has served more than nine years.
They were both appointed to the Further, the Board considers itself independent as five of its Board in 1996.
Directors are independent of the Investment Manager, despite two of those Directors having served for more than nine years.
Mr Brian Ashford-Russell, who has also been on the Board for more than nine years, stands for annual re-appointment as required by the Listing Rules due to his association with the Investment Manager.
Mr Ashford-Russell has been a Director since 1996.
28 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Conflicts of interests Role and responsibilities Following the introduction of the provisions of the Companies Act Six scheduled Board meetings are held each year to deal with the 2006 the Act on 1 October 2008, which imposes a duty on stewardship of the Company and other matters including the directors to avoid a situation in which they have or could have a setting and monitoring of investment strategy and performance, conflict of interest or possible conflict with the interests of the review of financial statements, approval of borrowing limits within Company, the Company introduced additional procedures to which the Investment Manager has discretion to act, and handle such situations.
Under the Act public companies may shareholder issues including investor relations.
The level of share authorise conflicts or potential conflicts if the Articles of Association price discount or premium to net asset value together with policies contain provisions to this effect.
The Article of Association adopted for re-purchase or issuance of new shares including the use of by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 30 July 2008 treasury shares are kept under review along with matters affecting give the Directors the authority to deal with conflicts of interest.
the industry and the evaluation of third party service providers.
The Board has always had in place policies to govern situations Additional meetings of the Board are arranged as required.
A where a potential conflict of interests may arise, in particular where formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the a Director is also a director of a company in which the Company full Board has been defined.
The Board has delegated to a number invests or may invest.
Where such a situation arises, these Directors of committees specific remits for consideration and are excluded from any discussions or decisions relating to recommendation but the final responsibility in these areas remains investments in their respective companies.
Each Director has provided the Company with a statement of all A procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest.
These have duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the been approved by the Board and recorded in a register.
No such advice has been sought during the past year.
may impose conditions on authorising any conflict or potential The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees conflict situations.
Each Director has agreed to notify the Chairman held during the financial year and the attendance of individual and the Company Secretary of any changes to his circumstances Directors are shown below.
which would impact on the notified conflicts or potential conflicts and obtain approval before entering into any situation which might 1 May 2008 to 30 April 2009 Management give rise to a conflict or potential conflict with the interests of the Board Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration Company.
of Meetings 6 3 6 1 1 Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their obligations to R Wakeling 6 3 6 1 n a notify any changes in their statement of conflicts and also to declare B Ashford-Russell 6 3 6 1 n a any benefits from third parties in their capacity as a Director of the P Dicks 6 3 5 1 1 Company which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict D Gamble 6 3 6 1 n a with the Companys interests.
No Director has declared receipt of M Moule 6 3 6 1 1 any benefits in his capacity as a Director of the Company.
R Montagu 5 3 5 1 1 Only Directors not involved in the conflict or potential conflict Not a member but attended part of the meeting by invitation participate in the authorisation process.
Directors in deciding All Directors in office at the date of the meeting attended the 2008 whether to authorise a situation take into account their duty to AGM, held on 31 July 2008. promote the Companys success.
The Board as part of its year-end has considered the register of conflicts, any conditions imposed on Investment Manager such conflicts or potential conflicts and the operation of the The Board has contractually delegated the management of the notification and authorisation process.
They concluded that the portfolio to the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP the process has operated effectively since its introduction.
It is the Investment Managers sole ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 29 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued responsibility to take decisions as to the purchase and sale of The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope of the individual investments other than unquoted investments where the annual audit, the annual accounts and the interim report, the terms Board is consulted.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for of appointment of the Auditors and their remuneration as well as gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within the limits any non-audit services provided by the Auditors.
It meets with established and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has representatives of the Investment Manager and receives reports on directly appointed the custodian and the registrars, both of which the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and the Investment Manager monitors and the Investment Manager management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
provides or procures the provision of accountancy services, The Committee also considers the internal controls and risk company secretarial and administrative services and the share management systems applicable to the Company.
The Investment Manager also The Audit Committee has direct access to the Auditors and to the ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner all relevant key senior staff of the Investment Manager and it reports its management, regulatory and financial information.
findings and recommendations to the Board which retains the Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board ultimate responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The Audit Committee meets with the Auditors each April to review the scope of the annual audit work and meets again each June to The Directors have access to the advice and services of the review the findings of the Auditors and the annual report and corporate company secretary through its appointed representative accounts prior to approval by the Board.
The Committee also who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures meets, without the Auditors present, in December to consider the are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied half-year report.
The independence and effectiveness of the with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, Auditors and the nature of the services provided have therefore co-operative and open environment.
been assessed throughout the year and the provision of non-audit Senior independent director services provided by the Auditors have been kept under review.
The Board elected Mr Dicks to act as the Senior Independent Director.
These non-audit services comprised the provision of specialist tax advice on matters relating to Section 842 of the Income and Board committees Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and VAT recovery which was provided The Board has created four standing committees whose terms are by a separate office of the Audit firm.
Details of fees paid to the described below.
The Board also creates ad hoc committees from time Auditors are given in note 8 on page 48. to time to enact or approve policies or actions agreed in principle by the whole Board.
Copies of the terms of reference for each of the The Audit Committee has recommended the re-appointment of standing committees are available on the Companys website.
Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee The Audit Committee meets three times a year and comprises of all The Management Engagement Committee meets at least annually the independent non-executive Directors.
The Board previously and at such other times as may be necessary.
All independent noncarefully considered the composition of the Audit Committee in light executive Directors are members of the Management Engagement of the Smith Report recommendations and concluded that due to Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The his experience Mr Wakeling, despite being Chairman of the Board, Committee is responsible for the review of the terms of the should remain as the Committees chairman.
Mr Wakeling has investment management contract which is reviewed annually and previously served as a finance director of two public companies and the Committee also considers, prior to making its recommendation in the opinion of the Board has the most relevant experience to act to the Board, whether the retention of the Investment Manager is as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As a non-executive Director in the interests of shareholders.
The Committee also considers other Mr Wakeling is not involved in the preparation of the accounts of the matters to do with the relationship with the Investment Manager.
Company, as this has been contracted to the Investment Manager.
30 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC The Committee has spent considerable time throughout the year The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible for on monitoring and discussing the developments in the recovery of recommending the framework for the remuneration of Directors.
VAT charged by the present Investment Manager and its former The Committee reviews the ongoing appropriateness of the manager Henderson Global Investors.
remuneration policy and the individual remuneration of Directors based on their contributions.
The fees paid to Directors are detailed Nomination Committee in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35.
The Nomination Committee comprises of all the independent nonexecutive Directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
Directors training The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible to the When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered an induction Board for the size and structure of the Board as well as succession course provided by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also planning and tenure policy for Directors.
Succession planning will be provided on a regular basis with key information on the Companys conducted bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and policies, regulatory and statutory obligations and internal controls.
experience existing on the Board and the Committee will make Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the recommendations to the Board when the further recruitment of Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in non-executive Directors is required.
Once a decision has been made that additional directors are to be Performance Evaluation recruited then candidates will be drawn from suggestions put The Board forward by the other Directors and by the use of external agencies.
The evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors The final selection will be made by the Board following is carried out annually by the Chairman of the Nomination recommendations by the Committee.
The process in the year involved the Chairman speaking to each Director and reporting to the Nomination Committee his The Committee also reviews the performance of the Board as a findings and views.
In the case of the Chairman his evaluation was whole and each individual Director.
Re-appointment as a Director is conducted by an independent director who reviewed the not automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each performance of the Chairman with the SID and reported to the Directors performance.
The Board acknowledges the rationale of Nomination Committee.
Directors are assessed on their relevant the Combined Code for the rigorous review of Directors serving over experience, their strengths and weaknesses in relation to the overall six years and annual re-appointment after nine years.
Nevertheless requirements of the Board and their commitment to the Company the Board shares the view of the AIC that length of service will not in terms of time by regular attendance of Board meetings.
The necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of process is constructed to assess the contribution of individual directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience can Directors to the overall operation of the Board and its committees.
The Nomination Committee considered the Chairmans views All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject and the views of the independent director on the Chairman and to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions.
In accordance concluded that each Director should continue and that no further with the Articles of Association, Directors will stand for election at appointments were necessary.
the first AGM following their appointment and will retire at every third AGM after their last election.
The Directors who are subject to The Investment Manager annual re-appointment due to length of service would be subject to The Board reviews the performance of the Investment Manager at rigorous assessment of their contribution.
each Board meeting and the Companys performance against the market and a peer group of investment companies and funds with Remuneration Committee similar investment objectives.
The investment team provided by the The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Dicks, the Senior Investment Manager, led by Mr Rogoff, has long experience of Independent Director.
Mr Moule and Mr Montagu were elected investment in technology.
In addition the Investment Manager has Committee members from April 2007. other investment resources which support the investment team and experience in managing and administering other investment trust companies.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 31 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued The Management Engagement Committee regularly reviews the and from the Investment Manager including risks not directly the terms of the contract with the Investment Manager.
responsibility of the Investment Manager.
The Board also monitors through the Investment Manager the The process was active throughout the year and up to the date of performance of its other service providers including the custodian approval of this annual report.
However, such a system is designed and registrar.
to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable Accountability and audit and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts is set out on page 36 and the Independent Auditors The Board has received formal reports from the Investment Report is on page 37.
Manager with details of any known internal control failures.
The Board considers reports on the Investment Managers internal Internal controls controls and systems operated by other third party suppliers.
The The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of Board also receives and considers ad hoc reports from the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company Investment Manager and information is supplied to the Board as has no employees as its operational functions are carried out by required.
During the year the Board reviewed the arrangements and third parties and the Audit Committee does not consider it counterparty risk in the provision of the global safe custody of the necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit Groups assets.
The Board also examined the risks and controls function.
Contracts with each of these parties were entered into operated by the Investment Manager when placing investment after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and trades with third parties.
cost of the services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Investment Manager has delegated the provision of accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing to HSBC The Investment Manager is responsible for the day to day Securities Services UK Limited but remains responsible to the investment management decisions on behalf of the Group and for Company for these functions and provided the Board with the provision of accounting and administrative services including information on the services provided.
The Investment Manager has an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertakes an absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls annual review of the Companys system of internal control where operated on behalf of its clients.
The Investment Manager is the Risk Map is reviewed and control processes considered.
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and its The Board will continue to monitor the system of internal controls compliance department monitors compliance with the FSA rules.
in order to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and Relations with shareholders managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is The Board is keen that the AGM be a participative event.
The documented through the use of a Risk Map which is subject to Investment Managers make a presentation and shareholders are regular review by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Chairmen of the Board and of the The controls are embedded within the business and aim to ensure Committees attend the AGM and are available to respond to that identified risks are managed and systems are in place to report queries and concerns from shareholders.
Twenty working days on such risks.
The internal controls seek to ensure that the assets of notice of the AGM has been given to shareholders and separate the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records are resolutions are proposed in relation to each substantive issue.
maintained and the financial information used in the Group and for Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the proxy votes publication is reliable.
Controls covering the risks identified, received are relayed to the meeting and subsequently published on including financial, operational, compliance and risk management the Companys website.
Proxy forms have a vote withheld option.
are monitored by a series of regular reports covering investment The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM together performance, attribution analysis, reports from various third parties with the full text of any special resolutions.
32 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC The Company has made arrangements for a share savings scheme STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE and ISA to be available to investors and for these shareholders to The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager has conducted receive all Company communications and the ability to direct the an annual review of the risk map and the effectiveness of the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made arrangements system of internal controls taking into account any issues, none of with its registrar for shareholders, who own their shares direct rather which were considered significant, which arose during the course than through a nominee or share scheme, to view their account of the year ended 30 April 2009 and up to the date of this report.
Other services are also The Directors consider that the Company has complied with the available via this service.
recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of The Company publishes an annual report and financial statements Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
as well as a half year report.
These are posted to all registered The Combined Code includes provisions relating to, the role of shareholders.
These are also available on the Companys website the chief executive: executive directors remuneration and the www.
co. uk together with the interim need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the management statements and the Investment Managers monthly AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the factsheets.
Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position The Company has adopted a nominee shareholder code which is of the Company, being an externally managed investment set out on page 63. company.
The Company has therefore not reported in respect of these provisions.
The Board monitors the share register of the Company: it also reviews correspondence from shareholders at each meeting and By order of the Board maintains regular contact with major shareholders.
Shareholders N P Taylor FCIS who wish to raise matters with a Director may do so by writing to Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited them at the registered office of the Company.
Secretary Environment, socially responsible investing and exercise of voting 11 June 2009 powers The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to take into account the published corporate governance policy and the environmental practices and policies of the companies in which they invest on behalf of the Company.
The Company has also considered the Investment Managers policy on voting.
The policy is for the Investment Manager to vote at all general meetings of UK companies in favour of resolutions proposed by the management where it believes that the proposals are in the interests of shareholders.
However in exceptional cases where it believes that a resolution could be detrimental to the interests of shareholders or the financial performance of the Company, appropriate notification will be given and abstentions or a vote against will be lodged.
The Board believes that their practices accord with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
