Directors report: Governance 56 Governance continued Key governance principles 1 Introduction has a relationship with the company.
Contents This section explains how the company has Accordingly, the board believes that there are Introduction 56 applied the main and supporting principles set no such relationships which could materially out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on interfere with their independent judgement.
The board 56 Corporate Governance June 2008 the A.
3.1 Compliant Report on the audit Combined Code.
committee 58 2.5 Non-executive directors are currently Report on the nomination The statement of compliance is set out in appointed for fixed periods of three years, committee 60 paragraph 13 on page 63 of the directors subject to appointment by shareholders.
initial three-year period may be extended for Report on the remuneration committee 60 one further three-year period and, in 2 The board exceptional cases, further extended, subject to Report on the executive Composition reappointment by shareholders.
Their letters committee 60 2.1 The board leads and controls the company.
of appointment may be inspected at the Report on the risk It currently comprises three executive directors, companys registered office or can be obtained advisory committee 61 three non-executive directors and a Chairman.
on request from the Company Secretary.
7.2 Compliant Internal control 62 Division of responsibilities between the 2.6 Robert Hough was appointed as the senior Relations with shareholders 62 Chairman and the Chief Executive independent director on 6 May 2009, when Directors responsibilities in 2.2 The board has previously approved a John Maxwell retired from the board.
He is relation to the financial statement of the division of responsibilities available to shareholders if they have concerns statements 63 between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
which contact through the normal channels of Disclosure and Transparency The Chairman is responsible for chairing the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director Rules statement 63 board meetings and monitoring their has failed to resolve or for which such contact is Statement of compliance effectiveness, chairing the AGM and the inappropriate.
3.3 Compliant with the Combined Code 63 nomination committee.
He is also responsible Governance framework for ensuring that an effective strategy is 2.7 The board has a formal schedule of matters approved by the board and that an annual specifically reserved to it for decision, including evaluation of the board is carried out.
The Chief corporate strategy, approval of budgets and Executive is primarily responsible for financial results, new board appointments, implementing the companys strategy, as well as proposals for dividend payments, the approval being a focal point for communication with of all major transactions and authorisation of shareholders.
All other responsibilities other directors interests that conflict, or may conflict than those detailed above, those reserved to with the interests of the company.
This schedule the board as a whole and the board is reviewed on an annual basis and was last committees are the responsibility of the Chief reviewed on 22 October 2009.
There are five Executive, who delegates appropriately.
2.1 Compliant have written terms of reference which are Chairman reviewed on an annual basis and were last 2.3 The Chairman is also Chairman of Hyperion updated on 22 October 2009.
The terms of Insurance Group Limited.
This appointment reference can be found on the companys involves no more than one days work per week.
website or are available on request from the There have been no other material changes in Company Secretary.
In addition, the group has his other commitments during the year or since detailed corporate policies which set out the year end.
4.3 Compliant authority levels within the group and were last reviewed and updated in June 2009.
Divisional Non-executive directors boards are required to report on compliance 2.4 Each of the non-executive directors has with the corporate policies on a biannual basis.
been formally determined by the board to be A.
1.1 Compliant independent for the purposes of the Combined Code, as each was found to be free from any material business or other relationship with the company either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Governance Governance 57 continued Meetings Independent advice 2.8 During 2009, the board had eight scheduled 2.10 There is a formal procedure by which any meetings and an annual planning conference.
In director may take independent professional 2010, and in future years, the board will have advice relating to the performance of his her nine scheduled meetings as well as an annual duties at the companys expense.
5.2 Compliant including a detailed agenda is sent to each Insurance director in the week before the board meeting so 2.11 The company has arranged appropriate that he she has sufficient time to review them.
All Directors and Officers liability insurance in directors are, therefore, able to bring respect of legal action against directors.
independent judgement to bear on issues such as A.
1.5 Compliant strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Additional meetings are called when Reappointment of directors required and there is frequent contact between 2.12 Under the companys articles, each director meetings, where necessary, to progress the should retire, but may be reappointed, at least companys business.
In 2009, the Chairman met at every third AGM as well as at the first AGM with the non-executive directors without any following appointment.
Also, after nine years, executive director present.
The non-executive a director must offer himself herself for directors met without the Chairman present to reappointment annually.
In 2009, biographical discuss the Chairmans performance and the details of the directors submitted for senior independent director discussed comments reappointment at the AGM were supplied in the arising with the Chairman.
shareholders circular and notice of the 2009 A.
7.1 Compliant Policy on other board appointments Board meetings 2.13 The boards policy on other directorships is designed to ensure that directors remain able to Total number of board meetings in 2009 9 discharge their responsibilities to the company.
John van Kuffeler Chair 9 9 This applies to the Chairman, executive directors Peter Crook 9 9 and non-executive directors.
The policy is set Andrew Fisher 9 9 out in paragraphs 2.13.1 to 2.13.3 below.
Any Chris Gillespie 8 9 request for an exception to this policy is 1 Rob Anderson 7 7 considered on its merits.
4.5 Compliant 2 John Maxwell 3 3 2.13.1 As specified in the letters of appointment Manjit Wolstenholme 9 9 of the non-executive directors, any proposed 1 appointment to the board of another company Appointed as a director on 2 March 2009.
2 Resigned as a director on 6 May 2009. will require the prior approval of the board.
4.4 Compliant Company Secretary 2.13.2 In accordance with the Combined Code, 2.9 All directors are able to consult with the an executive director will be permitted to hold Company Secretary.
The appointment and one non-executive directorship and to retain removal of the Company Secretary is a matter the fees from that appointment provided that for the board.
The Company Secretary is the board considers that this will not adversely secretary to all the board committees.
5.3 Compliant would not permit an executive director to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
4.5 Compliant Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Governance 58 Governance continued 2.13.3 The companys policy is that a nonTraining executive director should have sufficient time to 2.16 Appropriate training and briefing is fulfil his her duties to the company, including provided to all directors on appointment to the chairing a committee.
The board will consider board, taking into account their individual all requests for permission for other qualifications and experience.
Ongoing training directorships carefully, having regard to certain is arranged to suit their individual needs principles.
A non-executive director would not including environmental, social and be expected to hold more than four other governance training as appropriate and the material non-executive directorships.
Company Secretary, reporting to the Chairman, If he she holds an executive role in a FTSE 350 is responsible for identifying appropriate company, he she would not be expected to hold training courses for directors.
Update sessions more than two other material non-executive are arranged for the board as necessary.
Only one FTSE 100 company, or A.
5.1 Compliant two FTSE 350 companies, should be chaired at any given time.
4.4 Compliant 3 Report on the audit committee 3.1 Meeting attendance: Performance evaluation Audit 2.14 In November 2009, the board completed committee the seventh evaluation of its performance and meetings that of its committees and individual directors.
Total number of meetings in 2009 4 The Chairman was primarily responsible for this Manjit Wolstenholme Chair 4 4 evaluation and submitted a questionnaire to all 1 Rob Anderson 3 3 directors.
This contained questions on different Robert Hough 4 4 aspects of the operation of the board and its 2 committees and the performance of individual John Maxwell 1 1 directors.
The senior independent director was 1 Appointed as a director on 2 March 2009. responsible for collating comments on the 2 Resigned as a director on 6 May 2009.
A summary of the C. 3.1 Compliant evaluation was presented to the board in December 2009 which showed that the board, 3.2 The committee makes recommendations to its committees and individual directors were the board, for the board to put to shareholders working effectively.
The evaluation indicated in general meeting, in relation to the areas for improvement, but no significant appointment, reappointment and removal of problems were identified.
A performance the auditors and approves their remuneration evaluation of the board, the board committees and terms of engagement.
It reviews and and individual directors will continue to be monitors the independence and objectivity of conducted annually and the process for such the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit review will continue to be reviewed by the process, taking into consideration relevant UK board in order to optimise the process.
6.1 Compliant It develops and implements policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit Conflicts of interest services and reports to the board identifying 2.15 The company has procedures in place any matters in respect of which it considers to enable the board to review and authorise that action or improvement is needed and conflict situations as appropriate.
The board has makes recommendations as to the steps to be fully and properly complied with all the taken.
It monitors the integrity of the financial requirements of these procedures, which are in statements of the group and the formal accordance with the companys articles, since announcements relating to the groups financial 1 October 2008 and reviews the register of performance, reviewing significant financial conflicts annually.
In addition, details of reporting judgements contained in them.
It also potential conflicts previously approved by the reviews the groups internal and external board are also reviewed annually to ensure that whistleblowing policy having established an the basis of the approval and the conditions independent external confidential reporting attached thereto remain valid.
An annual report is prepared by the external provider which is reviewed by the committee.
The committee is also responsible for the annual review of the register of benefits offered to directors in accordance with the companys code of practice on benefits.
C. 3.2 C. 3.3 C. 3.4 Compliant 3.3 Manjit Wolstenholme took over the chair of the committee on her appointment to the board in 2007.
She is a chartered accountant and is considered to have the recent and relevant financial experience required by the provisions of the Combined Code.
The other members of the committee have a wide range of business and financial experience which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on page 49.
C. 3.1 Compliant Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Governance Governance 59 continued 3.4 From 1 January 2009, following the 3.8.
3 The company has a formal policy on the appointment of a Head of Audit & Risk, the use of auditors for non-audit work.
This policy internal audit function has been provided by an is reviewed once a year.
4 The main elements of the policy are as the internal audit plan once a year and reviews follows: The award of non-audit work to the regular reports on the activity of the internal auditors is managed in order to ensure that the audit function.
The internal audit function auditors are able to conduct an independent reports to the committee which helps to ensure audit and are perceived to be independent by the functions independence from group the groups shareholders and other management and ensures that appropriate stakeholders.
The performance of non-audit action is taken in response to audit findings.
work by the groups auditors is minimised and C. 3.5 Compliant work is awarded only when, by virtue of their 3.5 At the invitation of the committee, knowledge, skills or experience, the auditors are meetings are attended by both the Head of clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers.
The group maintains an active Audit & Risk and the external auditors as relationship with at least two other professional required and by the Finance Director and the accounting advisers.
The nature and cost of all group Financial Controller.
non-audit work awarded to the groups external 3.6 At its February and July meetings the auditors for the period since the last meeting committee had a separate session with the and for the year to date is reported to each groups auditors  LLP meeting of the audit committee, together with PwC, without any executive director or an explanation as to why the auditors were the employee of the company or group being preferred supplier.
The Chair of the committee meets remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general separately with the Head of Audit & Risk on a consultancy work may be awarded to the quarterly basis.
This gives members of the auditors without the prior approval of the chair committee the opportunity to raise any issues, of the audit committee, such approval to be including any issues on the final or interim given only in exceptional circumstances.
The results of the group directly with PwC and the chair of the audit committee must approve in Head of Audit & Risk.
C. 3.2 Compliant advance any single award of non-audit work with an aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
3.7 PwC have been the companys auditors for The auditors may not perform internal audit many years.
The audit committee considers work.
C. 3.2 Compliant that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their 3.8.
5 In 2009, the committee regularly effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not considered considered a schedule of non-audit work carried it necessary to date to require the firm to out by PwC.
Work carried out by PwC for the tender for the audit work.
The external auditors group in 2009 fell broadly into four categories: are required to rotate the audit partners fees payable for the audit of the parent responsible for the group and subsidiary audits company and consolidated financial statements: every five years and the current lead audit audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to partner has been in place for five years.
A legislation: other services pursuant to legislation replacement lead audit partner has been and tax services: and advice on the identified and agreed for the 2010 audit.
There establishment of an Employer Funded are no contractual obligations restricting the Retirement Benefit Scheme.
Details of work companys choice of external auditor.
carried out by PwC on behalf of the remuneration committee is summarised in 3.8 The committee is conscious of the need paragraph 6.7 on page 67.
Fees paid to to ensure that the auditors are, and are PwC in 2009 are set out on page 94 in note 4 perceived to be, independent and its work of the notes to the financial statements.
relating to this is summarised in paragraphs C. 3.7 Compliant 3.8.
C. 3.2 Compliant 3.9 The committee has formally considered its effectiveness in 2009.
1 PwC provide the committee with a letter that the committee was working effectively.
of independence, which is regularly updated A.
6.1 Compliant and considered by the committee.
2 The committee has adopted a policy on the appointment of staff from the auditors to positions within the various group finance departments.
It grades appointments into four categories and sets out the approvals required.
Neither a partner of the audit firm who has acted as engagement partner, the quality review partner, other key audit partners or partners in the chain of command, nor a senior member of the audit engagement team, may be employed as group Finance Director, group Financial Controller or a divisional finance director.
C. 3.2 Compliant Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Governance 60 Governance continued 4 Report on the nomination committee 4.4 At its meeting in December 2009, the 4.1 Meeting attendance: committee reviewed a high level succession plan for the executive directors, the Chairman Nomination committee and the persons discharging managerial meetings responsibility.
The Chief Executive agreed to Total number of meetings in 2009 2 develop a detailed succession plan based on the high level plan to include the identification of John van Kuffeler Chair 2 2 candidates who are or would be capable, with Peter Crook 2 2 training and development, of filling the roles 1 Rob Anderson 1 1 identified, for review and approval by the Robert Hough 2 2 committee by mid-2010.
The committee intends 2 John Maxwell 1 1 to report to the board on the detailed Manjit Wolstenholme 2 2 succession plan before the end of 2010.
1 Appointed as a director on 2 March 2009.
4.5 At its meeting in February 2010, the 2 Resigned as a director on 6 May 2009. committee carried out a review of the performance of Robert Hough and 4.2 The committees remit is to assist the board recommended to the board a further extension in the process of the selection and appointment to his term of office.
At a board meeting in of any new director and to recommend to the February 2010 his term of office was extended board the appointment of any new director.
to 31 January 2013, subject to his It keeps under review the structure, size and reappointment at the AGM on 5 May 2010. composition of the board.
It considers and, if appropriate, recommends to the board 5 Report on the remuneration committee the extension of the term of office of a non- 5.1 Full details of the composition and work of executive director.
It considers the succession the remuneration committee are contained plan annually and reports to the board that it in paragraph 5 on page 66 of the directors has done so.
There is a formal schedule of remuneration report.
2 Compliant matters reserved to it for decision.
4.1 Compliant 5.2 Pursuant to its terms of reference, the committee considers the framework of executive 4.3 The committee initiated a search in 2008 for remuneration and makes recommendations a new non-executive director to replace John to the board.
It determines the specific Maxwell, who retired from the board at the AGM remuneration packages and conditions of service on 6 May 2009.
The committee reported of the Chairman, the executive directors and the formally to the board on the candidates Company Secretary, including their service identified by the search and recommended the agreements.
It also monitors the level and appointment of Rob Anderson as a non-executive structure of the remuneration of the most senior director, who was appointed as a director on management below board level within the 2 March 2009.
His appointment was approved company.
No director is involved in determining at the AGM on 6 May 2009.
The committee his her own remuneration.
prepared a description of the role and capabilities required for the appointment and 6 Report on the executive committee managed the selection process with the help of The committee normally meets at least once an external search consultant.
a week, and more frequently as required, and A.
4.6 Compliant deals with matters relating to the running of the group, other than those matters reserved to the board and those specifically assigned to the other committees.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, which was updated on 22 October 2009.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Governance Governance 61 continued 7 Report on the risk advisory committee 7.3 The risk advisory committee delegates a 7.1 Meeting attendance: number of responsibilities to the risk advisory group which comprises the executive directors, Risk advisory committee the General Counsel and Company Secretary, meetings the group Financial Controller and the Head of Total number of meetings in 2009 3 Audit & Risk.
The deputy company secretary and 1 divisional risk managers also attend the Rob Anderson Chair 2 2 meetings by invitation.
The risk advisory group Andrew Fisher 3 3 considers the extent and nature of the risks 2 Robert Hough 3 3 facing the group, the extent and categories of 3 John Maxwell 1 1 risk which are acceptable to bear, the likelihood Manjit Wolstenholme 3 3 of the risk materialising, the groups ability to 1 Appointed as a director on 2 March 2009 and Chairman mitigate any risk, and the costs of operating of the committee with effect from 6 May 2009. particular controls relative to the benefits 2 Chairman of the committee until 6 May 2009. obtained.
It also reviews the risk registers 3 Resigned as a director on 6 May 2009. prepared by the divisional risk committees four times a year, challenging and making changes 7.2 The groups risk management framework is where appropriate.
It submits a schedule of key overseen by the risk advisory committee on risks, the divisional key risk registers and the behalf of the board.
The risk advisory committee ICAAP to the risk advisory committee for review.
is chaired by Rob Anderson and comprises the C. 2.1 Compliant Finance Director and the two other independent non-executive directors.
Its function is to keep 7.4 Throughout 2009, the risk advisory under review the groups risk management committee has overseen the continuing framework, and to report to the board on its enhancement of the risk management work.
It reviews the group and divisional risk framework across the group.
The main registers, considers the most important risks development has been the implementation facing the group and is responsible for reviewing of a more detailed and formal risk appetite the groups Internal Capital Adequacy framework which builds on previous work to Assessment Process ICAAP prior to submission implement enhanced risk assessment and to the board.
monitoring tools within the group.
The new framework allows the risk advisory committee and management to share a clear understanding of divisional risk appetite and enables effective monitoring and oversight by the committee and the board.
Biannual Corporate Board of budget policy directors process manual Audit Risk Executive Monthly Treasury management committee advisory committee committee committee accounts Internal Risk Divisional audit advisory boards group Committee Process Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Governance 62 Governance continued 8 Accountability 9.2.
4 The board requires the divisions to The board presents the companys position and operate in accordance with the group corporate prospects in as clear a way as possible, both policies and divisions are obliged to certify by means of the annual report and in circulars compliance on a biannual basis.
These documents C. 2.1 Compliant are posted on the companys website at 9.2.
5 A six-weekly finance forum chaired by www.
Announcements the group Finance Director and attended by made by the company to the London divisional finance directors and senior finance Stock Exchange are also posted on the management including the heads of tax, companys website.
treasury and risk, reviews and provides oversight of the key financial matters of the group.
The 9 Internal control group finance function establishes the process 9.1 The board is responsible for the companys and timetable for financial reporting and system, of internal control and for reviewing its consolidation activities and identifies changes effectiveness.
The system is designed to to accounting and financial reporting standards.
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and any system 9.3 In accordance with the revised Guidance for can provide only reasonable and not absolute Directors on the Combined Code, the board has assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviewed the effectiveness of the groups framework of internal controls during 2009.
C. 2.1 Compliant The process for identifying, evaluating and 9.2 The key elements of the internal control managing the significant risks faced by the system, including the financial reporting group, as set out above, was in place throughout processes, which has been established in 2009 and up to 2 March 2010 and no significant accordance with the revised Guidance for failings or weaknesses were identified during Directors on the Combined Code and the this period.
The board has also, whenever Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and appropriate, ensured that necessary actions have Transparency Rules, are set out in paragraphs been, or are being taken, to remedy significant 9.2.
C. 2 Compliant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
1 In December each year, the board approves C. 2.1 Compliant detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections 10 Relations with shareholders for the subsequent four years.
An update to the 10.1 Members of the board meet with budget is performed in June each year.
Actual institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
performance against budget is monitored in The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that detail within the groups management accounts appropriate channels of communication are and this is supplemented with a rolling forecast established between directors and shareholders of the full year outturn.
The groups management and ensuring that the views of the shareholders accounts form part of the board papers for each are made known to the board.
The company reports to shareholders relations report is considered by the board at on a half-yearly basis.
each meeting and independent reviews of C. 2.1 Compliant shareholder views are commissioned annually 9.2.
2 The audit committee keeps under review and reviewed by the board.
the adequacy of internal controls including D. 1.1 D. 1.2 Compliant financial, operational and compliance controls 10.2 The company encourages private investors in conjunction with the internal audit function to attend the AGM.
The chair of each of the and reports to the board regularly.
An annual board committees is available to answer programme of work which targets and reports questions from shareholders at the AGM and on higher risk areas is carried out by the internal there is an opportunity for shareholders to audit function.
The operation of internal ask questions on each resolution proposed.
financial controls is monitored by regular D. 2.3 Compliant management reviews, including a procedure by which each division certifies compliance 10.3 At the 2009 AGM, details of proxy votes quarterly.
C. 2.1 Compliant cast on each resolution were made available to shareholders and other interested parties by 9.2.
3 The risk advisory committee considers the means of an announcement to the London nature and extent of the risks facing the group, Stock Exchange and on the companys website.
keeps them under review, reviews the framework D. 2.2 Compliant to mitigate such risks, and notifies the board of changes in the status and control of risks.
10.4 At the 2009 AGM, the company proposed It reports to the board on a regular basis.
separate resolutions on substantially separate In addition, the risk advisory group formally issues and will continue to do so.
It is the reviews the divisional risk registers four times a companys policy to give shareholders in excess year.
It reports to the risk advisory committee.
of 20 working days notice of the AGM.
C. 2.1 Compliant D. 2.1 D. 2.4 Compliant 10.5 The company operates a dividend reinvestment plan which enables all shareholders to elect to receive their dividends in shares should they wish to do so.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Governance Governance 63 continued 11 Directors responsibilities in relation to 11.7 The Annual Report & Financial Statements the financial statements 2009 will be published on the companys 11.1 The following statement, which should website in addition to the normal paper version.
be read in conjunction with the independent The directors are responsible for the auditors report on page 126, is made to maintenance and integrity of the companys distinguish for shareholders the respective website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom responsibilities of the directors and of the governing the preparation and dissemination of auditors in relation to the financial statements.
financial statements may differ from legislation C. 1.1 Compliant in other jurisdictions.
11.2 The directors are responsible for preparing 12 Disclosure and Transparency Rules the annual report, the directors remuneration statement report and the financial statements in Each of the directors, whose names and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
functions are set out on pages 48 to 49, 11.3 The Companies Act 2006 requires the confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge directors to prepare financial statements for and belief, the financial statements, prepared each financial year.
The directors have prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the financial statements in accordance with give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, International Financial Reporting Standards financial position and profit of the group and IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
company: and that the directors report The financial statements are required to give a contained in this Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 includes a fair review of the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the development and performance of the business company and the group and of the profit or loss and the position of the company and group, of the company and the group for that period.
together with a description of the principal risks 11.4 In preparing these financial statements, and uncertainties it faces.
the directors are required to i select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 13 Statement of compliance with the consistently: ii make judgements and Combined Code estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The company complied with the main and iii state that the financial statements comply supporting principles set out in Section 1 with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the Combined Code throughout 2009. subject to any material departures disclosed Approved by the board on 2 March 2010 and and explained in the financial statements: and signed by order of the board.
iv prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue Kenneth J Mullen in business, in which case there should General Counsel and Company Secretary be supporting assumptions or qualifications 2 March 2010 as necessary.
11.5 The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority to include a management report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group and company.
11.6 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
