GOVERNANCE Governance Governance report Governance report The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal and delivering sustainable shareholder value through control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
the management of the Groups business.
This report The framework setting out the Groups approach to internal explains Prudentials approach to governance, including control, risk management and corporate responsibility comprises how the Board manages the business for the benefit of the following: shareholders, promoting long-term shareholder interest.
Group governance framework: Documents the Groups As a UK company listed on the Main Market of the London internal control policies and processes in an online manual, including the Groups risk framework, code of business conduct Stock Exchange, Prudential is subject to the governance rules set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and detailed policies on key operational and financial risks.
Business units are also required to follow any additional the Combined Code.
The Board has approved a governance framework which maps out the internal approvals processes processes necessary to comply with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
and those matters which may be delegated.
These principally relate to the operational management of the Groups businesses Group risk framework: Provides an overview of the Groupwide philosophy and approach to risk management, and sets and include pre-determined authority limits delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive for further delegation by out the key risk management processes which support the Groups compliance with internal, statutory and regulatory him in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management of the business.
Corporate responsibility framework: Provides an overview chief executive of each business unit has authority for the management of that business unit and has established a of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to corporate responsibility: supports the Groups commercial focus and the management board comprising its most senior executives.
increasing challenges faced including changes in stakeholder expectations.
A key element is the Group Code of Business Conduct which sets out the ethical standards the Board requires of itself, employees, agents and others working on behalf of the Group, in their dealings with employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, and competitors, in the wider community and in respect of the environment.
The Business Review provides further detail on Prudentials risk appetite and exposures pages 40 to 45 and corporate responsibility activities pages 69 to 74.
79 Governance Governance report Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance and the role of the Board Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve for two Combined Code compliance terms of three years from their initial election by shareholders, The corporate governance rules applicable to all UK companies although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set period.
Both Bridget Macaskill and Kathleen ODonovan have out in the Combined Code, published by the Financial Reporting been invited to serve another three-year term, having served for Council, the latest version of which can be viewed at six years as non-executive directors since their initial election by www.
The removal and resignation of the Companys directors is The directors believe that good corporate governance is central to achieving the Groups objectives and maximising shareholder governed by the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Combined Code, and the Companys Articles of Association.
value, and are committed to high standards of governance.
The Board supports the Combined Code, and confirms that The Board is actively engaged in succession planning for it has complied with all of the provisions set out in Section 1 both executive and non-executive roles to ensure that Board throughout the financial year ended 31December 2009. composition is periodically renewed, and that the Board retains The principles of the Combined Code have been applied its effectiveness at all times.
This is delivered through an as set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
established review process that is applied across all businesses and covers both director and senior management succession Board composition, appointments and election re-election and development, and through the work of the Nomination As at 31 December 2009, the Board comprised the Chairman, Committee, as described more fully on page 87.
The Board six executive directors and seven independent non-executive considers the outcome of the review annually and actions arising directors.
The biographies of all current directors are set out from the review are implemented as part of the management on pages 77 and 78. development agenda.
We believe that our non-executive directors bring a wide range of business, financial and The following changes occurred during the year: Tidjane Thiam, international experience to the Board and its committees.
who had been Chief Financial Officer from 25 March 2008, Our executive directors, who head up the main businesses of succeeded Mark Tucker as Group Chief Executive on 1 October the Group, each bring an in-depth understanding to the Board 2009, Mark Tucker having resigned from the Board with effect of their particular business, its markets and its challenges, from 30 September 2009.
Nic Nicandrou succeeded Tidjane ensuring coverage of the breadth and depth of the Groups as executive director and Chief Financial Officer with effect principal activities.
Following his decision to join Lloyds Banking Group as its Chairman, Sir Win Bischoff resigned as Role of the Board a non-executive director with effect from 15 September 2009.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate Rob Devey was appointed as executive director and Chief and clearly defined, and the scope of these roles has been Executive Officer, Prudential UK and Europe on 16 November approved by the Board so that no individual has unfettered 2009, replacing Nick Prettejohn, who resigned as director and decision-making powers.
The Chairman is responsible for the Chief Executive Officer, Prudential UK and Europe, with effect leadership and governance of the Board as a whole, and the from 30 September 2009.
Group Chief Executive for the management of the Group and The Board, or the members in a general meeting, may appoint the implementation of Board strategy and policy on the Boards directors up to a maximum total number of 20, as set out in the behalf.
In discharging his responsibilities, the Group Chief Companys Articles of Association.
Any director appointed by Executive is advised and assisted by the Group Executive the Board will retire at the first Annual General Meeting following Committee, comprising all the business unit heads and a his or her appointment and offer himself or herself for election by Group Head Office team of functional specialists.
Accordingly, Nic Nicandrou and Rob Devey will James Ross is the Companys Senior Independent Director, to retire and offer themselves for election at the Annual General whom concerns may be conveyed by shareholders if they are Meeting on 19 May 2010. unable to resolve them through the existing mechanisms for Under the Companys Articles of Association and in line with investor communications, or where such channels are the Combined Code, all directors must retire as directors every inappropriate.
three years, and accordingly Michael Garrett, Bridget Macaskill, The Boards terms of reference, which are regularly reviewed, Clark Manning and Barry Stowe will retire and offer themselves set out those matters specifically reserved to it for decision, in for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010. order to ensure that it exercises control over the Groups affairs.
Non-executive directors are usually appointed for an initial These include approval of the annual and interim results, strategy three-year term, commencing with their election by shareholders and corporate objectives, operating plans, significant transactions at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
and matters affecting the Companys share capital.
Under the Each appointment is reviewed towards the end of the three-year Groups internal governance framework all business units are term against performance and the requirements of the Groups required to seek approval from the Board for a number of matters businesses.
The terms and conditions of all directors above pre-determined authority limits.
appointments are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE Powers of directors facilitate a fuller understanding of that business.
In June 2009, a Board meeting was held in Chicago, where the Board met The management and control of the business and affairs of the Company are vested in the Board.
The Board may exercise all with senior members of the US management team and attended a series of presentations on the US business.
In November 2009, powers conferred on it by the Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
This includes the powers of the Company a Board meeting was held in Kuala Lumpur where the directors met senior members of the Asian management team and to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its assets subject to limitations in the Companies Act 2006 and the received presentations on the Asian business.
Companys Articles of Association and to give a guarantee, The table below details the number of Board and Committee security or indemnity in respect of a debt or other obligation meetings attended by each director throughout the year.
The Board may exercise all powers of the directors were not able to attend a meeting, their views were Company, other than matters required by the Companies canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meeting.
A further nine Act 2006 to be dealt with in general meeting.
ad hoc Board Committee meetings took place during the year, which had been convened to finalise arrangements for matters Board and committee meetings and attendance discussed by the Board, such as final approvals of periodic During 2009, the Board met nine times and held one separate financial reports, or finalising corporate transactions.
A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for a number of years, which is kept updated to reflect not only The Chairman usually meets formally, at least annually, with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being scheduled regular items of business but also any topical matters arising during the year.
Each year, at least one of the Board present.
During 2009 these meetings took place in February and July.
meetings is held at one of the Groups business operations to Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Number of meetings in year 9 8 11 6 Chairman Harvey McGrath 9 9 6 6 Executive directors Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive 9 9 note 1 Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer 2 2 note 2 Rob Devey 1 1 Clark Manning 9 9 Michael McLintock 9 9 note 3 Nick Prettejohn 7 7 Barry Stowe 9 9 note 4 Mark Tucker 6 7 Non-executive directors note 5 Sir Win Bischoff 6 6 note 6 Keki Dadiseth 7 9 10 11 note 7 Michael Garrett 9 9 6 11 Ann Godbehere 9 9 8 8 Bridget Macaskill 9 9 11 11 6 6 Kathleen ODonovan 9 9 8 8 note 8 James Ross Senior Independent Director 9 9 10 11 5 6 Lord Turnbull 9 9 8 8 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which the individual could have attended in the period in which they were a Board or Committee member.
Notes 1 Appointed as a director on 28 October 2009.
2 Appointed as a director on 16 November 2009.
3 Ceased to be a director with effect from 30 September 2009.
4 Ceased to be a director with effect from 30 September 2009.
5 Ceased to be a director with effect from 15 September 2009.
6 Was not able to attend all Board and Remuneration Committee meetings due to prior commitments, but his views were sought prior to those meetings he could not attend.
7 Was not able to attend all Remuneration Committee meetings due to prior commitments, in particular those meetings which were scheduled at short notice, but his views were sought prior to those meetings he could not attend.
8 Was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting due to prior commitments, but his views were sought prior to the meetings he could not attend.
81 Governance Governance report Corporate governance continued Board independence Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that they are able to demonstrate satisfactory time The Company follows the Combined Code when determining the independence of its non-executive directors, and in addition commitment to their role at Prudential, and that they discuss any new appointment with the Chairman prior to accepting.
This to that guidance Prudential is required to affirm annually the independence of its Audit Committee members under the United ensures that they do not compromise their independence and that any potential conflicts of interest and any possible issues arising States Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
Where necessary, the Board ensures that appropriate processes are in place to manage any out of the time commitments required by the new role can be identified and addressed appropriately.
The major commitments potential conflicts of interest.
of our non-executive directors are detailed in their biographies In line with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Chairman set out on page 78. in office during the year was independent on appointment.
Throughout the year all non-executive directors were considered Conflicts of interest by the Board to be independent in character and judgement, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with and independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Keki Dadiseth and Barry Stowe also serve as non-executive directors to authorise conflicts of interest, and the Board has adopted a policy and effective procedures on managing and, directors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, an Indian company which is owned 26 per cent by Prudential, and in where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, directors are required to addition Keki serves at Prudentials request as a non-executive director of ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, an Indian company declare all directorships or other appointments to companies which is owned 49 per cent by Prudential.
The Board does not which are not part of the Prudential Group, and which could consider that these appointments in any way affect Kekis status result in conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, as well as as an independent director of Prudential.
other situations which could give rise to a potential conflict.
The Nomination Committee or the Board evaluates and Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and approves each such situation individually where applicable.
the Board does not believe that this situation compromises the independence of those non-executive directors who are also on Induction, development and performance evaluation the boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
Induction The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in providing preclude the Company from having the most appropriate and tailored induction programmes for new directors and on-going highest calibre non-executive directors.
Upon appointment, all directors embark upon a wide-ranging induction programme covering, amongst Other commitments and conflicts of interest other things, the principal bases of accounting for the Groups Other commitments results, the role of the Board and its key committees, and the The Board was satisfied during 2009 that the Chairmans other ambit of the internal audit and risk management functions.
commitments did not interfere with the day-to-day performance In addition, they receive detailed briefings on the Groups of his duties for the Group, and that he had the commitment and principal businesses, its product range, the markets in which it capability to make himself available under unforeseen operates and the overall competitive environment.
Other areas circumstances, should the need arise.
The major commitments addressed include legal issues affecting directors of financial of the Chairman, including changes during the year where services companies, the Groups governance arrangements, its applicable, are detailed in his biography on page 77. investor relations programme, as well as its remuneration policies.
Directors may, from time to time, hold directorships or other significant interests with companies outside of the Prudential Ongoing development Group, which may have business relationships with the Group.
Throughout their period in office, directors are regularly updated on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and industryExecutive directors may accept external directorships and retain specific environments in which it operates, as well as on their legal any fees earned from those directorships, subject to prior and other duties and obligations as directors where appropriate.
discussion with the Group Chief Executive, and always provided These updates can be in the form of written reports to the Board, this does not lead to any conflicts of interest.
In line with the or presentations by senior executives or external sources where Combined Code, executive directors would be expected to hold appropriate.
Non-executive directors serving on key committees no more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 are also updated regularly on matters specific to the relevant company.
Tidjane Thiam was a non-executive director of Arkema committee in order to enhance their knowledge and effectiveness in France until November 2009.
Some of our other executive throughout their term in office, and receive presentations from directors hold directorships or trustee positions of unquoted senior executives on topics of interest to them.
Details of any fees retained are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 104, and major commitments of our executive directors are detailed in their biographies on page 77.
82 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE A programme of on-going professional development was Directors interests undertaken for all directors in 2009, which covered a number of Details of each directors interests in shares of the Company sector-specific and business issues as well as legal, accounting and are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 106. regulatory changes and developments.
The business unit chief executive officers together with relevant senior managers gave Directors indemnities and protections presentations to the Board during the course of the year on the The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in challenges and opportunities currently faced by their business respect of legal action against directors and senior managers of unit.
In addition, senior managers within certain head office companies within the Prudential Group.
In addition, the Articles functions presented to the Board on the key issues currently facing of Association of the Company permit the directors and officers their function.
Non-executive directors received an update on key of the Company to be indemnified in respect of liabilities incurred actuarial topics during the year.
In addition, members of the Audit as a result of their office.
Prudential also provides protections for Committee have the option to attend meetings of the business unit directors and senior managers of companies within the Group audit committees, to aid their understanding of topical matters of against personal financial exposure they may incur in their capacity interest to them and how they are handled by the Group.
These include qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined where relevant by the Companies Act 1985 and the Performance evaluation Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of directors of Prudential plc Prudential continued its programme of annual evaluations of the and other such persons, including, where applicable, in their performance of the Board and its committees in respect of 2009, capacity as directors of other companies within the Group.
These in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The aim is indemnities were in force during 2009 and remain in force.
to continue to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, and enhance the Groups performance.
Governance, internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for establishing a system of internal In respect of 2009, the evaluation of the Board as a whole was control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To achieve this, the carried out internally led by the Company Secretary in consultation Board has established frameworks for internal governance, risk with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the and corporate responsibility.
This system is designed to manage Group Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary prepared a report rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business based on the findings of the review, which will be presented to and objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute discussed by the Board in March 2010, and an action plan will be assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The use of external providers for future evaluations is kept under review by the Board.
Further details on the procedures for the management of risk and the systems of internal control operated by the Group are In addition, the performance of the non-executive directors and given in the section on Risk Governance on pages 90 and 91. the Group Chief Executive was evaluated by the Chairman in The governance framework principally relates to the operational individual meetings.
The non-executive directors, led by the management of the Groups businesses and includes preChairman, evaluated the performance of the executives, and, led determined authority limits delegated by the Board in respect by the Senior Independent Director, will evaluate the performance of matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day of the Chairman in March.
running and management of the business.
The Group Chief Executive directors are subject to regular review, and the Group Executive has been delegated management authority by the Chief Executive individually appraised the performance of each Board, and in turn grants authority to the executive, including of the executive directors as part of the annual Group-wide the chief executive officers of each business unit, who report to performance evaluation of all staff.
The Audit Committee carried him for the management of that business unit.
In addition, each out a separate evaluation in 2009, and the results were reported of those chief executives has established a management board to the Board in February 2010. comprising the business units most senior executives.
The system is regularly reviewed and complies with the revised Internal and external support guidance on the Combined Code issued in October 2005 the All directors have direct access to the services of the Company Turnbull guidance.
The Board last reviewed the effectiveness Secretary who advises them on all corporate governance matters, of the system of internal control in February 2010, covering all on Board procedures, and on compliance with applicable rules and material controls, including financial, operational and compliance regulations.
In order to ensure good information flows, full Board controls, and risk management systems.
The Board confirms and Committee papers are provided to the directors by the that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Company Secretary in the ordinary course approximately one managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has week before each Board or Committee meeting.
been in place throughout the period covered by this report The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors have the and up to 8 March 2010. right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense where this is appropriate to enable the directors, either individually or as a group, to properly fulfil their obligations.
Copies of any instructions and advice given by an independent professional adviser to a director are supplied by the director to the Company Secretary who will, where appropriate, circulate to other directors sufficient information to ensure that other members of the Board are kept informed on issues arising which affect the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
83 Governance Governance report Corporate governance continued The chief executive and chief financial officer of each business Role of the Committee unit certified compliance with the Groups governance, internal The Committees principal responsibilities consist of oversight control and risk management requirements.
The risk management over financial reporting, internal controls and risk management, function reviewed any matters identified by business units in their and monitoring auditor independence.
Its duties include gaining certification, and also assessed the risk and control issues that assurance on the control over financial processes and the integrity arose and were reported during the year.
This included routine of the Groups financial reports, monitoring the performance, and exception-based risk reporting, matters identified and objectivity and independence of the external auditor, and reported by other Group Head Office oversight functions, and the reviewing the work of the internal auditor.
Once the Board has findings from the work of the internal audit function, who execute established a separate risk committee with responsibility for risk risk-based audit plans throughout the Group.
The results were monitoring and oversight, the Committees role will change reported to and reviewed by the Group Audit Committee, the role accordingly.
of which is described on pages 84 to 87 and by the Board where In performing its duties, the Committee has access to employees appropriate.
and their financial or other relevant expertise across the Group, In line with the Turnbull guidance, the certification provided and to the services of the Group-wide Internal Audit Director and above does not apply to certain material joint ventures where the Company Secretary.
The Committee may also seek external the Group does not exercise full management control.
In these professional advice at the Groups expense.
cases, the Group satisfies itself that suitable governance and risk The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the management arrangements are in place to protect the Groups Board and kept under regular review, are available on interests.
However, the relevant Group company which is party our website at www.
co. uk prudential-plc to the joint venture must, in respect of any services it provides in aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies may be support of the joint venture, comply with the requirements of the obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, at the Groups internal governance framework.
The internal control and risk management systems described above, and also under the sections on Risk Governance on pages Membership 90 and 91 and the Group Audit Committee on page 85, cover the The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent Companys financial reporting process and the Groups process non-executive directors of the Company, as set out below: for the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
Ann Godbehere FCGA Chairman Kathleen ODonovan ACA Disclosure of information to auditor Lord Turnbull KCB CVO The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there Membership is selected to provide a broad set of financial, is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is commercial and other relevant experience to meet the unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she Committees objectives.
ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware The Board has determined that Kathleen ODonovan has recent of any relevant audit information and to establish that the and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Board has further determined that is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the Ann Godbehere, who has a long-standing career in the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. financial services industry with notable insurance sector experience, brings additional recent and relevant financial Board Committees experience to the Committee.
In May 2009 the Board The Board has established audit, remuneration and nomination designated Kathleen ODonovan as its audit committee financial committees as standing committees of the Board with written expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes.
This will be reviewed terms of reference, which are kept under regular review.
Following during 2010 in conjunction with the publication of Form 20-F. recent reviews of the governance of UK companies, the Board intends to establish a separate risk committee responsible for Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, monitoring and overseeing risk, which will become operational including their relevant experience are set out in their biographies in 2010.
These committees are key elements of the Groups on page 78. corporate governance framework, and reports on each committee currently in operation are included below: Meetings The Committee met eight times during the year, and all meetings Audit Committee Report were attended by all Committee members.
By invitation, the This report sets out the responsibilities of the Group Audit Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Committee the Committee and the activities carried out by General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group-wide Internal the Committee during the year to meet its objectives.
Audit Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, and other senior staff from the group finance, internal audit, risk, compliance and security functions where appropriate, as well as the lead partner of the external auditor attended meetings.
Other partners of the external auditor also attended some of the meetings to contribute to the discussions relating to their area of expertise.
84 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for a number of In addition, the Committee is regularly briefed by senior years which is continually updated to ensure all matters for which management on developments in International Financial the Committee is responsible are addressed at the appropriate Reporting Standards.
The Committees principal business during the year consisted of the following: Confidential reporting One of the standing agenda items of the Committee is to review review of half-year and full-year results, the annual report a report on calls to the confidential reporting line, which is made and accounts, and other significant announcements, where available to employees to enable them to communicate appropriate: confidentially on matters of concern, and actions taken in response examination of critical accounting policies and key judgmental to these calls.
The Committee also considered whether any areas: internal control implications arose from communications received.
review of changes in and implementation of Group Accounting No material control implications were raised from calls to the Policies in compliance with International Financial Reporting confidential helpline.
During the year, the Chairman reviewed the Standards and practices: procedures adopted by the Company on the methods of handling review of the Groups tax matters: calls to the confidential reporting line across the Group with the approval of the external auditors management representation Group-wide Internal Audit Director and the head of the security letter, review of the external auditors full-year memorandum function.
An external review of the method of handling calls to and external audit opinion: the confidential reporting line was also carried out by the external review of US filings and related external audit opinions: auditor during the year.
monitoring of auditor independence and the external auditors plans and audit strategy, the effectiveness of the external audit Business unit audit committees process, the external auditors qualifications, expertise and Each business unit has its own audit committee whose members resources, and making recommendations for the reand chairmen comprise primarily of senior management and are appointment of the external auditor: independent of the respective business unit.
The chairmen of monitoring of the framework and effectiveness of the Groups these committees report regularly to the Committee, and their systems of internal control, including the Turnbull compliance meetings are attended by senior management of the respective statement and Sarbanes-Oxley procedures: business unit, including the business units heads of finance, risk, monitoring the effectiveness of both the Groups risk framework compliance and internal audit.
Business unit audit committees and the management of key financial and operational risks: have adopted standard terms of reference across the Group, with review of the internal audit plan and resources, and monitoring only minor variations to address overseas requirements or of the audit framework and internal audit effectiveness: particular requirements of the business.
The terms of reference of monitoring the effectiveness of compliance processes and those committees were reviewed during the year, and all include controls, and performance against the Groups compliance plan: escalation of significant matters to the Committee, approval of the review of anti-money laundering procedures, and allegations business unit internal audit plans and overseeing the adequacy of received via the employee confidential reporting lines: and internal audit resources.
Also included are presentations from the review of its own effectiveness and terms of reference.
During the year, the business unit audit In addition, the Committee received in-depth presentations on committees reviewed and approved their respective internal audit a range of topics.
plans, resources and the results of internal audit work, and both external and internal auditors were able to discuss any relevant The Chairman reported to the Board on matters of particular matters with the Chairman and members of the Committee significance after each Committee meeting, and the minutes as required.
of Committee meetings were circulated to all Board members.
The Committee recognises the need to meet without the Internal control and risk management presence of executive management.
Such sessions were held in The Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal March 2009 with the external and internal auditors, in July 2009 control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
It also with the external audit partners and the head of the security reviewed the policies and processes for identifying, assessing and function, and in December 2009 with the external and internal managing business risks.
Throughout the year, the Committee auditors.
At all other times, management and auditors have open received the minutes of the Disclosure Committee and the Group access to the Chairman.
Operational Risk Committee and noted their activities.
Further information on the Disclosure Committee and on risk governance Financial reporting appears on pages 89 and 90 to 91 respectively.
As part of its review of financial statements prior to recommending Pursuant to the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley their publication to the Board, the Committee focused on: critical Act, the Group must undertake an annual assessment of the accounting policies and practices and any changes, decisions effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Further requiring a major element of judgement, unusual transactions, details are provided on page 89. clarity of disclosures, significant audit adjustments, the going concern assumption, compliance with accounting standards, and compliance with obligations under the Combined Code and other applicable laws and regulations.
85 Governance Governance report Corporate governance continued Internal audit All services provided by the auditor in accordance with this policy are provided in accordance with a pre-approved budget and are The Committee regards its relationship with the internal audit function as pivotal to the effectiveness of its own activities.
reviewed by the Committee and approved where necessary.
The Committee regularly reviews and updates the policy to Group-wide Internal Audit plays an important role in supporting the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities under the Combined ensure alignment with the latest standards and best practice in establishing, maintaining and monitoring auditor independence Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and provides independent assurance on the Companys processes of identification and and objectivity.
The Committee agreed the work programme of the internal audit function to be undertaken during 2009.
Each of the Fees payable to the auditor For the year ended 31 December 2009, the Committee approved Groups business units has an internal audit team, the heads of which report to the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
Internal fees of 10 million to its auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, for audit services and other services supplied pursuant to relevant legislation.
In audit resources, plans and work are overseen by the Committee and by business unit audit committees.
Across the Group, total addition, the Committee approved fees of 2.4 million to KPMG for services not related to audit work, which accounted for 19 per internal audit headcount stands at 117.
The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports functionally to the Committee and for cent of total fees paid to the external auditor in the year.
Non-audit services primarily related to services for corporate transactions and management purposes to the Chief Financial Officer.
In accordance with the Groups Formal reports are submitted to Committee meetings, with Auditor Independence Policy, all services were approved prior to interim updates where appropriate, and views are also sought work commencing, and each of the non-audit services was at the private meetings between the Committee and the internal confirmed to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake, auditors, as well as during regular private meetings between as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee reviewed the Chairman of the Committee and the Group-wide Internal the non-audit services being provided to the Group by KPMG at Audit Director.
A summary of audit fees is provided in Note I5 of the Group Financial Statements.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit function by means of regular reviews, some of them carried out by Auditor performance and independence external advisers, and through ongoing dialogue with the Groupwide Internal Audit Director.
External reviews of internal audit As part of its work during 2009, the Committee assessed the performance of the external auditor, its independence and arrangements and standards were last conducted in 2006 and 2007 to ensure that the activities and resources of internal audit objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In addition to questioning the external auditor and the Chief Financial Officer, are most effectively organised to support the oversight responsibilities of the Committee.
These reviews, performed by which is a regular feature of meetings, the review of the effectiveness of the external audit process was conducted through Deloitte, confirmed that the internal audit function complies with the Institute of Internal Auditors international standards for the a questionnaire-based exercise administered by Group-wide Internal Audit, supplemented by interviews with senior finance professional practice of internal auditing and was operating effectively.
An internal assessment of the internal audit function staff and Committee members.
The Committee reviewed the external audit strategy and received reports from the auditor on its was performed by the Group-wide Internal Audit Director in 2008 and 2009, based on internal audits ongoing self-assessment own policies and procedures regarding independence and quality control, including an annual confirmation of its independence in processes and using a maturity model derived from the review criteria used by Deloitte.
The assessment confirmed that the line with industry standards.
internal audit function conforms to the Institute of Internal Auditors international standards and continues to operate Re-appointment of auditor The Group operates a policy under which at least once every five effectively in all areas of professional practice.
The results of the assessment were reported in detail to the Committee in years a formal review is undertaken by the Committee to assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
The external February 2010. audit was last put out to competitive tender in 1999 when the present auditor was appointed.
Since 2005 the Committee has External audit The Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the external annually considered the need to re-tender the external audit service.
It again considered this in 2009 and concluded that auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship is with the Committee.
The Groups Auditor Independence Policy ensures there was nothing in the performance of the auditor requiring a change.
In 2007, a new lead audit partner was appointed by that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is not impaired.
The policy sets out four key principles which underpin KPMG Audit plc, in line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, namely that the auditor should not: Following its review of the external auditors effectiveness and audit its own firms work: independence, the Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as auditor of the Company, make management decisions for the Group: have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or and a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company to hold office until the end of the 2011 be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Annual General Meeting will be put to a shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010.
86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE Review of Committee effectiveness Meetings During the year, the Committee undertook an in-depth The Committee normally has scheduled meetings at least four performance assessment in-house by way of a detailed times a year and a number of additional meetings, as required, questionnaire, administered by the Secretariat, addressing both to review remuneration policy and the application of that policy.
compliance with various regulations and codes of conduct, and While the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not members, qualitative aspects of the Committees performance during the they attend meetings unless they have a conflict of interest.
The results were discussed at a Committee meeting in During 2009, a total of 11 Committee meetings were held.
Details December 2009 and reported to the Board in February 2010. of Committee members attendance are set out on page 81.
Recommendations to improve processes identified by the review are being implemented, and the Committee is satisfied, based on Nomination Committee Report the findings of this review, that it had been operating as an Role of the Committee effective audit committee throughout the year, meeting all The Nomination Committee the Committee, in consultation applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Further reviews of with the Board, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and the effectiveness of the Committee will be undertaken regularly experience on the Board and identifies the role and capabilities and will, from time to time, be conducted by external consultants.
required at any given time, taking into account the Groups business.
Candidates are considered on merit against those Remuneration Committee Report criteria, and the Committee makes recommendations to the Board Role of the Committee regarding suitable candidates for appointments.
In appropriate The Remuneration Committee the Committee determines the cases, search consultants are used to identify candidates.
The remuneration packages of the Chairman and executive directors.
Committee also reviews conflicts of interest or potential conflicts It also agrees the principles and monitors the level and structure of interest raised by directors between Board meetings or for of remuneration for a defined population of senior management prospective new Board members.
In cases where there might be as determined by the Board.
In framing its remuneration policy, an actual or potential conflict of interest, the Committee has the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions of powers to authorise any such actual or potential conflict situation Schedule A to the Combined Code.
The Directors Remuneration on behalf of the Board, imposing any terms and conditions it Report prepared by the Board is set out in full on pages 96 to 114. deems appropriate, or to make recommendations to the Board as In preparing the report, the Board has followed the provisions to whether the conflict or potential conflict should be authorised, of the Combined Code, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services and on what terms.
Authority, and the Companies Act 2006.
The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief Board and kept under regular review, are available on our Executive, when only the Chairman is consulted, the Committee website at www.
co. uk prudential-plc consults the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive about the aboutpru corporate governance Alternatively, copies may be Committees proposals relating to the remuneration of all obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, at the executive directors.
The Committee has access to professional Companys registered office.
advice inside and outside the Company.
Membership The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive Board and kept under regular review, are available on our directors and the Chairman, as set out below: website at www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru corporategovernance Harvey McGrath Chairman Alternatively, copies may be obtained upon request from the Bridget Macaskill Company Secretary, at the Companys registered office.
James Ross The terms of reference comply with all significant aspects of Meetings relevant investor guidelines, and require the Committee to ensure The Committee meets as required to consider candidates for that when setting remuneration policy, the Company provides appointment to the Board and to make recommendations to the reward for enhancing shareholder value responsibly in relation to Board in respect of those candidates.
The Group Chief Executive executive directors individual contributions, which we believe is is closely involved in the work of the Committee and is invited to the appropriate policy to support our business.
attend and contribute to meetings.
Membership During 2009, the Committee met six times and recommended The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent nonto the Board the appointments of Tidjane Thiam as Group Chief executive directors of the Company, as set out below.
Executive as of 1 October 2009, Nic Nicandrou as executive director and Chief Financial Officer as of 28 October 2009 and Bridget Macaskill Chairman Rob Devey as executive director and Chief Executive, Prudential Keki Dadiseth FCA UK and Europe, as of 16 November 2009.
Full biographical details Michael Garrett of those directors are set out on page 77.
Details of Committee James Ross members attendance at meetings are set out on page 81.
Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, The process of evaluating the skills and composition of the Board including their relevant experience are set out in their biographies is ongoing, and is kept under regular review in order to ensure on page 78. appropriate plans for succession to the Board are in place.
87 Governance Governance report Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Share capital Communication with shareholders On 31 December 2009, the Companys issued share capital, which As a major institutional investor, the Company is very aware of the is set out in Note H11 on page 264, consisted of 2,532,227,471 importance of maintaining good relations with its shareholders.
ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all fully paid up and listed on the We regularly hold discussions with major shareholders and a Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The number of programme of meetings took place during 2009.
A perception accounts on the share register at 31December 2009 was 71,700 survey into the views of the Companys major investors is 2008: 75,435.
The Company is listed on the New York Stock undertaken on an annual basis by an independent firm, and the Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, referenced results of this survey are presented to the Board.
Board members to its ordinary shares, under a depositary agreement with also regularly receive copies of the latest analysts and brokers J. P. Morgan.
reports on the Company and the sector, to further develop their knowledge and understanding of external views about the Rights and obligations Company.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are provided feedback to the Board on topics raised with them by set out in full in the Companys Articles of Association.
Should major shareholders wish to meet currently no voting restrictions on the ordinary shares, all of which newly appointed directors, or any of the directors generally, are fully paid, and each share carries one vote on a poll.
If votes are they are welcome to do so.
cast on a show of hands, each shareholder present in person or by proxy, or in the case of a corporation, each of its duly authorised The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk corporate representatives, has one vote, unless the proxy is containing a wide range of information of interest to private and appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has institutional investors, including the Groups financial calendar.
one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed The shareholder information section on pages 348 and 349 by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or contains further details which may be of interest to shareholders.
more members to vote against the resolution.
Annual General Meeting Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercisable by Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 19 May 2010 at 11.00am.
the registered owner, in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The Company believes the Annual General Meeting is an Trustees may vote at their discretion, but do not vote on any important forum for both institutional and private shareholders unawarded shares held as surplus assets.
and encourages all its shareholders to vote.
Shareholders are As at 8 March 2010, trustees held 0.17 per cent of the issued given the opportunity during annual general meetings to put share capital of the Company under the various plans in operation.
questions to the Board on matters relating to the Groups operations and performance.
Rights to dividends under the various schemes are set out in Note I3 on pages 285 to 288.
At its Annual General Meeting in 2009, the Company continued its practice of calling a poll on all resolutions.
The voting results, Restrictions on transfer which included all votes cast for and against each resolution at In accordance with English company law, shares may be the meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were transferred by an instrument of transfer or through an electronic indicated at the meeting and published on the Companys website system currently CREST, and transfer is not restricted except as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The Company also that the directors may in certain circumstances refuse to register disclosed the number of votes withheld at the meeting and on transfers of shares, but only if such refusal does not prevent its website.
This practice provides shareholders present with dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper sufficient information regarding the level of support and basis.
If the directors make use of that power, they must send opposition to each resolution, and ensures all votes cast either the transferee notice of the refusal within two months.
at the meeting or through proxies are included in the result.
Certain restrictions may be imposed from time to time by Company constitution applicable laws and regulations for example, insider trading The Company is governed by the Companies Act 2006 and laws, and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services other applicable legislation, and by its Articles of Association.
Authority and Prudentials own share dealing rules whereby The Articles of Association are available on our website at certain employees of the Company require the approval of the www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru memorandum Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Any change to the Articles must be approved by special resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
88 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions US corporate governance and regulations on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As As a result of the listing of its securities on the New York Stock described in the Directors Remuneration Report, non-executive Exchange, the Company is required to comply with the relevant directors use a proportion of their fees to purchase shares in the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as they apply Company which may not normally be transferred during a to foreign private issuers, and has adopted procedures to ensure directors period of office.
In addition, all directors are required this is the case.
to obtain a number of qualification shares within one year of In particular in relation to the provisions of section 302 of that Act, appointment, which they would also be expected to retain which covers disclosure controls and procedures, a Disclosure during their tenure of office.
Committee has been established reporting to the Group Chief Executive, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and comprising Significant shareholdings members of senior management.
The objectives of this committee As at 8 March 2010, the Company had received notification in are to: accordance with Rule 5.1.
2 R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority from Capital Research assist the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and Management Company, BlackRock Inc. Legal and General in designing, implementing and periodically evaluating the Group Plc, and Norges Bank that they held 10.03 per cent, Companys disclosure controls and procedures: 6.39 per cent, 4.45 per cent and 3.08 per cent respectively of the monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time of notification.
and procedures: review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive and Powers of directors to issue shares Chief Financial Officer with regard to the scope and content The directors require authority from shareholders in relation to the of all public disclosures made by the Company which are of issue of shares by the Company.
Whenever shares are issued, the material significance to the market or investors: and Company has to offer the shares to existing shareholders pro rata review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, to their holdings, unless it has been given authority by matters raised by other components of the disclosure process.
shareholders to issue shares without offering them first to existing These may include, to the extent they are relevant to the shareholders.
The Company seeks authority from its shareholders disclosure process, any matters to be raised with the Group on an annual basis to issue shares, up to a maximum amount, and Audit Committee, the internal auditors or the external auditor to issue up to five per cent of its issued share capital without of the Companys internal controls.
observing pre-emption rights, in line with relevant regulations and In discharging these objectives, the committee helps to support best practice.
Dis-application of statutory pre-emption procedures the certifications by the Group Chief Executive and the Chief is also sought for rights issues.
The Companys existing authorities Financial Officer of the effectiveness of disclosure procedures to issue shares and to do so without observing pre-emption rights and controls required by section 302 of the Act.
are due to expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
An ordinary resolution and a special resolution to approve the The provisions of section 404 of the Act require the Companys renewal of these authorities respectively will be put to management to report on the effectiveness of internal controls shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010. over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20-F, which is filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
To comply Details of shares issued during 2008 and 2009 are given in Note H11 with this requirement to report on the effectiveness of internal on page 264.
No shares were issued in 2007 dis-applying precontrol, the Group has documented and tested its internal controls emption rights, and the total number of shares issued dis-applying over financial reporting in the format required by the Act.
The pre-emption rights by the Company over the last three years annual assessment and related report from the external auditor will amounted to less than 7.5 per cent of the Companys aggregate be included in the Groups annual report on Form 20-F, which will issued share capital over that period.
be published in the coming months.
Powers of directors to buy back shares In addition, the Disclosure Committee has regard to the UK Listing The directors also require authority from shareholders in relation Regime, and evaluates whether or not a particular matter requires to the buying back of shares by the Company.
The Company seeks disclosure to the market.
authority by special resolution on an annual basis for the buyback of its own shares in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other related guidance.
The Company has not made use of that authority since it was last granted at its Annual General Meeting in 2009.
This existing authority is due to expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
A special resolution to approve the renewal of this authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010.
89 Governance Governance report Risk governance Risk governance Risk governance framework Risk management Risk oversight Independent assurance Prudential plc Board Group Executive Risk Committee Group Chief Executive Group Operational Group Audit Risk Committee Group Executive Committee Committee Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee Group Security Chief Financial Group Officer Compliance Group Chief Risk Officer Group-wide Internal Audit Group Risk function Business unit Business unit risk and Business unit chief executives oversight functions audit committees Board Board committees Direct reporting line Management committees Provides support to committees Personnel Regular dialogue and reporting Functions Regular communication and escalation Organisation Risk oversight: Risk exposures are monitored and reviewed by Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of Group-level risk committees, chaired by the Group Chief Risk the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for Officer or the Chief Financial Officer: identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group Executive Risk Committee: meets monthly to oversee Group.
The framework is based on the concept of three lines of the Groups risk exposures market, credit, liquidity, insurance defence: risk management, risk oversight and independent and operational risks and monitor capital.
Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee: meets monthly to monitor the Groups liquidity and oversee the The diagram above outlines the Group-level framework.
activities of the Prudential Capital business unit.
Risk management: As described in the corporate governance Group Operational Risk Committee: reports to the Group report above, primary responsibility for strategy, performance Executive Risk Committee and meets quarterly to oversee the management and risk control lies with the Board, the Group Groups non-financial risk operational, business environment Chief Executive and the chief executives of each business unit.
90 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE The committees oversight is supported by the Group Chief Risk The Group has five objectives for risk and capital management: Officer, with functional oversight provided by: a Framework: design, implement and maintain a capital Group Security: develop and deliver appropriate security management and risk oversight framework consistent with measures to protect the Groups staff, physical assets and the Groups risk appetite and Risk-Adjusted Profitability intellectual property.
Group Compliance: verify compliance with regulatory b Monitoring: establish a no surprises risk management culture standards and inform the Groups senior management and the by identifying the risk landscape, assessing and monitoring risk Board on key regulatory issues affecting the Group.
exposures and understanding change drivers.
Group Risk: establish and embed a capital management and c Control: implement risk mitigation strategies and remedial risk oversight framework and culture consistent with actions where exposures are deemed inappropriate and Prudentials risk appetite that protects and enhances the manage the response to extreme events.
Groups embedded and franchise value.
d Communication: communicate the Group risk, capital and profitability position to internal and external stakeholders and Independent assurance: As described in the corporate rating agencies.
governance report above, the Group Audit Committee, supported e Culture: foster a risk management culture, providing quality by Group-wide Internal Audit, provides independent assurance assurance and facilitating the sharing of best practice risk and oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups system of measurement and management across the Group and industry.
internal control and risk management.
Reporting Principles and objectives The Group Executive Committee and the Board are provided with Risk is defined as the uncertainty that Prudential faces in regular updates on the Groups economic capital position, overall successfully implementing its strategies and objectives.
This position against risk limits and RAP.
They also receive the annual includes all internal or external events, acts or omissions that have financial condition reports prepared by the Groups insurance the potential to threaten the success and survival of Prudential.
The control procedures and systems established within the Group The Group Audit Committee is provided with minutes of the are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Group Operational Risk Committee, and regular updates on meet business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and financial and operational risk exposures.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels of risk-taking with the achievement of Group Head Office oversight functions have clear escalation business objectives.
criteria and processes for the timely reporting of risks and incidents by business units.
As appropriate, these risks and Material risks will only be retained where this is consistent with incidents are escalated to the various Group-level risk committees Prudentials risk appetite framework, i. e. : and the Board.
The retention of the risk contributes to value creation.
Internal business unit routine reporting requirements vary The Group is able to withstand the impact of an adverse according to the nature of the business.
Each business unit is outcome.
responsible for ensuring that its risk reporting framework meets The Group has the necessary capabilities, expertise, processes both the needs of the business unit for example, reporting to the and controls to manage the risk.
business unit risk and audit committees and the minimum standards set by the Group for example, to meet Group-level reporting requirements.
Business units review their risks as part of the annual preparation of their business plans, and review opportunities and risks against business objectives regularly with Group Head Office.
Group Risk reviews, and reports to Group Head Office, on the impact of large transactions or divergences from business plan.
91 Governance Governance report Corporate responsibility governance Corporate responsibility governance The Board is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate responsibility in directing and controlling the business.
In terms of the governance of our corporate responsibility strategy, Harvey McGrath, Chairman, has Board level responsibility for social, environmental and ethical risk management.
The Board discusses Prudentials performance in these areas at least once a year and also reviews and approves Prudentials corporate responsibility report and strategy on an annual basis.
Below Board level, the Responsibility Committee is a specialist Group-wide committee.
This committee is responsible for reviewing Prudentials business conduct and social and environmental policy, and ensures consistency of approach across the Groups international businesses.
Consideration of environmental, social and community matters is embedded in our Code of Business Conduct and supported by our corporate responsibility philosophy and programme, which takes into account local cultures and requirements across our businesses.
The Corporate Responsibility team, which is located in our Group Head Office, develops Prudentials corporate responsibility strategy and works closely with individual business units to provide advice.
The team also assists with the development and adaptation of Group-wide initiatives so that they not only fit with our overall Group principles but are also adapted to meet local needs.
