Corporate governance report Corporate governance report In relation to compliance with the Combined Code this report together with the Directors report states the position at 23 February 2010.
The Combined Code compliance statement The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code was issued in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and applies for reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2008.
Explanations of how the Code principles and supporting principles have been applied are set out in the Governance sections of the report and accounts.
The directors believe the Company was in compliance with Section 1 of the Code throughout the year with the following two exceptions which applied throughout the year: Independence of the chairman on appointment Provision A.
2.2 The chairman did not, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in the Code since he had been an employee and executive director of the Company since 1995.
Composition of the Board Provision A.
3.2 There are currently 17 directors, of which seven 41% are independent non-executive directors.
The Code requires that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
The number of senior practitioners from within the operating subsidiaries on the Board does result in a sizeable number of executive directors, making the achievement of the Code target dif cult.
Board meetings The Board meets a minimum of seven times per annum with one meeting devoted entirely to strategic issues.
In months where no formal Board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive directors and the chairman and chief executive is held.
The non-executive directors have informal meetings without the chairman or chief executive present.
Board membership The Board currently consists of a non-executive chairman, eight executive directors and eight other non-executive directors.
The roles of chairman, Mark Powell, and chief executive, Andy Pomfret, are separated and are clearly fide ned in writing and agreed by the Board.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and its development of strategy and the chief executive for the running of the business and implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Board considers that seven of the nine non-executive directors are independent, the exceptions being Mark Powell as explained above and John May, who is a director of a major shareholder, Caledonia Investments plc.
The non-executive directors participate fully with their executive colleagues in Board meetings and have access to any information they need to perform their duties.
They bring an independent judgement to bear on Group policies and strategies as well as management actions and performance, including resourcing and standards of conduct.
The senior independent non-executive director is David Harrel who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that they would rather not address to the chairman or executive directors or which remain unresolved after an approach through the normal channels.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention, which covers key areas of the Groups business.
These include determination of the Groups aims and the strategy to be adopted in achieving those aims, reviews of budgets and financial statements, company acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure and the review of decisions taken by the boards of subsidiary companies.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 32 Corporate governance report Board performance The Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees carry out appraisals of their operation and performance on an annual basis.
In 2009, an internal questionnaire was used.
This was developed and executed with assistance from Lintstock Limited, a London based corporate advisory rm.
This years questionnaire followed up on points raised in the 2008 review as well as considering the acquisition of business from the Lloyds Banking Group and the oversight of the board during the credit crunch of late 2008 and early 2009.
Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertaken either by the chief executive for the executive directors or chairman for the non-executive directors each year and involves meetings with each director on a one-to-one basis.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Board training Rathbones is committed to the training and development of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained and enhanced.
All directors are required to dedicate a certain number of hours to their own development internally established standards for this exceed regulatory requirements.
Training and development would include activities to keep up to date with Rathbones speci c issues and industry, market and regulatory changes.
New directors are involved in a thorough induction process designed to enable them to become quickly familiar with the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of key business areas, attendance at routine meetings and demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
Board Committees The four principal Board Committees are the Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Committee, subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full Board.
The other Board Committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Companys registered of ce and on the Company website.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the chief executive, Andy Pomfret, and comprises Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse, Richard Lanyon and Paul Stockton.
The purpose of the Executive Committee is to monitor every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing basis and to analyse and plan all business proposals in detail for submission to and consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Audit Committee Current members of the Audit Committee are Oliver Corbett chairman, Kate Avery, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews and Mark Robertshaw.
Details of its work are set out in the Audit Committee report.
Remuneration Committee Current members of the Remuneration Committee are Caroline Burton chairman, Kate Avery, James Barclay, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews and Mark Robertshaw.
Full details of its role are set out in the Remuneration report.
Nomination Committee Current members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, Kate Avery, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews, Andy Pomfret and Mark Robertshaw.
Full details of its role are set out in the Nomination Committee report.
33 Corporate governance report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 Con icts of interest A director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that con icts or possibly may con ict with the Companys interests.
The Act allows the Board to authorise a directors con ict or potential con ict of interest where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect and also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors con icts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
Shareholders approved the necessary changes to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM on 7 May 2008.
There are safeguards which apply when directors decide whether to authorise a con ict or potential con ict.
Only independent directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors are also able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation.
A register of actual or potential con icts noti ed and authorised is maintained and reviewed regularly by the Board.
Other Board issues The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of legal action against its directors.
Any director has access to the advice and services of the company secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed and compliance with rules and regulations applicable to the Company.
Any removal or appointment of the company secretary is decided by the Board.
Board meeting and committee attendance in 2009 Plc Board Executive Committee# Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee J C Barclay 7 7 5 7 4 5 1 2 I M Buckley 7 7 12 12 C M Burton 6 7 7 7 5 5 2 2 P D G Chavasse 7 7 11 12 O R P Corbett 7 7 7 7 5 5 2 2 D T D Harrel 7 7 6 7 5 5 2 2 R P Lanyon 7 7 11 12 J M May 7 7 A T Morris 6 7 P G Pearson Lund 7 7 A D Pomfret 7 7 12 12 1 2 G M Powell 7 7 2 2 M Robertshaw 7 7 6 7 4 5 1 2 R I Smeeton 7 7 R P Stockton 7 7 12 12 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting # Scheduled monthly meeting Shareholder relations The Company is committed to ensuring that there is effective communication with all shareholders.
All regulatory news announcements, press releases and financial reports are available on the Company website.
Following the publication of the interim and full year results, presentations are given to major shareholders, fund managers, analysts and employees.
The presentation packs used and any webcasts are also on the website.
Meetings with major shareholders provide an opportunity to discuss governance and strategy issues and to introduce other directors including non-executive directors.
Feedback from these meetings is reported to the Board.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet non-executive directors at the AGM.
At least 20 business days notice of the AGM is given to allow time for proper consideration of the resolutions by shareholders.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
Every effort is made to ensure that all Board members, and in particular committee chairmen, are at the meeting.
The Board welcomes questions and comments from shareholders.
Votes are taken on a show of hands unless a poll is requested and full details of proxy voting gures are disclosed after the vote and on the website.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 34 Corporate governance report Risk management and internal control The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The chairman ensures that Board members receive suf cient and timely information regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their duties and canvasses the views of non-executive directors upon the adequacy of the management information.
Ian Buckley is the director with speci c responsibility for risk management.
He chairs the Risk Management Committee which reports to the Board and comprises all members of the Executive Committee together with the Group heads of personnel, compliance and internal audit.
This committee is an important element in the Groups overall control system and undertakes a review of risk within the Group at its quarterly meetings.
It reports on a regular basis to the Board both on the identi cation of risks and the steps being taken to control or mitigate such risks.
Risk review procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to 23 February 2010.
The other key elements of the Groups overall control systems include: a formal structure of committees and subsidiary company boards where senior staff oversee the operation of the business on a regular basis: an annual budgeting, regular forecasting and monthly financial reporting system for all Group divisions, which enables trends to be evaluated and variances to be acted upon: an internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP required by FSA prudential rules which requires regular assessments of the amounts, types and distribution of capital that the Group considers adequate to cover the nature and level of the risks to which it is or might be exposed: a fide ned set of policies and procedures for treasury operations with limits set by the Banking Committee: a con dential reporting policy, which encourages employees to raise serious concerns about a colleagues or Group companys practice: and the Audit Committee which, on the Boards behalf, examines the effectiveness of the systems of control as explained below.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee con rms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control in existence in the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 and has taken account of material developments since the year end.
Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any signi cant failings or weaknesses identi ed from that review.
This process meets the requirements of the Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance published in September 1999 and revised in October 2005.
Going concern The companys business activities, financial performance in 2009 and the financial position at 31 December 2009 are summarised in the business review on page 23.
Note 28 summarises how the Group manages its financial risk.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future at least 12 months from the date the accounts are signed.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Regulation Rathbone Investment Management Limited, Rathbone Stockbrokers Limited, Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited and Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services Limited are all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Rathbone Investment Management Limited is registered as an investment adviser with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Rathbone Investment Management International Limited is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Rathbone Insurance Limited is regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Rathbone Stockbrokers Limited is a member rm of the London Stock Exchange.
The Board together with the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee have implemented systems and procedures to achieve adherence to the statutes and regulations relevant to each of the Group companies.
Model code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
35 Corporate governance report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009
