Audit committee report Committee members The members of the Audit Committee who served throughout 2009 are the independent non-executive directors Oliver Corbett chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, David Harrel, and Mark Robertshaw.
Kate Avery and Kathryn Matthews joined the Committee on their appointment to the Board on 6 January 2010.
The Board is satis ed that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The chairman is a chartered accountant whilst other members have considerable experience of financial matters.
The Committee met on seven occasions in 2009 2008: six.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 34.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee These are set out in the terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually.
Financial reporting The Committee considers: the signi cant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Companys financial reporting: the Groups accounting policies and any proposed changes: narrative statements and disclosures, to ensure that they are reasonable and consistent with the reported results.
Internal controls and risk management systems The review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls is achieved primarily by the assessment of the work of the Group internal audit department, reports produced by the compliance functions, the half-year and annual financial statements, the scope and findings of the annual external audit and periodic reviews with senior management.
During 2009, the Committee considered an independent review by Grant Thornton of risk governance arrangements and the risk governance framework.
It reviewed the Group structure and a programme of rationalisation: and the accounting policy for acquisitions.
Committee members visited of ces in Bristol, Edinburgh, Liverpool and Winchester as well as London.
It also considered new Financial Reporting Council Guidance on challenges for audit committees arising from current economic conditions.
A separate Risk Management Committee considers risk management issues see page 35.
Internal audit The Group internal audit department reviews Group operations on a continuing basis.
The frequency of reviews is determined by an internal risk-based audit programme which is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also regularly reviews the resources and authority of the Group internal audit department.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 44 Audit committee report External audit The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements and for any recommendation to the Board regarding change of audit rm.
This review includes consideration of the external auditors period in of ce, their compensation and the scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
 LLP resigned as auditors on 3 June 2009 as they were unable to agree mutually acceptable audit fees for the 2009 audit with the Company.
The Board appointed KPMG Audit Plc to ll the vacancy arising on the resignation of  LLP on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
A full tender process was not undertaken as a full review had been undertaken in 2006.
The Committees view was that there were a limited number of rms with the skill and experience needed to audit a Group with a banking subsidiary.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied by the auditors and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Prior approval by the Audit Committee is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is expected to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditors should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without the prior written approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the auditors to provide certain non-audit services.
The Committee is satis ed that the independence of the auditors has not been impaired by providing these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 7 on page 75.
The Committee also reviews the audit engagement letters each year and has discussions with the auditors with no management present.
Regarding the 2009 audit, presentations were received from the auditors on audit progress, findings and recommendations and unadjusted errors.
Whistleblowing The Audit Committee also approves signi cant changes to the Groups Public Interest Disclosure Act con dential reporting or whistleblowing policy.
Other On invitation, the finance director, other executive directors, compliance of cers, senior internal audit staff and the external auditors attend meetings to assist the Committee to ful l its duties.
The Committee can access independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
The Committee performs an annual review of its performance and this is also reviewed by the Board.
45 Audit committee report Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009
