Nomination committee report Committee members The members of the Nomination Committee who served throughout 2009 are Mark Powell chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Andy Pomfret and Mark Robertshaw.
Kate Avery and Kathryn Matthews joined the Committee on their appointment to the Board on 6 January 2010.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in 2009 2008: two.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 34.
It also had informal discussions on a number of other occasions during the year.
Role of the Committee The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of directors: the Board as a whole decides upon any such appointment.
An external search consultancy and or open advertising are used when recruiting new directors.
When considering possible candidates, the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
All directors are required to seek election by the members at the AGM following their appointment, and re-election every three years.
A non-executive director is not appointed for a xed term but would not normally serve as a director for more than nine years.
The Committee are mindful of the Combined Code requirement that any term beyond six years for a non-executive director should be subject to particularly vigorous review and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Towards the end of 2009, a rm of headhunters was approached regarding the recruitment of new non-executive directors.
From a long list, a shortlist of candidates was then produced and interviewed.
Three candidates were then interviewed by the Committee whose recommendation to the Board was that Kate Avery and Kathryn Matthews be appointed.
The 2008 Board evaluation process highlighted a desire to increase non-executive committee members exposure to senior management below Board level.
This has been done by visits to Group of ces, the holding of a Board meeting in our Edinburgh of ce for the first time and the introduction of a programme of Board presentations on important business areas or issues.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2009 46 Nomination committee report
