72 The Capita Group Plc Corporate governance Martin Bolland was appointed Non-Executive Chairman from 1 January The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the 2010 and whilst a recruitment process is undertaken for new independent Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance directors Martin has continued in his role of Senior Independent Director June 2008 the Combined Code for which the Board is accountable.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is available as Non-Executive Chairman and Senior Independent Director, as necessary, to lead meetings The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions of of the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being Section 1 of the Code, except in respect of the composition of the Board.
present and is available to meet with shareholders to understand any Composition of the Board A.
3.2 This is shown in the table below: concerns.
Biographies of the Directors can be found on pages 70 to 71.
Period Balance of Board Directors Board responsibilities and effectiveness 1 January Non-Executive Chairman Eric Walters The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for setting the 31 December 2009 5 Executive Directors Paul Pindar, Gordon Hurst, direction of the business and monitoring the Groups ongoing affairs.
Simon Pilling, Maggi Bell It is also responsible for ensuring an effective internal control environment and Paddy Doyle that identies and manages appropriately the risks associated with the 3 Independent Martin Bolland, Martina business as set out on pages 27 to 28.
Non-Executive Directors King and Bill Grimsey The Board demonstrates its commitment to the strategic direction and From 1 January Non-Executive Chairman Martin Bolland control of the Group by scheduling a series of meetings in the year.
It can 28 February 2010 5 Executive Directors Paul Pindar, Gordon Hurst, meet as necessary outside of this schedule to consider any urgent matters Simon Pilling, Maggi Bell that may arise.
It sets the strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring and Paddy Doyle sufficient financial and human resources are in place to meet those aims.
2 Independent Martina King and The Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that its Non-Executive Directors Bill Grimsey obligations to clients, employees, suppliers, shareholders, the community and other key stakeholders are understood and met.
From 1 March 2010 Non-Executive Chairman Martin Bolland 4 Executive Directors Paul Pindar, Gordon Hurst, The Board has a formal schedule of matters that can only be decided by Simon Pilling and the Board.
This schedule has been reviewed during the year and the key Maggi Bell matters reserved to the Board include: 2 Independent Martina King and Non-Executive Directors Bill Grimsey The Groups business strategy 1 Non-Executive Director Paddy Doyle Annual financial and operating plans The Board continues to believe that the Board and its committees consist Financial reporting of directors with an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence Dividend policy and knowledge of the Company to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Internal controls and risk management via the Audit Committee Remuneration policy via the Remuneration Committee Board changes in the year There were no changes to the Board during the year as all changes Treasury policy and significant fundraising described below became effective after the year-end.
Appointment removal of Directors and Company Secretary.
Eric Walters stood down from the Board from 1 January 2010 and the The Board also considers regular reports from the Chief Executive, Group Board appointed Martin Bolland as Non-Executive Chairman.
Paddy Doyle Finance Director, Chief Operating officer and Business Development is moving to a non-executive position from 1 March 2010.
The Board is provided with complete, timely and relevant changes the Board are actively recruiting further Independent Noninformation to ensure that informed judgements are made in pursuit of Executive Directors and once these have been appointed the relevant the Groups objectives.
Martin Bolland will continue as Senior Independent Director for the time being.
The Board also reviews the performance of management in meeting business objectives, plans the succession of key executives, and determines These changes were part of the Boards orderly succession planning appropriate remuneration levels through the Remuneration Committee, a and arrangements.
Martin Bolland, Martina King and Bill Grimsey are regarded as independent Paul Pindar, as Chief Executive, is responsible for all aspects of the and free from any business or other relationship that could materially operation and management of the Group.
The Board accepts that Paddy Doyle is not independent, but his experience of the Company means the Board feel the The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge, contribution he continues to make is valuable.
independently and constructively, the business development plans that are proposed by executive management and monitor the performance of For each appointment the Board undertook a formal appointment the management teams in the delivery of agreed business objectives and process, led by the Nomination Committee and, where appropriate, with targets.
The Non-Executive Chairman encourages and engages in an open the assistance of independent external search consultants.
dialogue with Non-Executive Directors who are at liberty to meet with him as a group or individually as they feel t, without the presence of Board composition Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a The Directors acknowledge the need to segregate the responsibility for year without the Executive Directors present.
operating the Board from the management of the underlying business.
Consequently, the roles of Non-Executive Chairman Eric Walters for the Directors and ofcers liability insurance is maintained.
period under review and Martin Bolland from 1 January 2010 and Chief Executive Paul Pindar are separate.
Director induction and professional development On joining the Board, all Directors participate in an induction programme involving appropriate documentation, meetings and visits to Capita businesses with other Directors, attendance at monthly operational business MOB review meetings and discussions with advisers and senior management from across the Group.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 73 No person, other than a Director retiring at the meeting, shall be During the year, the Directors received appropriate ongoing briengs and information, including updates on governance and regulatory issues, to appointed or re-appointed a Director of the Company at any general enable them to perform their roles.
They also attended external courses meeting unless he she is recommended by the Directors.
Specic briengs were given to the Executive Directors No person, other than a Director retiring at a general meeting as set out on the Combined Code, Companies Act 2006 and Disclosure and above, shall be appointed or re-appointed unless between 7 and 35 days Transparency Rules during the year.
notice, executed by a member qualied to vote on the appointment or An induction was also given to Martin Bolland on his appointment as re-appointment, has been given to the Company of the intention to Non-Executive Chairman.
propose that person for appointment or re-appointment, together with notice executed by that person of his her willingness to be appointed or All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters re-appointed.
relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various committees of the Board, at the Groups expense.
The Company Secretary, The Non-Executive Chairman and, where appropriate, the Non-Executive Gordon Hurst, who is also Group Finance Director, is available to all Directors have, following the evaluation process described above, Directors and he is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are considered the performance of Paul Pindar, Simon Pilling and Bill Grimsey, complied with.
As with all Board positions and responsibilities this who are subject to re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and combined role is regularly reviewed.
are satisfied that they continue to be effective and demonstrate a clear commitment to the role.
The Board appointed a Deputy Company Secretary in 2008 to deal with the increase in size and diversity of this area.
The duties of the Deputy Membership of the committees Company Secretary include coordinating and managing the provision of Membership of the Companys standing committees during the year is company secretarial services to the Group on behalf of Gordon Hurst, the shown below: Group Finance Director and Company Secretary, and acting as Secretary Eric Martin Martina Bill to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Deputy Walters Bolland King Grimsey Company Secretary has direct access and responsibility to the Chairman Nomination C and the Chairs of all the standing committees and open access to all the Directors.
The Board continues to keep this under review and currently feel Remuneration C that this combination works best for the business as a whole.
Audit C Board performance evaluation C Chairman An evaluation of Board and committee effectiveness was conducted in Following changes to the Board on 1 January 2010 the committees are as 2009.
The evaluation took the form of discussions and meetings with the follows: Directors in relation to the Board and any committee of which they were a member at the time of the evaluation.
The evaluation was continuous to Martin Martina Bill Bolland King Grimsey ensure a full review was undertaken at points across the year.
One area that was raised was the potential effects of changing legislation with the Nomination C full implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
In response to this Remuneration C feedback, additional briengs were offered on this area and undertaken in November 2009.
The Board concluded that the Board and its committees Audit C continue to operate effectively in accordance with the Companies Act C Chairman 2006 and good corporate governance.
Martin Bolland will stand down from both the Remuneration Committee The performance of individual Executive Directors is appraised annually and the Audit Committee once appropriate replacements are recruited by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the to the Board.
Paddy Doyle is not independent and therefore will only be Non-Executive Chairman, Eric Walters in 2009, was reviewed by the appointed to the Nomination Committee, but will be available to the Non-Executive Directors, led by Martin Bolland, taking into account the Audit and Remuneration Committee as required.
views of the Executive Directors for the period ending December 2009.
The performance review of the Chief Executive is conducted by the Nomination Committee Non-Executive Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
The Nomination Committee in 2009 comprised Eric Walters Committee Non-Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Non-Executive Chairman, Martin Bolland, Martina King and Bill Grimsey.
The Committee Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
reports to the Board and its role is to seek suitably skilled and experienced candidates to be Directors and ensure plans are in place for orderly The Board considered, as it had in previous years, the merit of using succession of appointments to the Board.
an external body to manage the performance evaluation process.
It concluded that it remained appropriate for the Deputy Company When considering the constitution of the Board, the Nomination Secretary to manage the performance evaluation process and act in Committee carries out a rigorous review, taking into account the need for accordance with the feedback received.
This ensures that actions could a progressive refresh of the Board.
Core competencies and attributes be undertaken in line with the requirements of the business without required to ll the roles are set out and independent external search incurring additional costs.
consultants engaged, where appropriate, to identify potential candidates.
The Chairman of the Company never takes part in any discussions Appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors regarding the consideration of the appointment of a new chairman.
Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with During the year the Nomination Committee has considered the succession the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of planning of the Board.
Paddy Doyle was considering reducing further his the Companies Act.
business commitments: however the Committee felt that his experience All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting continued to be of value to the Board going forward and therefore after their appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than proposed to the Board that Paddy became a Non-Executive Director from 3 years in accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys 1 March 2010.
Eric Walters decided in November 2009 that he wanted Articles of Association.
74 The Capita Group Plc Corporate governance to stand down from the Board.
Martin Bolland chaired the Nomination At the meeting to review the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee regarding initial discussions concerning Eric Walters Committee considered the level of non-audit services being provided by succession.
As Martin Bolland was proposed as a potential candidate for the Groups Auditors in order to satisfy itself that the objectivity and the role of Non-Executive Chairman, it was decided that the appointment independence of the Auditors were safeguarded.
Details of audit and of the Non-Executive Chairman should be discussed by the Board as a non-audit fees are given in note 8 on page 101.
The lead audit partner is whole.
Therefore the decision to appoint Martin Bolland as Non-Executive rotated at least on a 5-yearly basis.
Chairman was taken by the Board.
Martin Bolland and Eric Walters did not The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the annual business take part in this decision.
assurance programme and for ensuring that the Group Risk and Business Assurance function is adequately sponsored and resourced.
Audit Committee The Committee is kept appraised of all key issues across the Group The Audit Committee comprised the Non-Executive Directors throughout and the potential risks to the business.
It also monitored the resourcing 2009.
Martin Bolland was and remains Chairman of the Audit Committee levels and performance of the Groups Compliance function.
In November and he has significant recent and relevant financial experience, including 2009 the Committee reviewed and approved these business plans.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Martina King and Bill Grimsey.
Audit Committee Martin Bolland will continue to be Chairman of the Audit Committee until meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Non-Executive Chairman, a new Independent Non-Executive Director with relevant financial Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Director Group Compliance, experience is appointed.
Although this is not compliant with the Director Group Risk and Business Assurance and by representatives of Combined Code, Martin Bolland does have the relevant financial the external Auditors.
experience and the other Non-Executive Directors at this time do not.
It was therefore decided that the current arrangements were The Committee met 4 times during the period.
Meetings are planned in the best interests of both the shareholders and the Company.
around the financial calendar for the Company and the meeting held in May is specically to focus on the risk, internal control and Remuneration Committee compliance agendas.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the The Chairman of the Committee is directly available to and holds regular Directors remuneration report on pages 79 to 84. meetings with the Director Group Compliance, Deputy Company Secretary, The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Director Group Risk and Business Assurance and external Auditors.
Committees were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and displayed in the investor centre at www.
ensured that these remained in line with the guidance given by the Financial Reporting Council and the Code.
There were no proposed Board and committee members, frequency of meetings changes and this was presented to the meeting held in November 2009. and attendance The terms of reference include the approval of the appointment of the During 2009 the Board met 9 times, excluding ad hoc meetings, solely to Director Group Risk and Business Assurance.
The Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee met once and 3 times during the year, The Committee is also responsible for the policies on whistleblowing respectively.
The Audit Committee met 4 times during the year.
and the provision of the non-audit services by the external Auditors.
Attendance is recorded in the table below.
Both policies are published on the Companys employee intranet.
Nomination Remuneration Audit In accordance with the terms of reference the Committee met separately Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings with the Auditors independently of the Executive Directors and also with the Director Group Risk and Business Assurance.
Scheduled meetings 9 1 3 4 The Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related Eric Walters 9 1 matters during the year, including the half year and annual accounts prior Paul Pindar 9 to their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular on Gordon Hurst 8 critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement that materially impact on reported results.
Paddy Doyle 9 It also monitored the internal controls that are operated by management Simon Pilling 7 to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders.
Maggi Bell 9 The Committee reviewed and approved the Representation Letter required Martina King 8 1 3 4 by the Auditors.
Bill Grimsey 8 1 3 4 The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups Auditors, Martin Bolland 9 1 3 4 and it advises the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the Auditors and on the remuneration for both statutory Any Directors non-attendance at Board meetings or meetings of the audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing Audit, Remuneration or Nomination Committees was due to illness or of the statutory audit with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee annually an absence previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief performs an independent assessment of the suitability and performance Executive or the Chairman of the relevant committee.
of the Auditors in making its recommendation to the Board for their re-appointment.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Committee met with the Group Finance Director to discuss the The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding of re-appointment of the Auditors and their performance over the preceding objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders.
This discussion also included the scope of the audit that was of this process the Executive Directors make regular presentations and required.
This process meant the Committee could discuss in detail the meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any issues of concern, to re-appointment and recommend the re-appointment of the Auditors to obtain feedback and to consider Corporate Governance issues.
All the the Board, which it did.
Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders to understand their views more fully.
The Non-Executive Chairman is personally available to the significant shareholders in the Group.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 75 A framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day responsibility for managing shareholder communications and always acts business risks, including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, in close consultation with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee consisting information security, regulatory and fraud.
The framework also includes of the Corporate Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group specic provision for risk-based due diligence in respect of business Finance Director ensures all appropriate communications are made to the acquisitions and new customer contracts.
Exposure to business risk is London Stock Exchange and shareholders.
Shareholders can also access monitored as an integral part of the MOB review process and by the up-to-date information through the investor centre section of the Groups Audit Committee website at www.
A telephone helpline, 0871 664 The Group risk framework is supplemented in certain of the Groups 0300, provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
businesses, including all financial services related business streams, All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, receive by a number of formally constituted local boards, which in turn are a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and feedback underpinned by dedicated risk committees.
These committees provide that follows the annual and half-yearly presentations to investment an appropriate means to routinely monitor the risk prole of these analysts and shareholders.
All brokers reports and analysts briengs businesses, including regulatory risks, and for proposed mitigating concerning Capita are circulated to the Directors.
actions to be challenged and tracked The Board encourages shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
The Group risk management framework is monitored and developed Directors, including the chairpersons of the various committees, are as required by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function, in present to answer any questions.
The Group encourages communication conjunction with the Group Compliance function, to ensure that it with and the participation of private investors at the Annual General remains appropriate to business requirements and consistent with Meeting.
best practice The Group Risk and Business Assurance function reports to the Group Social and environmental responsibility Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
In addition Details of how the Group manages its social and environmental to independently facilitating the Groups risk management framework, responsibilities can be found on pages 32 to 40 and at www.
co. uk it delivers a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide assurance on .
the effectiveness of the internal control structures operating across the business.
The annual audit programme is focused on areas of greatest Internal control risk to the Group, as determined by the Group risk framework, and the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and independent view of those risks is taken by the Group Risk and Business for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed Assurance function for, inter alia, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition, maintaining proper accounting records and the reliability of In addition, regulatory risks and compliance matters are overseen by financial information used within the business or for publication.
Such a the Group Compliance function reporting through the Group Finance system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
The Group achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Compliance team, in conjunction with dedicated compliance teams absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
There is an within the relevant businesses, independently monitor regulatory ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant compliance by way of risk-based work programmes and support risks faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the year operations in identifying and mitigating regulatory risks as an integral under review and up to the date of approval of the 2009 Annual Report part of the Group risk framework and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups Both the Group Compliance function and the Group Risk and Business key internal control procedures include the following: Assurance function routinely appraise the Groups senior management The Board has responsibility to set, communicate and monitor the and the Audit Committee of their work programmes and findings.
application of policies, procedures and standards in areas including The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of internal operations, finance, legal, commercial and regulatory compliance, control.
The key mechanisms used by the Board to achieve this include human resources and health and safety, information security and regular MOB review reports, periodic updates from the Audit Committee property management and corporate social responsibility and the based on its review of risk management, business assurance and environment and these policies are cascaded to the businesses via the compliance reports by the relevant Group functions: discussions with and MOB review process reports from the external Auditors and other advisers, and periodic reports Authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions from relevant regulators.
that make up the Group is delegated to their respective Managing Based on the above, the Board has concluded that it is satisfied with the Directors, within limits set by the Group including the recruitment of the process of monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and complies underlying management teams.
The Board establishes key operational, with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code functional and financial reporting standards for application across the issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales whole Group and this is cascaded through the MOB review process.
and in the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005.
The Board and the Audit These are supplemented by operating standards set by local Committee have performed a Group-wide review of the effectiveness of management teams, as required for the type of business and the internal control system, including financial, operational and geographical location of each subsidiary and business unit compliance controls and risk management in accordance with the Comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual Combined Code for the period from 1 January 2009 to the date of approval business unit level and summarised at a Divisional and Group level.
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial plans are reviewed and approved by the Board following The implications of the Arch cru situation are still being evaluated as challenge within the MOB review process.
Capital expenditure is subject explained in note 4 on page 97 and note 25 on page 111.
Subject to this to rigorous budgetary control beyond specified levels and detailed evaluation, no significant failings or weaknesses have been identied in the written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Notwithstanding this, the controls within Capita acquisitions is the subject of appropriate consideration, review and Financial Managers have been reviewed and enhanced.
approval by the Board Risk management and governance is also referred to on pages 22 to 23 Results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive and 27 to 28 in this report.
management accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged directly by Executive Directors of the Board on a Group-wide basis and at the business unit level each month 76 The Capita Group Plc Corporate governance None of the Directors of the Company had a material interest in any Group activities The Group is a leading UK provider of business process outsourcing contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than their solutions and professional support services to organisations across the contracts of employment.
The Groups 9 chosen markets are in the public sector: central government, local government, education, health and Voting rights and share capital transport, and in the private sector: life and pensions, insurance, financial On 19 February 2010 the Company had received notications that the services and other corporates.
following were interested in accordance with DTR 5: Percentage On behalf of its clients, the Group aims to improve service quality, reduce of ISC No.
of shares costs of delivery and enable them to transform the way that they deliver Shareholder No.
of shares as at 19 Feb Direct Indirect services to their customers.
The services that the Group provides are Invesco 90,928,607 14.55% 90,928,607 essential to the smooth running and success of its clients operations.
The Group designs, successfully implements and manages tailored service Baillie Gifford & Co 35,854,749 5.74% 35,854,749 solutions, ranging across administration, information technology, Capital Research financial, human resources, property and customer service functions.
and Management The Group maintains leading positions in the majority of its markets due Company 34,595,933 5.54% 34,595,933 to its scale and ability to draw on its wide base of professional services, FMR LLC & Fidelity detailed market knowledge and extensive business process transformation International 28,476,638 4.56% 28,476,638 and change management skills.
Legal & General 27,087,168 4.34% 24,009,959 3,077,209 During the period under review, the Groups business divisions were reorganised.
The Board decided the reorganisation was necessary to Deutsche Bank 18,680,548 2.99% 18,680,548 manage the continued growth in the business and to enhance service 1 provisions across the Group.
The Groups principal activities are now At the date of this report, 624,780,161 ordinary shares of 2 15p each have managed through 5 operating divisions comprising: Insurance & Investor been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Services: ICT, Health & Business Services: Life & Pensions: Professional Exchange.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, options were Services and Integrated Services.
Group support services report direct to exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in Group Executive Directors.
the allotment of 3,355,841 new ordinary shares.
A further 195,823 new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of A review of the development of the Group and its business activities the financial year to the date of this report.
7,805,218 of the issued share during the year is contained in the Business Review on pages 1 to 40. capital is held within an Employee benefit Trust for the use of satisfying Our divisional operations and financial performance are detailed employee share options.
The Company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own profits and dividends issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting in May 2009.
During The Group underlying profit before taxation amounted to 325.1m 2008: the year the Company did not acquire any ordinary shares 2008: 277.2m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 11.2p per share 10,355,046 ordinary shares.
Therefore during the year no shares 2008: 2008: 9.6p per share to be paid on 24 May 2010 to ordinary shareholders 10,355,046 were transferred to the Employee benefit Trust.
No shares on the Register on 16 April 2010.
This gives a total dividend for the year were cancelled during the year and there are no shares held in treasury.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares The Employee benefit Trust has waived its right to receive a dividend on Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares the shares being held within the Trust.
are entitled to participate in the payment of dividends pro rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay an interim dividend and Directors recommend a final dividend, in respect of any accounting period out of the The Directors of the Company currently in ofce are listed on pages profits available for distribution under English law.
A final dividend may be 70 to 71.
Paul Pindar, Simon Pilling and Bill Grimsey will retire at the declared by the shareholders in the General Meeting by ordinary forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves resolution, but no dividend may be declared in excess of the amount for re-election.
No Director has a service contract exceeding 1 year.
Conicts policy At any General Meeting a resolution put to vote at the meeting shall be Under the Companies Act 2006, directors are under an obligation to avoid decided on a poll.
This will be a change from previous years, but the situations in which their interests can or do conict, or may possibly Company feels that this is in line with best practice.
On a poll every conict, with those of the Company.
In response to the conicts of interest member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for provisions, a comprehensive project was undertaken in 2008 to identify every share of which they are the holder.
and disclose any conicts of interest that have arisen or may arise across No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with the Group.
Procedures were implemented for evaluating and managing regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any conicts that have been identied in a way that ensures that decisions are agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions not compromised by a conicted director.
In addition, the Companys on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Articles of Association give the Board the power to authorise matters that give rise to actual or potential conicts.
The Board reports annually on the Restrictions on transfer of shares Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors to, in their absolute authorisation of conicts are operated effectively and that the procedures discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certicated form have been followed.
A policy for ongoing identication and disclosure of which is not fully paid.
They may also refuse to register a transfer of a conicts is in place and is kept under regular review.
share in certicated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly The Board has authorised the conict of Gordon Hurst being a trustee of stamped, at the registered ofce of the Company, or at such other place both the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Capita Group as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a Money Purchase Scheme, and gave specic guidance on this conict going recognised person where a certicate has not been issued in respect of the forward.
Gordon Hurst did not participate in the discussion or vote on the share is accompanied by the certicate for the share to which it relates guidance given.
No other conicts of interest declared were material to the Board.
All conicts of interest are reviewed on an annual basis by the Board and are revisited as part of the year-end process by the Directors.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 77 In keeping with its belief that employees are the Groups most valuable and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
They may also refuse to asset, the Group operates employee awards schemes.
These celebrate the register any such transfer where it is in favour of more than 4 transferees core values that embody the organisation and reward employees for or in respect of more than 1 class of shares.
service excellence, effective teamwork, service to the community and innovation.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncerticated form in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted Payment of suppliers from the requirement under the Uncerticated Securities Regulations to The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers register the transfer.
In 2009 the Company had an average of 40 days purchases 2008: 41 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its Charitable and political donations future development, performance and position are set out in the Business During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.5m 2008: 0.6m.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, No political contributions were made.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 22 to 26. charitable donations and work within the community can be found on In addition note 26 to the financial statements on page 111 includes the pages 39 and 40 and at www.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments Financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, bank loans, The Group has considerable financial resources together with long term finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of these is to raise contracts with a wide range of public and private sector clients and funds for the Groups operations.
In addition various other financial suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise directly from placed to manage its business risks successfully.
From time to time, the Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward After making enquiries, and in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage interest risk and and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, the currency risk, arising from the Groups operations and its sources of Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group finance.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group borrows in selected currencies at xed and oating rates of Disabled persons interest and makes use of interest rate swaps and currency swaps to It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for generate the desired interest prole and to manage its exposure to employment of disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to interest rate uctuations.
participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance between to continue in their employment or to be retrained for other positions in continuity of funding and exibility through the use of multiple sources of the Group.
funding including bonds, bank loans, unsecured loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts, over a broad spread of maturities.
Employee involvement In respect of credit risk, the Group trades only with recognised, The Group is committed to involving all employees in the performance creditworthy third parties.
It is the Groups policy that all clients who wish and development of the Group.
Its approach to employee development to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verication procedures.
offers continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with development.
The Group supports employees through a comprehensive the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
range of key business and management skills courses and an annual With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the management development programme.
Capita Academy and Capita Group, such as cash, financial investments and derivative instruments, Managers Academy were launched at the end of 2009 to provide a more the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty.
comprehensive approach to key skills training and personal development.
The Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration The Group encourages all its employees to participate fully in the business of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group through: assurance from the counterparties to ensure that they can full frequent email notices: internal notice board statements: Capita their obligations.
Connections, the Group employee intranet, and Capita Online, a regular The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency risk, email communication reviewing the performance of the Group from the except in respect of its overseas operations in India, which generates perspective of the Directors.
During 2009, the Companys intranet was exposure to movements in the Indian Rupee exchange rate.
The Group redeveloped and re-launched to meet the needs of all our employees.
seeks to mitigate the effect of this exposure by entering forward currency These communication initiatives enable employees to manage their work instruments, in the form of non-deliverable forward contracts, to x the more efficiently and to share information within and between business Sterling cost of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in units and employees are encouraged to contribute news, views and Indian Rupees.
Further details of the Group's financial instruments can be feedback.
The Group maintains a strong communications network and found in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements on page 111. employees are encouraged, through its open door policy, to discuss with management matters of interest to the employee and subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
The Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee Save As You Earn Scheme, and the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a share incentive plan, are both rmly established and are designed to promote employee share ownership and to give employees the opportunity to participate in the future success of the Group.
Approximately 23% of the Groups eligible employees have share options or own Capita shares.
78 The Capita Group Plc Corporate governance Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are under an obligation to statements and auditors disclose any indemnities which are in force in favour of their directors.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for The current Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of in favour of the Directors of the Company which indemnifies them in the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for respect of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur in the that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: execution of their duties as Directors.
Copies of the relevant extract from Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently the Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent and will be available at the venue of the 2010 Annual General Meeting State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Auditors will be put Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate forward at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no relationship with the Auditors and the key safeguards are: information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware.
The Group Finance Director monitors the independence of the Auditors as part of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness and reports Each of the Directors has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably to the Audit Committee be expected to have taken to be aware of all relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the audit fee against other comparable companies both within and outside of its The Directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process above requirements.
The Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which fees accruing to the Auditors, and specic assignments are discussed in disclose with reasonable accuracy at anytime the financial position of the advance with the Auditors and agged for the approval of the Audit Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Committee as appropriate and in accordance with the Companys Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors.
The Audit of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Committee reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on detection of fraud and other irregularities.
an annual basis and considers implications for the objectivity and To the best of each Directors knowledge, the financial statements independence of the relationship with the Auditor.
contained within this 2009 Annual Report and Accounts give a true and Ensuring conicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a is involved.
Such conicts may arise across public or private sector whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development customers and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the determinant in the award process for external audit assignments.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Powers of Directors Details of the principal risks and uncertainties can be found on page 28.
The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Articles of Association Annual General Meeting of the Company and to any directions given by special resolution, including The 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at the Companys power to repurchase its own shares.
Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB, on 11 May 2010.
At the AGM a number of resolutions will be The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special proposed.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which was resolution of the Companys shareholders.
sent to shareholders with the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts and includes notes explaining the business to be transacted.
In May 2009, Change of control shareholders granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 62.1m All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a ordinary shares which will expire at the conclusion of the 2010 AGM.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest shares were purchased during 2009.
A resolution to renew this authority and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
of any performance conditions at that time.
At the AGM in May 2009 the Directors proposed that the name of the The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banks Company be changed to Capita plc with effect from 31 December 2009. and other financial institutions.
The Groups bank debt contains a change Unfortunately due to a change in the regulations implemented on of control provision under which the banks may require immediate 1 October 2009 and outside of our control, we are unable at this time repayment in full on change of control.
The bonds issued by the Group to change the Company name.
We will keep this potential change contain a change of control provision which requires the Group to offer to under review.
prepay the bonds in full if a change of control event occurs and the Group does not obtain an investment grade credit rating.
There are no other significant contracts in place that would take effect, alter or terminate on the change of control of the Company.
