GRA 3 Risk Part1A 09 117-150. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1A 09 15 3 10 09:22 Page 118 Business review continued Risk, capital and liquidity governance The risk, capital and liquidity management strategies are owned and set by the Groups Board of Directors, and implemented by executive management led by the Group Chief Executive.
There are a number of committees and executives that support the execution of the business plan and strategy, as set out below.
Representation by and interaction between the individual risk disciplines is a key feature of the governance structure, with the aim of promoting cross-risk linkages.
Note: For key changes to the risk, capital and liquidity governance structure, refer to the table overleaf.
unaudited 118 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 3 Risk Part1A 09 117-150. qxp:GRA 3 Risk Part1A 09 15 3 10 09:22 Page 119 Business review Risk, capital and liquidity management The role and remit of these committees is as follows: Committee Focus Membership Group Audit Committee Financial reporting and the application of accounting Independent non-executive directors GAC policies as part of the internal control and risk assessment process.
From a historical perspective, GAC monitors the identification, evaluation and management of all significant risks throughout the Group.
Board Risk Committee A new committee, formed to provide oversight and advice At least three independent non-executive BRC to the Group Board in relation to current and potential future directors, one of whom is the Chairman risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy.
Reports of the Group Audit Committee to the Group Board, identifying any matters within its remit in respect of which it considers an action or improvement is needed, and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Provides quantitative and qualitative advice to the Remuneration Committee upon the Group Remuneration Policy and the implications for risk management.
Executive Credit Group Formed to replace the Advances Committee and the Group Chief Executive ECG Group Credit Committee, the ECG decides on requests Head of Restructuring and Risk for the extension of existing or new credit limits on behalf Group Chief Risk Officer of the Board of Directors which exceed the delegated Group Chief Credit Officer authorities of individuals throughout the Group as Chief Executive Officer from each division determined by the credit approval grid.
The Head of Group Finance Director Restructuring and Risk or the Group Chief Credit Officer must be present along with at least one other member to ensure the meeting is quorate.
Executive Committee A newly formed committee responsible for managing Group Chief Executive ExCo Group wide issues and those operational issues material Business and function heads, as determined by the to the broader Group.
Group Chief Executive Board Head of Restructuring and Risk Group Finance Director Group Risk Committee Recommends limits and approves processes and major Head of Restructuring and Risk GRC policies to ensure the effective management of all Group Chief Risk Officer material risks across the Group.
Group Head of each risk function Group Head of Country Risk Global Head of Risk Architecture Deputy Group Finance Director Chief Operating Officer, RBS Risk Management Chief Executive and Chief Risk Officer from each division Group Asset and Liability Identifies, manages and controls the Group Group Finance Director Management Committee balance sheet risks.
Deputy Group Finance Director GALCO Head of Restructuring and Risk Chief Executive from each division Group Chief Accountant Group Treasurer and Deputy Group Treasurer Chief Financial Officer, ABN AMRO Director, Group Corporate Finance Director, Group Financial Planning & Analysis Head of Balance Sheet Management, Group Treasury Executive Risk Forum Acts on all strategic risk and control matters across the Group Chief Executive ERF Group including, but not limited to, credit risk, market Head of Restructuring and Risk risk, operational risk, compliance and regulatory risk, Group Chief Risk Officer enterprise risk, treasury and liquidity risk, reputational Group Finance Director risk, insurance risk and country risk.
Chief Executive Officer from each division Note: These committees are supported at a divisional level by a risk governance structure embedded in the businesses.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 119
