GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 214 Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, which are permitted by the Code since the Chairman was considered business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
The companys Audit, Nominations, Risk and Remuneration Committees are otherwise composed solely of nonThroughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the company has executive directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
The NYSE complied with all of the provisions of the Combined Code issued by the corporate governance listing standards also require that a Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code except in the compensation committee has direct responsibility to review and approve following respects: Group Chief Executive remuneration.
As disclosed already, in the case of the company, the Board, rather than the Remuneration Committee, First, in relation to the provision that the Remuneration Committee reserves the authority to make the final determination of the should have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
Chairman and executive directors, the company considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for the Board.
No director The Group Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the NYSE is involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
corporate governance listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
In May 2009, the Secondly, during the period from 6 February 2009 to 1 June 2009, company submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE the company did not have a senior independent director and from confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable 6 February 2009 to 4 August 2009, the Remuneration Committee provisions.
More detailed information about the Audit Committee and its comprised two independent non-executive directors and the work during 2009 is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 219 Chairman of the Board, not the three independent non-executive to 221. directors required by the Code.
Since the appointment of Sandy Crombie as Senior Independent Director on 1 June 2009 and as a Board of directors member of the Remuneration Committee on 4 August 2009, at which The Board is the main decision-making forum for the company.
It has time the Chairman of the Board stepped down from the overall responsibility for management of the business and affairs of the Remuneration Committee, the company has been compliant with Group, the establishment of Group strategy and capital raising and both of these provisions of the Code.
allocation, and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board considers strategic issues and The company has also complied with the Financial Reporting Council ensures the Group manages risk effectively through approving and Guidance on Audit Committees issued in October 2008 in all material monitoring the Groups risk appetite, considering Group stress respects.
scenarios and agreed mitigants and identifying longer term strategic threats to the Groups business operations.
The Board has a formal Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act, specific schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the companys affairs standards of corporate governance and business and financial reserved to it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually.
disclosures apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
The company complies with all applicable sections of the Act.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads The company supports and has engaged fully with the review of the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all governance in banks and financial institutions undertaken by Sir David executive and non-executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive has Walker and has taken various steps, as described throughout this report responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the to implement the recommendations of the Walker review, details of authority delegated by the Board.
Responsibility for the development of which can be found in the Recent Publications section at policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the www.
Group Chief Executive and other executive directors.
The New York Stock Exchange All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and the As a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares ADS representing financial and risk management of the company.
Meetings of the Board ordinary shares, preference shares and debt securities listed on the are structured to allow open discussion.
New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the company must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from At the beginning of the year, a number of Board meetings are those followed by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance scheduled.
For 2009, ten Board meetings were scheduled.
In addition, the company must comply fully with the were supplied with comprehensive papers in advance of each Board provisions of the listing standards that relate to the composition, meeting covering the Groups principal business activities.
The Group responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
These provisions Chief Executive provides a written report on business activities at each incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of the US Board meeting.
Members of executive management attend and make Securities Exchange Act of 1934. regular presentations at meetings of the Board.
The Chairman and the non-executives meet at least once per year without executives present.
The company has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSEs corporate The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and has governance listing practices, with the exception that the Chairman of established procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers for the Board is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and was a authorising directors conflicts of interest are being operated effectively.
member of the Remuneration Committee until 4 August 2009, both of With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 introduced a 214 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
