GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 225 Directors remuneration report Governance The Remuneration Committee Towers Watson also provided professional services in the ordinary The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Colin Buchan course of business, including actuarial advice and benefits committee Chairman since February 2009, Sandy Crombie, Penny administration services to subsidiaries of the Group and investment Hughes and John McFarlane.
The members of the Remuneration consulting and actuarial advice to the trustees of some of the Groups Committee are all independent non-executive directors.
The advisers to the Remuneration Committee are each member at meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2009 is appointed independently by the Committee, which reviews its selection shown on page 217. of advisers annually.
The Committee is satisfied that the consultants from Towers Watson who advise the Committee operate independently Jim Currie, Janis Kong, Sir Tom McKillop, Bob Scott and Peter of the consulting teams undertaking other work with the Group.
Sutherland were members of the Committee until February 2009 when they ceased to be directors.
Group-wide remuneration policy The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is to provide, in the Philip Hampton was a member of the Remuneration Committee until context of the Groups business strategy, remuneration in form and 4 August 2009, when he was replaced as a member by Sandy Crombie.
amount which will attract, retain, motivate and reward high calibre employees to deliver superior long-term business performance within The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the overview of the acceptable risk parameters.
The remuneration policy is designed to Groups Policy on Remuneration, as well as considering executive ensure that the Groups metrics, reward structures and governance remuneration and, as required, making recommendations to the Group processes as a whole provide comprehensive coverage of the key risks Board in respect of the remuneration arrangements of the executive in an appropriate way.
The Board as a whole reserves the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of directors as it An overarching set of principles has been implemented which provides considers that this two-stage process allows greater consideration and a framework for the design of reward programmes across the Group.
evaluation and is consistent with the unitary nature of the Board.
No Policy standards ensure reward, benefits and support packages are director is included in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
provided which are aligned to business objectives and which are market facing and appropriately aligned with shareholders long term interests.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for setting the The aspirations of the Group must be supported by reward remuneration arrangements for members of the Group Executive programmes that recognise the capabilities and achievements of Committee and Management Committee and any employees falling individual employees and that reward significant and sustained within the definition of principle 8 of the FSA Code.
Details of the FSA individual and business unit performance.
The key aspects of the remuneration policy are as set out below: The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been reviewed.
The revised terms of reference extend the remit of the Pay-for-performance Committee to oversight of Group-wide remuneration policy to ensure The pay-for-performance systems should be underpinned by a that the Groups remuneration arrangements are consistent with and robust performance management system.
The Committee will undertake a regular review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the remuneration Reward should be linked to business performance and appropriate policy to ensure it is fully aligned with the Groups long-term objectives.
account should be taken of risk factors associated with that The Committee receives a number of reports to assist it in its oversight business.
of remuneration policy, such as on risk and management performance across the Group.
Market facing Reward offerings in the markets where the Group operates should be During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from understood and reward programmes should be designed and Watson Wyatt now Towers Watson on matters relating to directors developed that offer value for money.
remuneration in the UK, together with advice from the Group Director, Human Resources and the Group General Counsel and Group Total compensation comprising base pay progression and variable Secretary on general remuneration matters.
In addition, the pay, benefits and long-term incentives should generally target a Remuneration Committee has taken account of the views of the Group market position consistent with ensuring competitiveness and which Chief Executive on performance assessment of the executive directors allows a higher positioning for the highest performers.
and members of the Group Executive Committee and Management Committee.
Allow for customisation The composition of reward should allow for customisation through Towers Watson are signatories to the voluntary Code of Conduct in individual choice.
relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The relationship between the Remuneration Committee and Towers Watson takes Reward should support the diversity of the Groups employees.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 225
