GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:28 Page 215 Governance statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
Since that date, directors specific requirements.
Directors are advised of appropriate the Board has considered, and where appropriate authorised, any training and professional development opportunities and undertake the actual or potential conflicts of interests that directors may have.
The training and professional development they consider necessary in Walker review recommends that the Chairman should be expected to assisting them to carry out their duties as a director.
commit a proportion of his time, probably not less than two thirds, to the business.
In November 2009, Philip Hampton joined the Board of Anglo In line with recommendations of the Walker review, the company is American plc as a non-executive director.
This appointment was fully currently undertaking a comprehensive review of its Board induction disclosed to the Board and it was satisfied that there were no issues in and continuing development programme for directors.
As a result, the relation to his time commitment to RBS.
Philip Hampton has confirmed induction programme has recently been expanded to include sessions that RBS remains his priority.
with external advisers as well as the heads of key business areas.
Board balance and independence Performance evaluation The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors Following the Board evaluation last year, a number of initiatives were and eight independent non-executive directors.
The Board functions implemented in 2009 aimed at improving the overall performance and effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an appropriate size.
effectiveness of the Board, including further Board appointments, The directors provide the Group with the knowledge, mix of skills, restructuring Board agendas and papers and allowing more time at experience and networks of contacts required.
The Board Committees Board meetings to consider strategic issues.
In addition, reporting to the comprise directors with a variety of relevant skills and experience so Board on risk matters, capital, liquidity and funding was enhanced.
that no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
The Board has again undertaken a formal and rigorous evaluation of its The non-executive directors combine broad business and commercial own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
experience with independent and objective judgement.
The balance between non-executive and executive directors enables the Board to In 2009, this process was independently facilitated by Spencer Stuart, provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest using a detailed framework of questions which was used to structure standards of integrity across the companys business activities.
The the individual meetings held with each director.
Amongst the areas names and biographies of all Board members are set out on pages 8 reviewed were the role and organisation of the Board and its and 9.
Committees, Board composition and the staffing of Committees, Board processes, the structure and frequency of meetings, Board and The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on Committee reporting, and external relationships including those with appointment and all non-executive directors are independent for the shareholders and regulators.
The Board has considered and discussed purposes of the Code.
The standard terms and conditions of the reports on the outcomes of the evaluations and is satisfied with the way appointment of non-executive directors are available on the Group in which the evaluations have been conducted.
com and copies are available on request.
The evaluation concluded that the Board is operating effectively and has Re-election of directors benefited from the reduction in size and changes in composition which Directors must stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every have been successfully implemented during 2009.
The composition of three years.
Any non-executive directors who have served for more than the Board and staffing of key Committees, along with the shape of nine years will also stand for annual re-election and the Board will Board agendas and meeting formats are under continual review to build consider their independence at that time.
on this and further increase effectiveness.
The separation of responsibilities between the Audit Committee and the newly formed The names of directors standing for election at the 2010 Annual General Board Risk Committee to meet the recommendations of the Walker Meeting are included on page 212 and further information is given in the review will assist the Group in focusing on risk management as a whole Chairmans letter to shareholders in relation to the companys Annual and continuing to improve on areas such as risk analysis and reporting.
Separately, the Senior Independent Director canvassed the views of the Information, induction and professional development executive directors and met with the non-executive directors individually All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all and as a group, without the Chairman present, to consider his relevant matters, and have access to the advice and services of the performance.
The Senior Independent Director also canvassed views Group General Counsel and Group Secretary who is responsible to the from UKFI, the FSA and the Association of British Insurers.
The results Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that of this were then shared with the Chairman.
applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, all The Board is satisfied that no potential conflict of interest exists between conducting this directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent professional board evaluation and the other executive search services which Spencer Stuart has provided advice at the companys expense.
for the Group in 2009 in its operating divisions.
Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, including visits to the Groups major businesses and meetings with directors and senior management.
The induction is tailored to the RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 215
