GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 218 Corporate governance continued Internal control Internal control over financial reporting The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanescontrol that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and financial reporting as of 31 December 2009. compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over likelihood of it crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal financial reporting as of 31 December 2009 based on the criteria set control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework.
absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2009, the Groups internal control over financial reporting The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation is effective.
and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 and to 24 The Groups auditors have audited the effectiveness of the Groups February 2010, the date the directors approved the Report and internal control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and meets opinion.
the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Managements report on the Groups internal control over financial Council in October 2005.
Enhancements have been made to the Risk reporting will be filed with the SEC at the same time as the Annual Management Framework during throughout 2009 and further Report on Form 20-F. improvements will be made in 2010.
Disclosure controls and procedures The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed As required by US regulations, the effectiveness of the companys regularly by the Board, the Audit Committee and, since January 2010, disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the rules under the the Board Risk Committee.
Executive management committees or US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 have been evaluated.
This boards of directors in each of the Groups businesses receive regular evaluation has been considered and approved by the Board which has reports on significant risks facing their business and how they are being instructed the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director to controlled.
In addition, the Board receives monthly risk management certify that, as at 31 December 2009, the companys disclosure controls reports.
Details of the Groups approach to risk management are given and procedures were adequate and effective and designed to ensure in the Risk, capital and liquidity management section of the Business that material information relating to the company and its consolidated review.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation that subsidiaries would be made known to them by others within those management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action to remedy entities.
any failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of the RBS group framework of controls.
Changes in internal control There was no change in the companys internal control over financial The Groups independent auditors present to the Audit Committee reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has reports that include details of any significant internal control matters materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the companys internal control over financial reporting.
authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision and Regulatory reviews and developments sections on pages 361 and 362.
218 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
