GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 219 Governance Audit Committee Report In addition the Committee had responsibility for the consideration of risk The current members of the Group Audit Committee are Archie Hunter issues throughout 2009.
Chairman, Colin Buchan, Joe MacHale and Philip Scott.
All served throughout 2009 with the exception of Philip Scott who became a Following publication of the Walker review initial recommendations in member of the Committee with effect from 19 January 2010.
All July 2009, the Group Board approved the creation of a Board Risk members of the Group Audit Committee are independent non-executive Committee.
The Group Audit Committee will be informed of risk issues directors.
Art Ryan has been a regular attendee since August 2009 and through appropriate representation at the Board Risk Committee.
has fully participated in the activity of the Committee.
Revised terms of reference for the Group Audit Committee and terms of reference for the Board Risk Committee were approved by the Board on The Audit Committee holds at least six scheduled meetings each year.
A meeting is held immediately prior to submission of the interim and annual financial statements to the Board and the quarterly Interim The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available at Management Statements.
This core programme is supplemented by www.
com and these are considered annually by the Group Audit additional meetings as required.
A total of ten meetings were held in Committee and approved by the Board.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by relevant executive directors, the internal and external auditors and finance and risk The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the management executives.
At least twice per annum the Audit Committee external auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, which takes meets privately with the external auditors.
Since 2000, the Audit into account relevant legislation regarding the provision of such Committee has undertaken an annual programme of visits to the services by an external audit firm.
The Audit Committee reviews the Group's business divisions and control functions.
The object of the policy annually and prospectively approves the provision of audit programme is to allow the Audit Committee to gain a better services and certain non-audit services by the external auditors.
understanding of the Group and an invitation to attend is extended to all non-executive directors.
The programme of future visits is considered Annual audit services include all services detailed in the annual annually and the norm is for two to three visits to be undertaken each engagement letter including the annual audit and interim reviews year.
The Group Audit Committee undertook three visits in 2009. including US reporting requirements, periodic profit verifications and reports to regulators including skilled persons reports commissioned by The Board is satisfied that all the Audit Committee members have recent the Financial Services Authority e. g. Reporting Accountants Reports.
Although the Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee is an Audit Committee Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory audits Financial Expert and is independent, each as defined in the SEC rules required by any Group companies that are not incorporated in the UK.
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related guidance, Terms of engagement for these audits are agreed separately with the members of the Audit Committee are selected with a view to the management, and are consistent with those set out in the audit expertise and experience of the Audit Committee as a whole, and the engagement letter insofar as local regulations permit.
Audit Committee reports to the Board as a single entity.
The designation of a director or directors as an Audit Committee Financial Expert does The prospectively approved non-audit services include the following not impose on any such director, any duties, obligations or liability that classes of service: are greater than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such director as a member of the Audit Committee and Board in the absence capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and relevant of such a designation.
Nor does the designation of a director as an reviews of registration statements: Audit Committee Financial Expert affect the duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the Board.
provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial statements of the Group: The Audit Committee is responsible for: provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, must be assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities and in making rendered by the external auditors: all relevant disclosures in relation to the financial affairs of the Group: tax compliance services: reviewing accounting and financial reporting and regulatory compliance: corporate finance services relative to companies that will remain outside the Group: reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: and restructuring services relating to the Groups customers: and monitoring the Groups processes for internal audit and external audit.
reports providing assurance to third parties over certain of the Groups internal controls prepared under US Statement of Auditing Standards 70 or similar auditing standards in other jurisdictions.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 219 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 220 Corporate governance continued For all other permitted non-audit services, Audit Committee approval Also addressed by the Audit Committee, given the current economic must be sought, on a case by case basis, before the provision of the environment, was management's going concern assessment.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews and particular, the Committee reviewed the evidence to demonstrate that the monitors the independence and objectivity of the external auditors Group had access to sufficient funding and capital over the next 12 when it approves non-audit work to be carried out by them, taking into months.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions consideration relevant legislation, ethical guidance and the level of nonunderlying the analysis and discussed with the external auditors its audit services relative to audit services.
The approval process is review of management's analysis and conclusions.
rigorously applied to prevent the auditors from functioning in the role of management, auditing their own work, or serving in an advocacy role.
The Committee also dedicated a significant proportion of time and Information on the audit and non-audit services carried out by the attention during 2009 to the consideration and approval of the Groups external auditors is detailed in Note 5 to the Groups accounts.
accession to the Asset Protection Scheme the Scheme.
A specific meeting, which was attended by the majority of the Group Board, was The Group Audit Committee was pleased to note progress towards held to consider the Scheme and its impact on the Group.
meeting the Groups strategic plan in 2009.
However, ongoing economic uncertainty continued to affect the Group throughout the period and it In response to the economic crisis the Group Audit Committee formally has recorded significant asset write-downs in its 2009 financial commissioned an independent report on risk reporting within the statements.
As a result, the format and content of risk reporting has undergone significant development during 2009.
In these circumstances, particular attention of the Audit Committee was focused on a number of salient judgments involved in the preparation of As far as it can determine, the Group Audit Committee received all the the accounts: information and material it required to allow it to meet its obligations in respect of the 2009 financial statements.
valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments carried at fair value including the Groups credit market exposures During 2009, the Group Audit Committee regularly reviewed the work of and the disclosures provided: the Groups risk management and internal audit functions.
Additional sessions of the Group Audit Committee were held in 2009 that focused claims reserves in the Groups general insurance business: solely on risk and audit issues.
the accounting treatment of bonus tax: The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the accounting issues relating to the Asset Protection Scheme: effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The outcomes of this actuarial assumptions for the Group Pension Fund: evaluation are considered by the Board together with the Group Audit Committees recommendation on the re-appointment of the external impairment losses in the Groups portfolio of loans and advances auditors or whether to commence an audit tender process.
The annual and available-for-sale securities: evaluation is carried out following completion of the annual accounts and audit.
carrying value of the deferred tax asset: and Deloitte LLP have been the companys auditors since March 2000.
The impairment of goodwill and other purchased intangible assets.
external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner In its consideration of each of these issues, the aims of the Audit has completed his fifth year and accordingly, a new audit partner will Committee have been to: lead the audits for the year ending 31 December 2010.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the companys choice of external understand and challenge the valuation and other accounting auditor.
judgments made by management: review the conclusions of the external auditors and, where applicable, other experts and to understand how they came to their conclusions: and satisfy itself that the disclosures in the financial statements about these estimates and valuations are transparent and appropriate.
220 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 221 Governance The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the  conducted an external review of the Board, for it to submit the Audit Committees recommendations to effectiveness of the Audit Committee in 2005.
In 2009, the Group Audit shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting in relation Committee performance evaluation was conducted externally by to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
Spencer Stuart as part of the Board and Senior Committee evaluation The Board has endorsed the Audit Committees recommendation process.
The evaluation used detailed questionnaires and individual that shareholders be requested to approve the reappointment of meetings were held with each member.
Amongst the areas reviewed Deloitte LLP as external auditors at the Annual General Meeting in were the role of the Board and Committees, composition, meetings and April 2010. processes, performance and reporting, and external relationships.
The Board has considered and discussed reports on the outcomes of the The Audit Committee also fixes the remuneration of the external auditors evaluations and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluations have as authorised by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
been conducted, the conclusions and the actions being progressed.
The Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of the external Since 2005, divisional audit committees have been responsible for auditors.
During 2009, the divisional audit committee structure was revised to reflect organisational changes It is intended that there will be an external review of the effectiveness of including the creation of the Non-Core Division.
The divisional audit Group Internal Audit every three to five years, in line with best practice, committees report to the Audit Committee and the Audit Committee is with internal reviews continuing in the intervening years.
Ernst and satisfied that these committees continue to discharge their terms of Young will conduct an external review of the 2009 performance of reference.
Internal reviews were undertaken of 2008 and 2009 performance, both of which concluded that the function operated effectively and the Board agreed with the Audit Committee findings.
Archie Hunter Chairman of the Audit Committee It is also intended that there will be an external review of the 24 February 2010 effectiveness of the Audit Committee every three to five years, with internal reviews by the Board continuing in the intervening years.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 221
