GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 222 Corporate governance continued Board Risk Committee Report The Board Risk Committee will play a key role in the review, design and Following publication of the Walker reviews initial recommendations in implementation of risk management and measurement strategies and July 2009, the Board approved the creation of a Board Risk Committee.
risk management policy across the Group.
Terms of Reference for the Board Risk Committee, which are compliant with the final Walker review recommendations published on 26 The Board Risk Committee will consider the Groups risk profile relative November 2009, are available at www.
The terms of reference to current and future Group Strategy.
The Committee will report to the will be considered annually by the Board Risk Committee and approved Board following each meeting on its consideration of the risk profile of by the Board.
the Group and any longer term macro or perceived strategic threats to the Group and will make recommendations as appropriate.
The current members of the Board Risk Committee are Philip Scott Chairman, Colin Buchan, Sandy Crombie, Archie Hunter and Joe The Group risk appetite framework remains under development and MacHale.
All members of the Board Risk Committee are independent work continues on enhancing risk limits and key risk measures.
appetite will be regularly reviewed by the Committee and the Committee will make recommendations to the Board as to risk appetite and The Board Risk Committee will hold at least six scheduled meetings tolerance as part of this ongoing process.
The Board Risk Committee held its first meeting on 19 January 2010 and a second on 22 February 2010.
Meetings are held as The Committee will also consider the Groups exposure to country, soon as practicable prior to Group Audit Committee meetings to ensure single name and sector concentration risk and will ensure rigorous that the work of the two Committees is coordinated and consistent.
A stress and scenario testing of the Groups business is undertaken.
The meeting will be held immediately prior to submission of the interim and output of this testing will be reviewed by the Committee with a view to annual financial statements to the Board and the quarterly Interim ensuring appropriate actions are taken where necessary.
In due course Management Statements.
This core programme will be supplemented it will make recommendations to the Group Board regarding related by additional meetings as required.
Board Risk Committee meetings will authorities, limits and mandates.
be attended by relevant executive directors, risk management, finance executives and the internal auditors.
External advice may be sought by As required under the Walker review, the Committee will meet as the Board Risk Committee where considered appropriate.
The Board required to review the due diligence of any proposed strategic Risk Committee has not sought external advice to date.
transaction involving a merger, acquisition or disposal prior to the Group Board approval of the transaction.
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for: The Committee will approve the operational plan for RBS Risk providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and Management.
It will consider the adequacy and effectiveness of potential future risk exposures of the Group and risk strategy, resource and the scope and nature of the work undertaken by the including determination of risk appetite and tolerance: function.
assisting the Board on such other matters as may be referred to it by The Committee will consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the the Board: technology infrastructure supporting the finance and risk management framework.
promoting a risk awareness culture within the Group: and The Committee will review the risk input to divisional bonus pools and reporting to the Board, identifying any matters within its remit in will provide advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk weightings to respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed be applied to performance objectives which are incorporated within the and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
incentive structure for the Groups senior executives.
Qualitative and quantitative information regarding the risks arising from The Committee will ensure that it has substantial oversight of the work the Groups financial instruments required under International Financial being undertaken within the divisions through the existing Divisional Reporting Standard IFRS 7, are incorporated within the financial Audit Committee structure, in conjunction with the Group Audit statements and Business review.
Philip Scott Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 24 February 2010 222 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
