governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rsa | 47 corporate governance This report sets out the Companys approach to corporate governance The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who in 2009.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the Articles, Best Practice set out in section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Code on relevant law and any directions as may be given by the Company in Corporate Governance the Combined Code and sets out the extent general meeting by ordinary shareholder resolution.
The Directors of our compliance with the Combined Code.
may delegate any of their powers or discretions to committees.
compliance with the combined code The Board continues to operate the procedures adopted following Throughout 2009 the Group has complied with the Principles and the introduction of the statutory directors duty to avoid conflicts of Provisions of the Combined Code except that the Group has not interest and these procedures have operated effectively during the year.
The Non-Executive Directors Under the Articles the Board may authorise any conflict of interest.
formally consider each year whether a senior independent director The conflicted Director shall not count towards the quorum or vote is required and remain of the view that the appointment of a senior on any resolution to authorise the conflict of interest and, at the Boards independent director is not appropriate at this time but will have regard discretion, may be excluded from any meeting at which the conflict is to the various recommendations currently under discussion made in under consideration.
Where a conflict of interests is authorised, the the Walker Review and FRC Review of the Combined Code.
All Board may impose such restrictions on the conflicted Director as they Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly deem appropriate such as excluding the Director from receipt of with Executive Directors and senior management outside formal information or discussions.
Under the procedure adopted by the Board meetings and an active dialogue is maintained by the Board.
each Director is required to notify the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary when a conflict of interest arises and the Board the Board also reviews Directors conflicts of interest annually.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable performance and the creation of The Directors restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the long term shareholder value.
The Board meets frequently and is aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the Company Group is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution and the Group in a manner that will promote the success of the of the Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: Company and is consistent with good corporate governance practice, and for ensuring that in carrying out its duties the Company and the The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company and Group meet legal and regulatory requirements.
The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to certain adjustments.
Board Board Group Audit Remuneration Board Risk Investment Nomination Notes meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 12 7 5 8 5 2 1 Total number of meetings in the year George Culmer 12 7 5 2 Noel Harwerth 2 11 5 3 2 Andy Haste 12 7 5 2 Edward Lea 10 5 7 2 Simon Lee 10 Malcolm Le May 2 11 8 3 2 1 John Maxwell 9 1 4 6 2 1 John Napier 12 1 8 2 1 Johanna Waterous 10 4 2 Chairman of the Board or Board Committee.
Noel Harwerth succeeded George Culmer as Chairman of the Board Risk Committee with effect from 3 June 2009. notes: 1.
I n addition to attendance as above, Andy Haste and George Culmer regularly attend, by invitation, meetings of the Group Audit Committee.
Andy Haste regularly attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May were appointed to the Board Risk Committee with effect from 3 June 2009 and have attended all three meetings of the Committee since their appointment.
48 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 corporate governance continueD The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out as a formal The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, which can only be a person who is willing to be a director either to fill a casual vacancy or amended by the Board itself and which is reviewed annually.
A Director who is appointed by the Directors Matters reserved to the Board include: shall retire at the following AGM and will put himself forward to be elected by the ordinary shareholders.
In accordance with the Articles Approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy and the Combined Code, the Directors submit themselves for Approval of changes to the Groups senior management structure reappointment at the first AGM after their appointment and for Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite re-election every three years thereafter.
Resolutions to reappoint Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control arrangements Directors at the AGM are subject to the approval of the Board, taking Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets into account the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Changes to the Groups capital structure and The Directors proposed for re-election by rotation at the 2010 AGM Approval of the Groups financial results and any significant are George Culmer, Simon Lee, Noel Harwerth, Malcolm Le May, changes to accounting practices or policies.
Edward Lea and John Maxwell.
The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove any Director The Board met twelve times during the year ended 31 December before the expiration of his period of office.
The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and at Board Committees of which they were members during the year is induction and professional development set out in the table on page 47.
On appointment to the Board, Directors undertake an induction programme and receive a range of information about the Company Board balance and independence when they join the Board.
This includes background information on Details of the Directors who served during the year can be found the Group and details of Board procedures, governance issues and on pages 40 and 41. directors responsibilities.
The induction programme also includes a series of meetings with members of the Board and executive At all times during the year, at least half of the Board, excluding the management, together with various briefings and presentations Chairman, comprised non-executive directors.
All Non-Executive regarding the business and regulatory matters from executives.
Directors have been determined by the Board to be independent.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-Executive Directors Development and training for the Directors is an ongoing process both individually and collectively without the Executive Directors which includes briefings on legislative and regulatory changes and being present.
The Chairman is currently Non-Executive Chairman on corporate governance issues.
Directors also receive regular and acting interim Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc pending an presentations about the Companys operations and there are regular appointment to that position.
The Chairman met the independence discussions on strategy, customer marketing, employee engagement criteria of the Combined Code on his appointment in 2003 and and environmental, social and governance matters.
Opportunity is continues to meet the criteria set out in the Combined Code.
Andy also created for Non-Executive Directors to make informal visits to Haste was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of ITV plc in 2008 different parts of the Group and to meet with local management.
at which time ITV plc was a constituent of the FTSE 100.
ITV plc is currently a member of the FTSE 250.
No other Executive Director performance evaluation served on the board of a FTSE 100 company during the year.
In 2009 the Board undertook an annual evaluation of its performance to assess how well the Board, its Committees and the Directors were Directors have access to the services and advice of the General performing.
The review included the use of a comprehensive Counsel and Group Company Secretary and in addition may take questionnaire.
Responses from the questionnaire were collated and independent professional advice at the expense of the Company subsequently discussed by the Board and they have concluded that in furtherance of their duties.
the Board was operating well.
Following the 2009 review the Board have continued to improve agenda management for Board meetings appointments to the Board to ensure that adequate time is made for the debate and exchange The Board considers the leadership needs and succession planning of ideas to support effective decision making.
of the Board when making decisions on new appointments.
The Board also ensures that succession planning processes and The Chairman has recommended that an external review of the Board plans are in place with regard to senior appointments both below be carried out in 2010 in accordance with current best practice.
When appointing new Directors, regard is given to the size of the Board: balance of Executive and NonExecutive Directors: the skills and experience already represented: likely future retirements: and those appointments to the Board which would be desirable going forward.
governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rsa | 49 The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for the evaluation of The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above the Chairmans performance and take into account the views of the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Executive Directors in their evaluation.
As part of the ongoing performance evaluation process the Chairman has regular one the Fsa to one meetings with each of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is also responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK regulatory chairman and chief executive officer obligations.
The Board attaches great importance to its regulatory The roles of the Chairman and the Group CEO are separate, with responsibilities and is committed to dealing with the regulator in an responsibilities clearly divided between them.
This separation of open, cooperative and transparent manner.
In the second half of responsibilities is formalised in role statements which have been 2009 the FSA conducted an ARROW Risk Review of both the reviewed and approved by the Board.
This included a review of the Companys Individual Capital Assessment and of Treating Customers Fairly.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, liaising as During 2009 the FSA also conducted private meetings with several necessary with the Group CEO on developments between Board members of the Board and executive management as a part of their meetings and ensuring that both the Group CEO and his executive close and continuous programme.
management team have appropriate objectives and that their performance against those objectives is reviewed.
The Group CEO In addition, the Group includes a number of regulated entities which is responsible to the Board for the executive management of the rely on various licences to carry out their business.
Accordingly, Group and for liaising with the Chairman and keeping him informed maintaining effective relationships with the Groups regulators is integral on all material matters.
to the success of the Groups strategies and its long term value.
remuneration Dialogue with institutional shareholders Details of the Directors remuneration and the Groups policies on The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships remuneration are set out in the remuneration report on pages 53 to 66. and communication with shareholders.
Senior management meet principal institutional shareholders on a regular basis and small Financial reporting shareholder groups on request, and Non-Executive Directors are The Directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting available to meet with institutional shareholders as required.
records are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with Over 70 meetings with investors were held during 2009.
General reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Group.
They are also shareholder information is also available on the Groups website responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the www.
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
constructive use of the annual general meeting The Directors must present financial statements for each financial All ordinary shareholders are invited to attend the Companys year, in accordance with applicable law, accounting standards and AGM.
The AGM Notice is despatched to ordinary shareholders regulations, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of at least 20 working days before the meeting and contains separate the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss and cash resolutions on each substantive issue, including a resolution to adopt flows for the Company and the Group as a whole for that period.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
All Directors are requested to attend Financial statements for the Group are prepared in accordance with each AGM.
The Chairman and the chairmen of the key Committees International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Companies of the Board make themselves available to take questions from Acts 1985 and 2006, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority ordinary shareholders at and after the AGM.
Details of the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
circumstances in which preference shareholders are entitled to receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at general meetings is In preparing such financial statements the Directors are required to: contained in the Articles.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation basis using reasonable and prudent judgement to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether State whether or not applicable accounting standards have been in written or electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time followed and explain any material departures for holding the meeting or, in the case of a poll taken otherwise State whether the Group financial statements have been than at or on the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 hours prepared in accordance with IFRS and before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
50 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 corporate governance continueD At any general meeting every shareholder present shall have one vote The GAC has unrestricted access to Company documents and on a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder present in person information, as well as to employees of the Company and external or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
Each resolution was put to a poll at the AGM in 2009.
Voting at the AGM is conducted electronically, with the results being announced to Regular reports are received and reviewed by the GAC from the the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Disclosure Committee, regional audit committees and in relation to the Financial Control Framework and Enterprise Risk Management.
corporate governance framework The Groups corporate governance framework describes and The GAC annually reviews the Groups Whistleblowing Policy and is prescribes how the Group is directed and managed by setting out satisfied that the policy meets the criteria set out in the Combined the matters reserved for the Board, the terms of reference of the Code.
This policy deals with employees who wish to raise serious Board and management committees, role statements, policies, concerns in good faith, and who either do not feel comfortable raising systems, procedures and controls.
the matter with local management or are not satisfied with the local management response.
They can raise their concerns with the Group The terms of reference for key committees of the Board explaining Chief Auditor, who will either investigate or arrange for an investigation their role and the authority delegated to them are available on of the matter.
Employees are offered such safeguards and support as the Companys website www.
may be necessary to protect their personal integrity and, where possible, identity.
group audit committee gac Chaired by Edward Lea, the GACs principal duties are as follows: The GAC annually reviews its effectiveness.
In 2009 this review was carried out using a questionnaire circulated to the Committee To coordinate and have oversight of the Groups financial members, regular attendees and the Chairman of the Company and reporting process a report of the results was discussed at a GAC meeting.
Overall the To monitor compliance with relevant regulations, industry codes and self assessment was strong and outcomes included an agreement to legal requirements review the Enterprise Risk Management Plan twice a year and the To have oversight of internal and external audit functions organisation of a briefing session for Non-Executive Directors which To manage the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls was held in October 2009.
To review the Groups financial performance and To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk The GAC is satisfied that, during 2009, it has received sufficient, management arrangements.
reliable, and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The full terms of reference are available at www.
external auditor The Committee is comprised of Non-Executive Directors, all of During the year, Deloitte was engaged as an advisor on a number of whom are deemed to be independent and the Combined Code occasions.
In order to maintain their independence, such appointments requirement for at least one Committee member to have recent are only made in accordance with a protocol developed and embedded and relevant financial experience is met.
Details of the members of by the GAC.
This provides that the external auditor should not carry the GAC and their attendance at GAC meetings are shown in the out work where the output or recommendations are then subject to its table on page 47.
The General Counsel and Group Company review as external auditor.
Work may be given to the external auditor Secretary acts as the Secretary to the GAC.
The Group CEO, Chief where it is closely allied with the audit function or it is advantageous to Financial Officer CFO, Group Chief Auditor, Group Operations & the Group to use its external auditor in view of its knowledge and Risk Director, Group Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance and experience of RSA.
This could include accounting advice, regulatory a representative of the external auditor are regular attendees by returns, tax advice or due diligence work.
All non audit work over invitation and the GAC holds regular meetings with the Group Chief 100,000 must be approved in advance by the CFO and all non audit Auditor and the external auditor without any members of work over 250,000 will be notified by the CFO to the GAC management being present.
The Chairman and other members of Chairman.
With reference to the protocol the GAC is satisfied that executive management are also invited to attend from time to time.
there are no matters that would compromise the independence of the The outcomes of meetings are reported to the Board and the external auditor or affect the performance of the external auditors Board receives the minutes of all the GAC meetings.
Details of fees paid to Deloitte during 2009 for audit and non audit work is disclosed in the external auditor remuneration table in note 4 on page 100. governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rsa | 51 The GAC has reviewed the independence, effectiveness and Each quarter there is a self certification process completed by business objectivity of the external auditor in 2009 and concluded that managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and Deloitte provided a service that was robust and fit for purpose.
their compliance with Company policies, laws, rules and regulations.
Accordingly, the GAC recommended to the Board that a resolution The Board considers that the current reporting framework delivers be put to the 2010 AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte as sufficient information to monitor the systems of internal control and external auditor and the Board has accepted this recommendation.
to review their effectiveness as required by the Combined Code.
The Board therefore considers that an ongoing process for internal audit identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and Group has been in place during 2009 and up to the date of approval effectiveness are monitored and reviewed by the GAC.
The GAC of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly is responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information and reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on resource is given to the Group Chief Auditor and for approving the the Combined Code.
appointment to, and removal of the holder from, that position.
Key features of the current internal control systems of the Group The internal audit function reports to management on the include internal audit, the corporate governance framework, effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal controls, the dialogue with institutional shareholders, constructive use of the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard AGM and the areas explained below.
the Groups assets and resources.
The GAC reviews and approves the Group Internal Audit Plan for each year and in December 2009 Board risk committee Brc approved a revised mandate and three year strategy of the internal Chaired by Noel Harwerth, the BRCs principal duties are as follows: audit function.
The internal audit function is periodically evaluated and the next external assessment will be carried out in 2010.
To recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk appetite to the Board for approval internal control To approve the Reinsurance Framework, risk profile and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control aggregate exposure limit recommended by the Group systems and for monitoring effectiveness.
Implementation and Reinsurance Credit Committee maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility To approve the quantum of ICA ECA capital required as recommended of the Executive Directors and senior management.
by the ICA and Capital Allocation Steering Group including a review of the overall assumptions, results and key changes The performance of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the To review the proposed strategic direction and guidance for GAC and the Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Solvency II compliance and make recommendations to the Board systems of internal control in order to safeguard the Groups assets and To review the proposed risk management and regulatory shareholders investment.
This system includes governance, financial compliance strategies of the Group and recommend their controls, the risk management framework and the process to deliver approval to the Board regulatory and compliance requirements.
The systems are designed to To ensure that the material risks facing the Group have been identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the potential risk of failure to identified and that appropriate arrangements are in place to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not manage and mitigate those risks effectively absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
To ensure the risk profile and mitigating actions address issues Following the review of the internal control systems, the Board confirmed relating to the Groups control environment that the actions it considered necessary to rectify any significant failings To review and challenge risk information received from the or weaknesses have been or are being taken.
Groups risk functions to ensure that the Group is not exceeding the risk appetite set by the Board The Board, through the GAC, receives reports from the Group To present a profile of the Groups key risks and associated Chief Auditor and her team on the integrity of the control controls to the Board at least annually environment and also receives reports from the external auditor To review the draft of the remuneration report to be included in based upon their audit work.
The GAC also receives reports on the Companys Annual Report and Accounts to the extent not the adequacy of the Groups arrangements for ensuring regulatory reviewed by the Board as a whole and report any views on any compliance from the Group Head of Regulatory Risk and implications of the Groups remuneration policies for risk and risk Compliance.
The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, management to the Board.
considers reports from risk specialists to the Group, and reviews Group level risk management information.
The regional Risk Committees for each of the UK, Emerging Markets and International regions provide regular reports to the BRC.
52 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May joined the Committee with a high degree of transparency around the Groups financial control effect from 3 June 2009 with Noel Harwerth succeeding George environment.
The Group has people, procedures and tools Culmer as Chairman of the Committee at that date.
Other embedded in the business to maintain and streamline the control members of executive management are regular attendees together environment, and to provide ongoing reporting and assurance.
with the regional risk directors.
Quarterly reports are presented to the GAC which include notification of any control deficiencies or breaches in the period investment committee and action taken.
The Investment Committee is chaired by Malcolm Le May and comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors, the Group CEO and Delegated authorities the CFO.
The Committee met twice during 2009.
The Committee The Group operates a Delegated Authority Framework which assists the Board in setting the Groups investment strategy and specifies how executive authority is delegated from the Board to monitors the execution of that strategy and the Groups investment the Group CEO and on to other executives in the Group.
In addition to his reports to the Investment Committee, executive licences set out specific limits of authority in terms of the Group Investments Director also attended a Board meeting and entering into financial, underwriting and other business provided update papers to the Board during 2009. commitments.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within his or her area of nomination committee responsibility.
Chaired by John Napier the principal duties of the Committee are as follows: Further detail on risk management are set out on pages 30 to 32.
To regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board By order of the Board To keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, mark r chambers both executive and non-executive and satisfy itself that General Counsel and Group Company Secretary appropriate succession plans and processes are in place for Board 24 February 2010 and senior appointments To prepare a description for the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment and to seek advice from external advisers in relation to any appointments To identify and nominate candidates for the approval by the Board to fill Board and Committee vacancies as and when they arise To ensure that existing Directors seeking permission to join other public company boards have the approval of the Committee, taking account of capacity, work involvement and any perceived conflicts of interests and To make recommendations to the Board on the continuing appointment and re-election of Directors.
Details of the members of the Committee and their attendance at Committee meetings are shown in the table on page 47.
The Committee met once during 2009.
Financial control Framework The Financial Control Framework aims to deliver a consistent approach to finance related controls across the Group that is fit for purpose for all regions, embedding a control culture that will strengthen the Groups finance environment by ensuring that the Groups financial processes are managed effectively in order to mitigate the associated risks.
This is done by documenting and testing the way that core elements of the business work, providing
