38043 pp031-041 File0408 03 201012:59Page38 38 Corporate governance report Corporate governance review 2009 Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 This section explains our overall approach to and the Companys Articles of Association, the Board corporate governance, how we have applied the is authorised to manage the business of the Company.
principles of the Combined Code, the extent to which The diagram below illustrates the Groups high level we have complied with the Codes provisions and an governance framework and how authority is delegated explanation of the one area where we have not from the Board.
As one of the UKs largest asset managers, The Board has monitored closely the developments corporate governance is very important to us.
We are in corporate governance following the recent financial committed to business integrity, high ethical values crisis.
As an investor and as a listed company we and professionalism in all our activities.
The Board support the general aims of the Walker Review supports the highest standards of corporate to improve corporate governance in the UK.
Schroders Corporate Governance Guidelines form the basis for how the Board and its Committees operate, what is expected of Directors and how they discharge their duties.
These Guidelines and the Groups other core governance documents, including the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of the principal Board Committees, are available on our website at www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Execution of Strategy Independent Oversight Board Delegation of authority Delegation to Board Committees Chief Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Executive Committee Committee Committee Delegation of authority to individuals Chief Financial Group Management Internal Committee Of cer Audit Supported by Group Risk Committee The Board Committees are composed entirely of non-executive Directors of Schroders plc | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp031-041 File0408 03 201012:59Page39 39 The role of the Board also chairs meetings of the non-executive Directors at The Board is accountable to shareholders for the which the performance of the Chairman is reviewed.
creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial Andrew Beeson will succeed Sir Peter as Senior performance and long-term shareholder value.
The Independent Director when Sir Peter retires in Board achieves this by its own decision making, May 2010. delegating responsibility to Board Committees and The non-executive Directors considered by the Board authority to the Chief Executive.
Certain matters can to be independent are Andrew Beeson, Luc Bertrand, only be decided by the Board.
These are contained Sir Peter Job, Merlyn Lowther and Lord Howard.
Sir in a Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and Peter ceased to be independent under the Combined include consideration and approval of such matters as: Code at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, having The Groups strategy: served for more than nine years since his first election to the Board.
The Board however considers that Sir Acquisitions and disposals: Peter continues to be independent in character and The Groups capital: judgement, notwithstanding his long service as a Director, and that he makes a significant contribution Significant new business activities: to the Boards effectiveness.
The Board also The Annual Report and Accounts and other financial considers that Sir Peter continues to be well qualified statements: for the role of Senior Independent Director.
Bruno Schroder does not meet the test of independence in The annual budget: and the Combined Code.
The Board considers that he The issue and repurchase of the Companys shares.
brings valuable experience to Board deliberations and that at all times he acts in the best interests of The composition of the Board the Company.
In addition to the Chairman, there were five executive Directors President George W. Mallinckrodt, KBE, retired as a and six non-executive Directors, of whom five were Director of the Company on 31 December 2008.
The considered by the Board to be independent.
Philip Board is delighted that he continues as President of Mallinckrodt joined the board on 1 January 2009 and the Company following his retirement.
Kevin Parry, who was already a member of the Board, Time commitment Although non-executive Directors became an executive Director on the same date.
are not required to commit a specific number of days, Biographical details of the Directors are set out in the they are expected to commit sufficient time in order for Directors profiles section of this report.
them to discharge their duties appropriately.
The On 4 March 2010 Robin Buchanan will be appointed Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the as an independent non-executive Director.
Sir Peter non-executive Directors committed sufficient time Job will be retiring as a Director at the conclusion during 2009 to the fulfilment of their duties as of the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2010.
The Chairman is Michael Miles.
He is responsible for External non-executive directorships The Board leading the Board.
His other responsibilities are to believes in the benefit of executive Directors and other ensure the effectiveness of the Board, monitor and employees accepting non-executive directorships of evaluate the performance of the Chief Executive other companies in order to widen their skills and and ensure there is appropriate dialogue knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
has adopted a policy on external appointments which is designed to ensure that employees remain able to The Chief Executive is Michael Dobson.
He is discharge their responsibilities to the Group.
Under the responsible for the executive management of the policy, executive Directors should normally not take on business of the Company and its subsidiaries.
more than one non-executive directorship of a major This includes recommending the Groups strategy company or any chairmanship of such a company.
Directors and employees are usually permitted to The Chairman and Chief Executive each have a retain any fees paid in respect of such appointments.
written job description setting out their respective To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive responsibilities.
Michael Miles job description was Directors inform the Chairman before taking up any reviewed and updated in 2007.
job description was reviewed and updated in 2008.
Board meetings The Board held five meetings during The Senior Independent Director is Sir Peter Job.
He is 2009, including a two-day meeting at which the available to shareholders if they have concerns which Groups strategy was reviewed.
The Board has an have not or cannot be resolved through discussion 18-month rolling plan of items for discussion, agreed with the Chairman or the executive Directors.
Sir Peter | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp031-041 File0406 03 201001:04Page40 40 Corporate governance report continued between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
This competitive environment and the asset management plan is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure that industry generally, and copies of the minutes of Group all of the Matters Reserved to the Board, as well as Management Committee meetings.
other key issues, are discussed at the appropriate In order to keep the Board informed of wider time.
At each Board meeting in 2009 the Chief developments within the business and on general Executive provided a review of the business and how issues affecting their role as Directors, specific briefing it was performing and the Chief Financial Officer sessions were also held.
These were open to all provided a detailed review of the Groups financial Directors.
The Board held two briefing sessions in position.
The range of subjects discussed by the 2009 covering structured investments, liability driven Board included: investments, multi-assets, and multi-manager The strategic development of the Group, including businesses, and fraud risk and prevention.
We shall be its people strategy: continuing with these briefings in 2010.
The Groups financial results: Induction All new non-executive Directors undertake an induction programme to introduce them to the The budget for 2010: Groups business, operations and governance The Groups capital: arrangements.
The induction programme includes meetings with senior management, visits to offices, The key risks facing the Group: presentations on key business areas and relevant Our businesses in Asia, continental Europe and documentation.
the Americas: Support to the Board The Board Secretary is Our key business areas including Equities, responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman Fixed Income, Distribution, Alternatives and and the Board on corporate governance matters.
Private Banking: Directors have access through the Board Secretary to independent professional advice at the Companys The Groups corporate responsibility and charitable expense.
giving policies: Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains Corporate development: and appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders Attendance at Board meetings is set out in the authorised the Company to provide indemnities to table below: Directors in certain circumstances and to fund Directors defence costs.
The Company has Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended subsequently granted specific deeds of indemnity to each of the Directors including Directors appointed Michael Miles 55 since the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Andrew Beeson 55 Luc Bertrand 55 Conflicts of interest The Board approved a policy on Alan Brown 55 conflicts of interest in 2009, in light of changes to the Michael Dobson 55 law resulting from the implementation of the Lord Howard 55 Companies Act 2006, under which Directors are Sir Peter Job 54 Merlyn Lowther 55 required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts.
Philip Mallinckrodt 55 The Board reviewed and approved these for each Kevin Parry 55 Director as disclosed by them.
The Board may impose Bruno Schroder 55 restrictions if these are deemed necessary.
A register Massimo Tosato 55 of conflicts is maintained and all actual and potential conflicts are reviewed annually.
Information provided to the Board Before each Board Chairmans Committee Meetings of the Chairman meeting Directors received comprehensive papers and non-executive Directors, usually without all of the and reports on the issues to be discussed.
Senior executive Directors present, are held prior to most executives below Board level also attended meetings scheduled Board meetings.
Four such meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
were held in 2009 and matters discussed included This and other meetings gave the non-executive the evaluation of the Board, the performance of the Directors the opportunity to have direct access to a Chairman and the Chief Executive, investment broader group of executives.
In addition to Board performance and remuneration issues.
The Chief papers, Directors were provided with relevant Executive attended three meetings at the invitation information between meetings.
This included of the Chairman.
information on management changes, analysts commentaries on the Company, information on the | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp031-041 File0406 03 201001:04Page41 41 Delegated authorities The Board has a formal A meeting of the non-executive Directors, led by schedule of matters reserved to it, subject to which Sir Peter Job in his role as Senior Independent authority to manage the business is delegated to the Director, also assessed the performance of the Chief Executive.
He in turn delegates authority to the Chairman with input from the whole Board.
Sir Peter senior executive team which meets as the Group discussed the outcome of this review with Management Committee.
This is chaired by the Chief the Chairman.
Executive and generally meets twice each month to oversee the management of the Groups business.
Shareholder relations Ongoing communication across the Companys The current members and their areas of responsibility shareholder base, including institutional investors and are set out below: private and employee shareholders, is achieved mainly through the publication of the annual report and Michael Dobson Chief Executive interim management statements, the announcement Geoff Blanning Head of Emerging Market of significant developments affecting the Group and Debt and Commodities the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate and investor Alan Brown Chief Investment Officer Karl Dasher Head of Fixed Income information, including webcasts of the presentations Jamie Dorrien Smith Head of Americas of the interim and final results made by the Chief Lester Gray Head of Asia Pacific Executive and Chief Financial Officer, can be found at Ken Lambden Head of Equities www.
Philip Mallinckrodt Head of Private Banking Kevin Parry Chief Financial Officer The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that Markus Ruetimann Chief Operating Officer dialogue with shareholders takes place.
During the Massimo Tosato Executive Vice Chairman and year the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer Head of Distribution and other senior executives conducted a series of John Troiano Head of Global Institutional Business meetings with, and presentations to, institutional Howard Trust General Counsel investors, analysts and prospective shareholders to review the Groups strategy and to discuss corporate The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to its governance matters.
Over 100 such meetings were Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee held in 2009.
The Chairman is also available to meet and Audit Committee.
Reports on the Committees institutional shareholders, as is the Senior activities during the year, together with summaries of Independent Director.
Feedback from shareholders is the terms of reference of these Committees, are set provided to the Board by the Chairman, the Chief out in the subsequent sections of this corporate Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees reported The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to question the Chairman and to the Board on the matters considered, and any significant issues that had arisen, at the next Board other Directors, including the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Chief meeting after the Committees had met.
Directors receive copies of the minutes of Committee meetings.
Executive provided shareholders at the meeting in April 2009 with a review of the Groups business in Board effectiveness 2008 and an update on our results for the first quarter of 2009.
Evaluation The Board, led by the Chairman, reviewed the effectiveness of the Board and the principal Board The Annual Report and Accounts and the notice of Committees.
The Board considered alternative meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working evaluation methods and agreed that internal days prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
evaluation, using a Schroders specific questionnaire complemented by interviews between the Chairman Compliance with code provisions and individual Directors where required, was The Company complied with all of the provisions of appropriate.
The performance of the Board section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year Committees and individual Directors was considered except for one.
Less than half of the Board excluding as part of this evaluation process.
The responses to the Chairman comprised independent non-executive the questionnaires were analysed and discussed with Directors.
Bruno Schroder is a representative of the the Chairman.
A report was prepared on the findings principal shareholder group and the Board considers of the evaluation process and this was considered by that it is appropriate for this group to be represented the whole Board at its meeting in March 2010. on the Board and Sir Peter is considered by the Board to be independent as described above.
The performance of the Chief Executive was considered by the Chairmans Committee against his Michael Miles agreed objectives for the year.
The outcome was discussed by the Chairman with the Chief Executive.
Chairman 3 March 2010 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
