38043 pp042-062 File0506 03 201001:05Page56 56 Nominations Committee report In this report we detail the role of the Nominations Periodically reviewing the terms of appointment of Committee, its membership and the matters under the non-executive Directors: and consideration during the year.
Conducting a review of the Committees performance, periodically reviewing the adequacy The composition of the Committee of its terms of reference and recommending any All non-executive Directors are members of the changes to the Board.
Committee, the composition of which in 2009 was: There were no changes to the Committees terms of Michael Miles Chairman reference in 2009.
The Committees terms of Andrew Beeson reference are available on www.
com or Luc Bertrand from the Company Secretary.
Lord Howard Sir Peter Job Report on the Committees activities in 2009 Merlyn Lowther Meetings and attendance Bruno Schroder The Committee met five times during the year.
The composition of the Committee did not change in Attendance by Committee members at each meeting 2009.
Robin Buchanan will join the Committee on his is set out in the table below: appointment to the Board on 4 March.
The Chief Maximum possible Meetings Executive is usually invited to attend Committee attendance attended meetings.
Michael Miles Chairman 55 Responsibilities of the Committee Andrew Beeson 55 The Board has delegated to the Committee Luc Bertrand 53 responsibility for reviewing and proposing Lord Howard 55 appointments to the Board and for recommending Sir Peter Job 53 any other changes to the composition of the Board or Merlyn Lowther 54 the Board Committees.
The principal responsibilities Bruno Schroder 55 of the Committee include: Reviewing the size and composition of the Board Principal issues addressed during 2009 were: and its Committees and making recommendations Review of the non-executive Directors standing for to the Board with respect to the role and re-election at the Annual General Meeting: responsibilities for each appointment: The size and composition of the Board and the Ensuring there is a formal, rigorous and transparent principal Board Committees: and procedure for the appointment of new Directors: The appointment of an additional independent Selecting and interviewing potential candidates for non-executive Director.
appointment to the Board and its Committees: In reviewing the composition of the Board, the Identifying and recommending suitable candidates Committee considered in detail the position of for the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent Sir Peter Job as an Independent Director given that Director: at the 2009 Annual General Meeting he had served for Developing and recommending appropriate criteria nine years since election.
for determining Director independence: | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp042-062 File0508 03 201016:29Page57 57 The Committee recommended that Sir Peter should Support be considered to be an independent Director in view The Committee received information and support of his demonstrable independence of character and from management during the year to enable it to judgement.
The Board supported the Committees carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
Sir Peter will have served ten years Committee has the right to appoint external advisers with the Company at the 2010 Annual General where it believes that to be appropriate and to seek Meeting and will not seek further re-election.
The any information that it requires from any officer or Committee also made recommendations to the Board employee of the Group.
on the re-election of non-executive Directors after first considering the effectiveness and commitment of those non-executive Directors.
The Committee reviewed the size and composition of the Board and the three principal Committees: Remuneration: Audit: and Nominations.
When undertaking this review, the Committee applied the principles agreed in 2003 and reaffirmed in 2007 that the Board should have a balance of executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors and Directors who have a connection with the principal shareholder group.
The Committee engaged a firm of external search consultants, to identify and help assess a shortlist of candidates to join the Board as an independent non-executive Director.
Several candidates were interviewed by Board members during the year to assess their suitability.
In March 2010 the Committee recommended the appointment of Robin Buchanan to the Board.
It also, in the light of Sir Peters decision to retire from the Board, recommended that Andrew Beeson be appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, that Luc Bertrand should join the Remuneration Committee and that Merlyn Lowther should be appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board approved these appointments at its meeting on 3 March 2010.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
