38043 pp042-062 File0506 03 201001:05Page58 58 Audit Committee report In this report we detail the role of the Audit Committee, Revised terms of reference were adopted by the its membership and the matters under consideration Board on 4 August 2009.
The Committees terms of during the year.
reference are available on www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Composition of the Committee The Audit Committee comprises three independent, Report on the Committees activities in 2009 non-executive Directors: Meetings and attendance The Committee met four times in 2009 and there Andrew Beeson Chairman was full attendance at all meetings by members.
Luc Bertrand Merlyn Lowther A number of senior executives are invited to attend each Committee meeting to assist the Committee Following his appointment to the Board, Robin in fulfilling its role.
These include the Chief Financial Buchanan will join the Committee, at the end of the Officer, the Global Head of Compliance, Chief Risk Annual General Meeting, replacing Luc Bertrand who Officer, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the will join the Remuneration Committee.
Group General Counsel and each provided reports on Merlyn Lowther, former Chief Cashier of the Bank of their areas of responsibility.
Other members of senior England, is considered by the Board to have recent management are also invited to attend as appropriate and relevant financial experience.
There were no to present reports.
The Groups external auditors, changes to the composition of the Committee in , are also represented at 2009.
She will succeed Andrew Beeson at the end of each meeting and presented reports on its activities.
the Annual General Meeting when he assumes the During the year the Committee met separately on chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
two occasions with the Groups external auditors and with the Head of Internal Audit, without executive Responsibilities of the Committee management present.
This provided an opportunity The Board has delegated to the Committee for the external and internal auditors to raise matters responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and of concern in confidence.
The Committee also internal control of the Group and for maintaining an met privately with the Chief Financial Officer during appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The main role of the Committee is to encourage and safeguard the highest standards of integrity, financial The Committee has a formal programme of issues reporting, risk management and internal control.
In which it covers during the year.
This programme is doing this the principal responsibilities of the formulated by the Committee Chairman and the Committee include: Company Secretary and is designed to ensure that all matters that fall within the Committees remit Reviewing the form and content and monitoring the are reviewed during the year.
The Committee has integrity of the Companys and the Groups financial access to external independent advice at the statements and the significant financial reporting Companys expense.
issues and judgements: Principal issues considered during 2009 were: Reviewing and monitoring the arrangements for ensuring the objectivity and effectiveness of the The annual financial statements for 2008 and interim external and internal audit functions: results for 2009: Recommending to the Board the appointment, The external audit plan for 2009: re-appointment or removal of the external auditors: Group Internal Audits quarterly reports on its Developing and implementing policy on the activities and the control environment: provision of non-audit services: The scope and mandate of the control functions: Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance: Companys internal controls and risk management The Groups risk management process, including systems: and key risks facing the Group: Reviewing and monitoring the Companys ethical The Groups overall governance and risk standards and procedures for ensuring compliance framework: with regulatory and financial reporting requirements and the Groups relationship with the relevant The appropriateness of the accounting policies regulatory authorities.
used in drawing up the Groups financial statements: | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38043 pp042-062 File0508 03 201019:28Page59 59 The Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment In 2009 the value of non-audit services provided by Process as required under the Capital Requirements  to Group companies was Directive: 1.6 million 2008: 1.5 million.
The range of nonaudit services provided included tax and compliance The external auditors year-end report, interim advice, reports on internal controls and regulatory report and management letters: opinions for regulated subsidiaries across the Group.
The valuation and pricing of investment assets: The Groups external auditors are also required to The Groups major IT projects: provide a report to the Audit Committee every six months detailing all non-audit services, including the Tax strategy and governance: level of fees charged, and to have their own internal Management of the Groups capital: processes to ensure that the firm, its partners and its staff are independent of the Group.
Annually the The performance, independence and objectivity Committee reviews a formal letter provided by the of the external auditors, including a review of external auditors confirming its independence and non-audit fees: objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory The assessment of Group Internal Audit: and requirements and professional standards.
The arrangements for employees to raise concerns To support the principles of independence, the about possible improprieties relating to the Groups auditors have a policy governing the length of time operations.
a partner can work on the Schroders audit.
In accordance with this policy  Other issues changed the senior audit partner in 2006.
The The Committee received reports and presentations on Committee is satisfied that the external auditors various subjects connected principally to the control remain independent.
The Committee The Committee considered the re-appointment of reviewed the scope and level of cover provided by the  as auditors, taking into Groups Directors and Officers liability insurance account the results of the auditor assessment and the appropriateness of cover provided by process, the quality of work undertaken and the level other insurances, the governance of the Groups of audit fees.
In its review, the Committee took into pension arrangements and the governance of account, amongst other things, the tenure of the outsourced activities.
auditors and the rotation of the lead audit partner and did not consider it necessary to require Non-audit services and auditor independence  to tender for the audit work.
In 2008 the Committee reviewed and updated the The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to policy covering the provision of non-audit services to recommend the re-appointment of the auditors and the Group by the external auditors which was adopted the Board supported this recommendation which in 2004.
This enhanced the governance of the will be put to shareholders at the 2010 Annual provision of such services and provides a clear and General Meeting.
transparent framework to ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
Under the Committee evaluation policy the provision of any service that might lead to a The annual evaluation of the Committees conflict of interest is not permitted unless other effectiveness was undertaken as part of the overall possible providers are themselves conflicted.
In such Board evaluation process.
The specific findings exceptional cases the Audit Committee must approve relating to the Audit Committee were discussed with each service and approval will only be given where the the Committee Chairman.
The Committee received Committee is satisfied that appropriate measures are information and support from management during in place to manage or mitigate any potential conflict of the year to enable it to carry out its duties and interest.
During 2009 there were no instances where responsibilities effectively.
 were engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.
The policy also has strict rules in relation to the approval of contracts for non-audit services which do not present a possible conflict of interest.
All contracts for non-audit services must be notified to the Head of Finance and contracts valued in excess of 25,000 require prior approval.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2009
