Governance Report of the Directors continued The Great Debate forms part of the Groups ongoing of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are given programme to in Notes 23 and 25 on pages 88 and 90 to the consolidated fi financial statements which form part of this report.
Details of the engage with employees to improve motivation and morale share schemes in place are also provided on pages 50 to 53 of the empower employees to contribute to the Groups development Remuneration Report.
both as an employer and as a business demonstrate Carillions commitment to listening to, and On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every responding to, the views of its employees.
holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, through People Forums, which give employees an opportunity shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
to express their views on business issues.
The main objectives of the People Forums are to The notice of Annual General Meeting specifi es deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in improve employee information and consultation relation to resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
help employees feel more involved and valued All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or support the continued education and development of withheld in relation to each resolution are announced and employees published on the Companys website after the meeting.
improve business performance by improving the awareness of employees to the business climate in which they operate There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the help employees to be responsive and better prepared for Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are change.
imposed from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of Team Talks, which are held monthly, provide Carillion employees the Financial Services Authority, Directors and certain offi cers and with a face-to-face communication with their line managers employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to and facilitates two-way communication, discussion and feedback.
deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
It focuses on local issues and key corporate messages and information.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights One-to-one meetings between individual employees and their line attached to the shares.
managers are also held to discuss performance and progress in order to help all employees to develop and reach their full potential.
At 3 March 2010, the Company had received formal notifi cation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following Employees can also exchange best practice information via a material holdings in its shares: Business Exchange forum on the Group intranet.
Number of shares held Percentage Schroders plc 59,520,743 14.98 Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading-edge programmes to integrate safety into every aspect of the Groups Standard Life Investments Ltd 32,079,188 8.07 operations and to improve its environmental performance, F&C Asset Management plc 19,246,558 4.84 including the understanding and application of the principles Legal & General Group Plc 15,783,867 3.97 of sustainability.
Further information on Health and Safety is HBOS plc 14,036,048 3.53 given in the Group Chief Executives review on page 17 and on UBS Investment Bank 13,424,716 3.38 Sustainability in the Sustainability review on pages 30 to 33.
Policy for payment of suppliers Employees with disabilities The Groups policy is that its individual businesses should agree Carillion is committed to providing equal opportunities to all terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for employees and is supportive of the employment and advancement payment to be made on these terms providing suppliers meet of disabled and disadvantaged persons.
Employees who become their obligations to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with whole does not apply a general payment policy as this would equipment so that they can continue their employment.
not be practicable or appropriate, given the diverse nature of the transactions undertaken by its business units.
The Company Share Capital and Shareholders does not have any trade creditors.
As at 31 December 2009, the issued share capital of the Company comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 50pence each.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged The authorised share capital of the Company is 350 million, 58 days at 31 December 2009 65 days at 31 December 2008. comprising 700 million ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
Details Carillion plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 04 Governance Change of control There has been no change in Directors interests in the period A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon 1 January 2010 to 3 March 2010. a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
Additional information for shareholders With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Carillions main credit facilities, including the 590 million Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Syndicated Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility dated Code on Corporate Governance and the Companies Act 2006 4September 2007, contain a provision such that in the event of and related legislation.
The Articles of Association themselves may a change of control any lender may, within a limited time period be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers and if it so requires, notify the Company that it wishes to cancel of the Board are detailed on pages 41 and 42 of the Corporate its commitment.
Any such cancellation of commitment and the Governance report.
repayment of any outstanding borrowings will occur on the date falling 30 days after the date of the change of control.
The Directors were authorised at the 2009 AGM to purchase the Companys own shares within certain limits.
Although no Charitable and political contributions such purchases were made during the fi financial year, the Directors Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the will seek approval to renew this authority at the 2010 AGM year ended 31 December 2009 amounted to 200,000 2008: see below.
The primary benefi ciaries of these charitable donations were The Transformation Trust, The Wildlife Trust, the British In September 2009 the Offi ce of Fair Trading OFT imposed a Occupational Health Research Foundation, Business in the penalty of 5.4m on Carillion JM Limited formerly Mowlem Community, CRASH, RedR and The Princes Trust.
following the conclusion of the OFTs investigation of cover pricing in the construction industry under the Competition Act 1998.
The Carillion Group also contributes more than one per cent of The penalty relates to Carillion JM Limiteds construction business profi ts per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community and relates entirely to the period prior to Carillion JM Limiteds projects to community activities and is a corporate member of acquisition by Carillion.
No other member of the Group was Business in the Community.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations Annual General Meeting during the period under review.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 5 May 2010 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Financial Instruments Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting Information on the Carillion Groups use of fi financial instruments, accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
fi financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is given in Note 27 on page 92 of the consolidated fi financial Included in the AGM business are the following proposals statements.
i to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its Directors share interests own shares.
As at 31 December 2009, the Company had Ordinary shares authority from shareholders for the purchase of 39,571,417 The benefi cial interests of the Directors and their immediate of its own shares families in the ordinary share capital of the Company as at ii to adopt new Articles of Association that fully comply with 31 December 2009 are shown below.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Fully paid 50p As at 1 January 2009 As at 31 December 2009 Auditor ordinary shares owned: Number Number Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to Executive Director authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be Richard Adam 15,647 16,419 proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Richard Howson 2,331 2,435 Don Kenny 88,153 92,505 Approved by order of the Board.
John McDonough 794,083 992,211 Non-Executive Directors David Garman 14,300 14,300 David Maloney 10,000 10,000 R F Tapp Steve Mogford Secretary Vanda Murray 12,300 12,300 3 March 2010 Philip Rogerson 39,630 39,630 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Governance Corporate Governance report The policy is The Board is fi rmly committed to high standards of corporate business integrity: we do not give or accept bribes: we do not sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, governance.
or gifts-in-kind: we investigate fully all alleged breaches of this policy and will dismiss any employee who has breached this policy mutual respect: we do what we say we will do: we treat our people fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding discrimination and bullying: we provide a safe and healthy General principles working environment, and respect sustainable principles in all The Board is fi rmly committed to high standards of corporate the Groups operations governance.
During the year to 31 December 2009, as detailed trust: we engender trust within our work groups and companies, below and in the Remuneration report on page 47, the Company respecting diverse traditions and cultures: we respect the trust complied with both the main principles and the provisions set out placed in us by others, not least when we are asked to take in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance responsibility for aspects of their business or resources: we June 2008 except in respect of Board Balance principle A.
3.2. maintain and demand high professional standards and demand The reason for non-compliance in this matter is explained on honesty and openness: we avoid confl icts of interest wherever page 41 of this report.
Since the Annual General Meeting on possible, and we proactively declare any unavoidable confl icts 6 May 2009, the Company has been fully compliant with the for open scrutiny and resolution Combined Code.
legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings: we clearly communicate procedures for disciplining those who do not Ethics and Business Integrity Policy comply with the law or our standards and policies: we maintain Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity a system for confi dential reporting of breaches of our standards and ethics which underlies the Groups core values of openness, and policies collaboration, mutual dependency, sustainable profi table growth, human rights: we support the belief that human rights are professional delivery and innovation.
The Ethics and Integrity Policy universal and adhere to the principles of human rights in our is designed to ensure that Carillion will conduct its business to the operations: we support the United Nations Universal Declaration highest ethical standards.
The policy applies to all employees of any Carillion Group This policy is applied into Carillions business through a series company.
The way Carillion delivers this policy is refl ected in the of detailed procedures.
They allow Carillion to carry into practice way the Group competes for business and delivers its services, its reputation for conducting business to the highest ethical focused on quality, value for money and the reliability and standards, which are essential to its relationships with customers, reputation of its employees.
business partners, employees, shareholders and the public.
The detailed procedures refl ect the way Carillion competes for business, through the quality and value of its work and through the reliability and reputation of its people.
The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy and its implementation is reviewed annually by the Board.
The policy is currently under review in light of the Bribery Bill.
Carillion plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 04 Governance Directors The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The Board Group Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and With effect from 6 May 2009, the Company has been led by a encompasses the following parameters Board comprising four Executive and fi five Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to considered to be independent of management.
They each have provide continuity, experience and governance while the substantial relevant experience and have no business or other Group Chief Executive provides leadership, energy, imagination relationship that could materially interfere with their independent and the driving force judgement.
David Garman is the Senior Independent Nonthe Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward Executive Director.
of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of Between 1 January and 6 May 2009, the Board comprised fi five their respective roles encourages the Chairman and Group Executive and fi five Non-Executive Directors.
However, Roger Chief Executive to work well together to provide effective and Robinson retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting complementary stewardship on 6 May 2009 such that the Company was once again fully the Chairman must: compliant with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the t ake overall responsibility for the composition and capability Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
of the Board c onsult regularly with the Group Chief Executive and be In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors available on a fl exible basis for providing advice, counsel service contracts are terminable by one years notice.
and support to the Group Chief Executive.
the Group Chief Executive must: In 2009, a detailed internal evaluation of the Boards corporate manag e the Executive Directors and the Groups day to governance procedures and compliance was conducted by the day activities Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The internal pre pare and present to the Board strategic options for evaluation took into account the views of each of the Directors on growth in shareholder value i the role of Directors, ii the performance of the Board, the s et the operating plans and budgets required to deliver Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, iii Board Committees, the agreed strategy iv leadership and culture, v Corporate Governance vi Directors ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk remuneration, vii relations with shareholders and viii Board management and control mechanisms.
The Board at its meeting in November 2009 reviewed the results of the internal evaluation and, where The Board had a programme of ten meetings in 2009 and it required, issues were acted upon in order to further enhance the also met on an ad hoc basis as required.
effectiveness of the Boards procedures and working practices.
Such an evaluation has been conducted in each of the last eight A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for years and the intention is to repeat it annually.
In addition, the consideration and decision is maintained.
These matters include performance of each individual Director has been reviewed.
statutory issues such as the approval of fi final and interim fi financial statements and the recommendation of dividends appointments to, and removals from, the Board and the terms of reference and membership of Board committees approval of Group strategy and annual budgets approval of authority levels, fi financial and treasury policies authorisation for any acquisition or disposal review of the internal control arrangements and risk management strategies review of corporate governance arrangements.
The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operate within clearly defi ned limits of authority delegated by the Board and any matters outside of these limits must be referred to the Board for consideration.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 Governance Corporate Governance report continued All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance of responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Board approves recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
The Committee also reviews succession planning to ensure that processes and plans are in place with Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent regard to both Board and senior appointments.
professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
Attendance at meetings in 2009 The number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the attended by each Director during 2009 was as follows: fi financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Audit Remuneration Nominations Group as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, Board Committee Committee Committee markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Number of meetings held 10 4 3 1 Board Committees Richard Adam 10 The principal Board Committees are the Remuneration Committee, David Garman 10 4 3 1 the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The David Hurcomb 9 Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees.
Don Kenny 10 The terms of reference of each of the Board Committees are David Maloney 10 4 3 1 available on the Carillion website at www.
com or on John McDonough 10 1 request from the Company Secretary.
Steven Mogford 9 4 3 1 Vanda Murray 10 4 3 1 The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows: Roger Robinson 4 Philip Rogerson 10 1 Remuneration Committee David Garman, Chairman Roger Rogerson retired as a Director on 6 May 2009 and David Hurcomb on 8 December 2009.
David Maloney Steven Mogford Richard Howson was appointed to the Board on 10 December 2009 which was after the completion of the 2009 schedule of Board meetings.
Vanda Murray Other Board matters The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Policy on external appointments Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on Recognising that external appointments can broaden their the appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of knowledge and so be of benefi t to the Company, Executive Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a pages 47 to 53. limited number of such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
John McDonough is a Non-Executive Audit Committee Director of Tomkins plc and Richard Adam is a Non-Executive David Maloney, Chairman Director of SSL International plc.
David Garman Steven Mogford Nomination and remuneration of Directors Vanda Murray The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
For further information see the Report of the Audit For Board appointments, the Nominations Committee uses the Committee on pages 44 to 46. services of the executive recruitment consultants JCA and Odgers.
Details of potential candidates are provided by the consultant Nominations Committee and initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Philip Rogerson, Chairman Committee.
Meetings with selected candidates are then held with David Garman Directors.
Subsequently, the Nominations Committee meets to David Maloney recommend an appointment, which is then proposed to the Board John McDonough for approval.
Steven Mogford Vanda Murray Carillion plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 04 Governance In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are Relations with shareholders normally for three years: re-appointment is subject to review and is In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from not automatic.
time to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of as a whole, taking into account the commitment required and objectives.
Meetings are also held with other shareholders and participation in the work of committees and other advisory services prospective shareholders.
The details of these meetings are in relation to the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on reported to the Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to seek Non-Executive Director are available for meetings with independent external advice concerning the appropriateness of the representatives of major shareholders as required.
amounts by comparison with general practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the Non-Executive Directors is based on Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend independent external advice.
the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 53.
Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration Retirement of Directors by rotation and Audit Committees will be present at the Annual General All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Meeting on 5 May 2010 to respond to shareholders questions.
at least every three years.
The Directors retiring and seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Accountability and Audit 5 May 2010 are Richard Adam, Don Kenny, John McDonough Report of the Audit Committee and Steve Mogford.
The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent NonExecutive Directors: Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the fi first opportunity following their appointment.
Accordingly, David Maloney, Chairman Richard Howson will seek election at the Annual General Meeting David Garman to be held on 5 May 2010.
Steve Mogford Vanda Murray The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are David Maloney is an accountant who is Chairman of Hoseasons available for inspection at the registered offi ce of the Company Holdings Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of Micro Focus during normal business hours on any weekday bank holidays International plc, Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc and Enterprise excepted and at the Annual General Meeting.
He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees for Make a Wish Foundation UK.
Before taking up these appointments, David Induction and development of Directors held senior positions in a number of services sector companies, Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on including Chief Financial Offi cer for Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other Limited, Chief Financial Offi cer for Thomson Travel Group duties and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In Holdings plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
addition, all new Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such matters as the operation and activities of the Group, David Garman was Group Chief Executive of TDG plc until its the role of the Board and the Companys corporate governance takeover in 2008 before which he was an Executive Director procedures.
Directors are also briefed by the Companys external of Associated British Foods plc, having previously held senior advisors, where appropriate, on changes to legislation or positions in a number of leading UK food companies.
He is also a regulation or market practice as well as receiving briefi ngs from Non-Executive Director of Phoenix IT Group plc and a Director of business groups throughout the year.
the Oakwood Partnership Ltd. At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in November 2009 the Directors visited the Groups operations in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
Directors also visit other operations and meet a wide range of employees.
The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby the Company Secretary is notifi ed by Directors of their requirements in this respect.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Vanda Murray is Deputy Chairman of the North West In 2009, the Committee met on four occasions and dealt with the Development Agency and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of following matters Marketing.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of SIG plc and The Manchester Airport Group plc.
Vanda was Chief Executive Offi cer internal audit reports including control of risk of Blick plc from 2001 to 2004, a Director of Ultraframe plc from annual and interim fi financial statements 2002 to 2006, Non-Executive Chairman of Eazyfone Limited from KPMG Audit Plc audit review 2006 to 2009 and has also served as a Trustee and Non-Executive top ten risks Director of The Manufacturing Institute.
She was appointed OBE reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc in 2002 for Services to Industry and to Export.
2009 external audit plan internal audit review Steve Mogford is Chief Executive of SELEX Galileo Limited, a 2010 internal audit plan Finmeccanica company, which he joined in May 2007.
From April assessment of the going concern basis 2000 to May 2007, he was a Director of BAE Systems plc with review of compliance with the Combined Code responsibility for fi xed wing military aircraft and naval business.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive Directors which also refl ect their membership of the Audit The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation Committee and other Board committees.
Details of remuneration of the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives of the are given on page 48. external auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head of Risk and the Head of Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite others as it Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year requires from time to time.
The Committee also meets privately to 31 December 2009 with both the external and internal auditors.
Financial statements The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include and the external auditors the annual and interim statements.
In this context, the Committee also reviews the written reports of KPMG the review of the annual and interim fi financial statements Audit Plc on issues arising from the annual audit and the review of consideration of the impact of changes to accounting the interim results.
regulations and the fi financial and accounting policies of the Group Internal controls compliance with statutory and other external requirements The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the results internal control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the of its audit work and the response of management control environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its the internal control system.
However, such a system can provide cost-effectiveness only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are misstatement or loss.
complementary monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal auditors and ensuring that the services provided including Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board non-audit services provide a proper balance between objectivity confi rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, and value for money evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks both fi financial and recommending to the Board the external auditors to be non-fi financial and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks proposed to shareholders for appointment.
faced by the Group including Joint Ventures and overseas businesses.
The process has been in place for the year under The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and information necessary to fulfi l its duties, ii call any member of Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required and iii obtain external professional advice, at the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfi lment of its duties.
Carillion plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
