Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 43 Corporate Governance Report This report explains the approach the Company has taken to apply Ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained and adequate the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code on controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the Company from Corporate Governance.
fraud and other significant risks: Identifying and managing risk: and St. Jamess Place is committed to high standards of corporate governance Deciding the Companys policy on charitable and political donations.
and supports the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Listing Rules require uK listed A copy of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be found on companies to state whether they have complied with the provisions of the the corporate website at www.
Combined Code during the year.
The Board considers that the Company has achieved compliance with all provisions of the Combined Code The Company has developed a Board Control Manual BCM which throughout the financial year, except in respect of provision A.
3 of the sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within Code Board balance and independence in relation to which compliance the Company.
The manual contains a variety of useful and informative was only achieved in the current financial year.
documents such as the terms of reference for the various sub-committees of the Board as well as the Companys risk policies.
In addition, detailed Since the resignation of Simon Gulliford from the Board in February job descriptions for each Executive and subsidiary Director are included 2008, the Nominations Committee has sought to find a suitably as well as a general job description outlining the responsibilities of the experienced independent non-executive Director to replace him.
The BCM is updated by the Company Secretary A job specification was prepared and a firm of recruitment consultants and approved by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
with experience of recruiting non-executive candidates was appointed.
Several candidates were identified and interviewed as part of the process the Roles of the ChaiRman and Chief exeCutive during 2008 and 2009, but the Nominations Committee did not feel The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, it appropriate to put forward any of the candidates for consideration Mike wilson, and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, are clearly by the Board.
however, in late 2009, the Nominations Committee defined and have been approved by the Board.
No single Director has recommended Charles Gregson and he was appointed to the Board in unfettered powers of decision-making.
The Chairman is responsible January 2010 as an independent non-executive Director.
As a result, for ensuring the continued effectiveness of the Board and for setting its the Company is now compliant with provision A.
agenda so that adequate time is available for substantive discussion on strategic issues.
The Chairman also promotes effective communication the BoaRd between the Executive and non-executive Directors and with The Board of Directors are responsible for providing entrepreneurial shareholders generally.
The Chairman also liaises with senior members leadership and direction to the Company and are custodians of the of the Partnership and acts as a sounding board to senior management.
Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
They ensure controls The Chief Executives primary responsibility is to manage the Company are in place to deliver value to shareholders and the wider community via the executive management team and implement the strategies adopted of individuals and organisations which benefit from the Companys by the Board.
The Board also assess whether the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable the Company to meet the senioR independent diReCtoR its objectives.
Michael Sorkin is the Senior Independent Director.
Michael is available to meet with shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware There were six formal Board meetings during the year, plus an additional of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms all day strategy meeting.
A table detailing the Directors attendance at for investor communication.
Board meetings can be found on page 45. diReCtoRs and diReCtoRs independenCe In advance of each meeting, all members are supplied with an agenda The Board currently consists of an Executive Chairman, four and pack containing reports on current trading, operational issues, Executive Directors, six independent non-executive Directors and compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The chairmen of one non-independent non-executive Director.
The non-independent the various sub-committees of the Board also report to the Board at non-executive Director, Steve Colsell, has been nominated by the each meeting and copies of Board Committee minutes are included in Companys largest shareholder Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG.
Director Packs for information purposes.
Biographical details of all the Directors can be found on pages 38 and 39.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Directors The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for it and are available on request and will be available at the Annual General its primary responsibilities include: Meeting AGM in May 2010.
Determining the overall strategy of the Company: Jo Dawson resigned as a non-independent non-executive Director on Ensuring that the Companys operations are well managed and proper 5 February 2010 following her decision to leave LBG.
Charles Gregson succession plans are in place: joined the Board as an independent non-executive Director with effect Reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the from 1 January 2010.
Executive Directors: Implementing appropriate corporate governance procedures: The quality of individual Directors and the Boards overall composition Periodically reviewing the results and operations of the Company: is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness.
Committee membership 44 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued is reviewed annually to ensure the gradual refreshment of skills and Directors are regularly updated on their duties and responsibilities experience over time.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors have and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as well as sufficient time to devote to their roles.
independent professional advice where needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further training is made available as necessary to ensure that when determining whether a non-executive Director is independent, the the whole Board is kept abreast of relevant developments applicable to Board considers whether each individual has an independent character their roles.
Topical issues are addressed prior to each Board meeting.
and considers how they conduct themselves in Board meetings.
other For example, during the year, the Company Secretary and other senior criteria include how they exercise judgement and whether they act in the executives updated the Board on an array of pertinent topics such as best interests of the Company and its shareholders at all times.
the Retail Distribution Review, the results of the staff survey and the financial impact of scenario testing.
Derek Netherton has served on the Board for more than nine years which is a relevant factor in the consideration of his independence.
The BoaRd evaluation Board has considered this point with particular care and believe that The Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own performance Derek continues to demonstrate his independence when carrying out his during the year which included a review of its committees and individual duties on the Board.
he constructively challenges management as and Directors.
The evaluation was conducted by the Company Secretary when he considers it appropriate and contributes significantly in Board who carried out individual interviews with each Board member.
his individual skills and extensive knowledge findings were presented to the Board and a number of relatively minor of the financial services sector is extremely helpful to the business in improvements were implemented, including devoting more time at general.
his financial knowledge is particularly helpful in connection Board meetings to strategic issues.
with his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board do not believe that it is in the interests of the Company to replace him The Chairman met each of the non-executive Directors separately to with a further independent non-executive Director at the present time.
discuss the results of the evaluation in relation to their performance however, to plan for succession in the future, the Board has appointed on the Board or its committees.
other items discussed included Mike Power as Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee.
suitable topics for pre-Board presentations, training requirements and succession plans.
induCtion and Continuing pRofessional development The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, on joining the Board, Directors are given a pack of documents giving met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans background information about the Group and an appropriate induction performance and to discuss other topical issues such as the overall programme is set up for them.
The programme enables the new Director performance of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director carried out to meet senior management, visit office locations and speak directly to a formal appraisal of the Chairmans performance during the year, using Partners and staff around the country.
ongoing training is coordinated the feedback obtained during the Board evaluation process.
by the Company Secretary for all Directors throughout the year following individual discussions with each Director.
Adhoc training is set BoaRd Committees up on request and the non-executive Directors are able to attend location There are five sub-committees of the Board: being Audit, Investment, meetings and the Double Partner Development Conference, where Nominations, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
The membership they have an opportunity to meet Partners on a more informal basis.
and terms of reference of the committees are reviewed annually Non-executive Directors are briefed on the views of major shareholders and the terms of reference are available on the corporate website at Board meetings and have an opportunity to meet with shareholders www.
co. uk or on request from the Company.
3183415 45 attendanCe at meetings The attendance by individual Directors at Board and committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2009 was as follows: Board Risk audit Remuneration nominations investment 7 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 3 meetings 8 meetings Sarah Bates 6 4 8 David Bellamy 7 4 3 2 Andrew Croft 7 5 2 7 Steve Colsell 5 4 Jo Dawson 5 Ian Gascoigne 7 3 David Lamb 7 8 Derek Netherton 7 5 3 3 Mike Power 7 4 5 Michael Sorkin 7 5 3 3 7 Roger walsom 7 4 3 Mike wilson 7 2 3 Figures in brackets indicate where a Director has been invited by a committee to attend the meeting but is not a formal member of the the views and opinions of major shareholders.
The Group Risk Director is invited to attend part of Board Director is available for consultation with shareholders and other meetings throughout the year to present his Group Risk Report.
he also non-executive Directors are also available to meet with major attends Risk and Audit Committee meetings during the year.
diReCtoRs and offiCeRs indemnity and insuRanCe Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming AGM to The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and officers answer shareholders questions on the Companys business and the against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Directors or officers.
activities of the Board and its committees.
All members of the Board and other senior employees who act as Directors of subsidiary companies have each been granted indemnities Relationship with lloyds Banking gRoup plC from the Company to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement the Agreement are uncapped in amount and protect recipients from certain losses and with halifax Group plc in 2000 to regulate the relationship between the liabilities that they may incur to third parties in connection with the two companies after the completion of a Partial offer.
The Agreement furtherance of their duties as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
was novated to hBoS plc, following the merger between halifax and Copies of the indemnities are available to shareholders on request.
Bank of Scotland in 2001. on 16 January 2009, hBoS plc was acquired by Lloyds TSB Bank plc, which subsequently changed its name to Lloyds pRoCeduRes to deal with diReCtoRs ConfliCts of Banking Group plc.
inteRest At the 2008 AGM, shareholders amended the Articles of Association The principal purpose of the Agreement is to ensure the Company to include provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest as operates independently of LBG and to provide that the relationship permitted under the new Companies Act 2006.
In 2008, procedures between LBG and the Company will be conducted on an arms length were approved by the Board to deal with situations where a Director basis.
under the Agreement, LBG has the authority to appoint a number either has a conflict of interest or where a potential conflict of interest of Directors to the Board and its committees and the number varies in situation arises.
under the procedure, the relevant Director must disclose relation to LBGs shareholding in the Company.
LBG currently has the to the Board the actual or potential conflict of interest for discussion by right to appoint three non-executive Directors to the Board although, as the other members of the Board.
The Board will consider the potential at the date of this report, LBG has appointed one non-executive Director, conflict on its particular facts and decide whether to waive the potential being Steve Colsell.
conflict if it believes this to be in the best interests of the Company.
The process involves keeping detailed records and Board minutes in respect nominations Committee of authorisations granted by the Board and the scope of approvals given.
The Nominations Committee comprises two independent non-executive Conflict authorisations are reviewed annually by the Board.
Directors and the Executive Chairman.
The Committee met three times during the year and the current members and attendees are: Relations with shaReholdeRs The Board maintains close relationships with institutional shareholders Members: Attendees: through dialogue and frequent meetings.
The Company also meets Michael Sorkin Chairman David Bellamy regularly with JPMorgan Cazenove who facilitates meetings with Derek Netherton investors and their representatives.
Attendance notes from each meeting Mike wilson are circulated to members of the Board to bring them up to speed on 46 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued DuTIES Group, the Committee will review and determine the scope of any The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating termination payment and severance terms.
The Committee is also candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Prior to responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference any appointment being made, the Committee evaluates the skills, for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
knowledge and experience of existing members and prepares a comprehensive description of the role and capabilities required for a The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and authority particular appointment.
can be found on the corporate website and further details on the activity of the Committee during the year is set out in the Remuneration Report Succession planning forms a core remit of the Committee, taking into on page 50. account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company at present and in the future and the Committee gives full consideration to the type investment Committee of skills and expertise required at Board and senior management level.
The Investment Committee met eight times during the year and the The Committee will, from time to time, use the services of an external current members of the Committee are: search consultancy to assist in finding suitable candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
Sir Mark weinberg Chairman Sarah Bates The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and authority Andrew Croft can be found on the corporate website.
David Lamb Michael Sorkin ACTIVITIES Vivian Bazalgette from 1 January 2010 During the year, the Committee focused its efforts on finding a suitable Peter Dunscombe from 1 January 2010 independent non-executive Director to fill the vacancy left by the Chris Ralph from 1 January 2010 resignation of Simon Gulliford.
An external search consultancy was appointed and the Committee shortlisted a number of suitable candidates Various members of the Asset Management team and representatives for the role.
In January 2010, Charles Gregson was appointed to the from Stamford Associates were invited to attend meetings during the Board as an independent non-executive Director.
In January 2010, the Committee appointed three new members.
Two are independent consultants who have a wealth of knowledge and The Committee reviewed the succession plans for the Board and experience in the investment management arena, being Vivian Bazalgette senior management and considered plans for identifying a successor and Peter Dunscombe.
Chris Ralph was also appointed, being the to Sir Mark weinberg, as Chair of the Investment Committee.
Three Groups Chief Investment officer.
key appointments were made during the year as a consequence of this piece of work: being the appointment of a Chief Investment officer DuTIES and the appointment of two new external members to the Investment The Committees main responsibilities include overseeing the Companys Committee.
All three appointments have helped to broaden the expertise investment management approach, monitoring the performance and of the Investment Committee.
suitability of the fund managers as well as ensuring that all fund managers follow the terms of their agreements with the Company.
where necessary, RemuneRation Committee the Committee will make recommendations in relation to the appointment The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent nonor removal of fund managers.
The Committee evaluates market risk and executive Directors.
The Committee met three times during the year considers and makes recommendations in relation to the appointment and and members and attendees of the Committee are: the continued effectiveness of the investment consultant.
Members: Attendees: ACTIVITIES Michael Sorkin Chairman David Bellamy During the year, the Committee monitored the performance of the Derek Netherton Mike wilson Companys investment managers and focused on specific manager issues Roger walsom Andrew Croft that arose.
Face-to-face reporting sessions were held with each manager, Charles Gregson from 1 March 2010 which provided the Committee with an opportunity to evaluate their investment style and decision-making.
DuTIES The Committee is responsible for determining the Companys broad The Committee also considered the Investment Manager Report policy for executive remuneration and the entire individual remuneration from Stamford Associates and brought about a number of changes packages for each of the Executive Directors, the Group Risk Director and additions to the investment managers appointed by the Group.
and where appropriate other senior executives if applicable, including New managers were identified and appointed to the new uK Equity any executive whose total remuneration is expected to exceed the Income unit Trust and the Investment Grade Corporate Bond Fund.
median total remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Committee also made a number of investment manager changes to existing funds, including the high octane unit Trust, the uK and The Committee reviews the performance of individual Directors and General Progressive unit Trust and the Greater European Progressive senior management against bonus and incentive schemes and determines unit Trust.
In the event of a Director leaving the Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 47 More details on the work of the Committee can be found in the Report In order to maintain the external auditors independence and objectivity, of the Investment Committee 2009, which can be obtained from the the Committee has established a financial limit of 100,000 in fees for Companys website at www.
non-audit related advice and consultancy work by the external audit firm.
Details of the amount paid to the external auditors during the year audit Committee for audit and non-audit related services are set out in the Notes to the The Audit Committee met five times during the year and members and Accounts on page 75.
The Committee held a private meeting with the attendees of the Committee are: previous external auditor, KPMG Audit PLC during the year which was independent from management to review key issues and responsibilities.
Members: Attendees: Derek Netherton Chairman Andrew Croft other activities undertaken by the Committee during the year included Mike Power Deputy Chairman Steve Colsell consideration of the Internal Audit function audit plan, which included Michael Sorkin a review of the Companys system of internal financial controls and a review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
The Committee also All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive considered a change in external audit firm and recommended to the Directors who have considerable financial experience.
Biographies for Board, the appointment of  LLP as external each Director can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Attendees at meetings auditor to replace KPMG Audit PLC.
The change was required in order during the year included the Finance Director, the Risk Director, to harmonise the audit process with LBG and shareholders will be asked the head of Internal Audit and members of the finance team, as well to reappoint  LLP at the AGM on 13 May 2010. as the external auditor.
Steve Colsell also attended meetings as the LBG representative.
Committee members received updates from the chair of the Risk Committee and discussed risks identified on the Emerging, Topical DuTIES and Corporate Risk Schedules.
The Chairmen of the Audit and The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal Risk Committees, along with the Risk Director also considered the and external audit resource and examining any matters that relate to the interaction between the two committees in the area of risk management financial affairs of the Company.
This includes advising the Board on and a number of small changes were made to the reporting process and the Companys interim and annual financial statements, its accounting interaction between the two committees.
policies and compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee also assists the Board to ensure that the financial and non-financial The Committee also received and considered the Individual Capital information supplied to shareholders provides a balanced assessment of Assessment report of the life company, St Jamess Place uK plc the Companys position.
SJPuK is required by the regulator to maintain a capital assessment for regulatory purposes and one of the responsibilities of the other duties include maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Committee is to review and consider the report.
external auditors, reviewing the nature and scope of the work performed by them and their responses to management.
The terms of reference that Risk Committee set out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate The Risk Committee met four times during the year and members and website at www.
attendees include: ACTIVITIES Members: Attendees: During the year, the Committee formally reviewed the draft interim Mike Power Chairman David Bellamy and annual reports and associated announcements and considered the Sarah Bates Ian Gascoigne accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the Companys Roger walsom Bill Tonks Group Risk Director financial statements and proposed changes were made where necessary.
The Committee considered significant accounting issues and areas All members of the Committee are independent non-executive of judgement, as well as deferred tax and other liabilities, potentially Directors who have considerable financial and or risk-based experience.
Biographies for each Director can be found on pages 38 and 39. other attendees at meetings during the year included head of Internal The Committee considered the appropriateness, independence and Audit, head of Risk Management and a representative from LBG, the services provided by the external auditor.
Areas considered during the Companys major shareholder.
year included: DuTIES the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the The Committees responsibilities include fostering a culture of effective audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter: risk identification and management and reviewing the major and the overall work plan for the year ahead: emerging risks affecting the Group.
The Committee can call for reports the external auditors fees: from senior management on how material risks are being managed and issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: annually review the procedures for the identification, recording and key accounting and audit judgements: and mitigating of material risks.
where necessary, the Committee makes recommendations made by the external auditors and the adequacy of recommendations for changes in risk related practices and procedures managements response.
and can seek external input for its work, where necessary.
3183415 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued The Risk Appetite Statement and risk policies are reviewed annually In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, and all material areas of concern or weakness reported to the Audit the Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to Committee and the Board.
The Group Risk Director reports to the maintaining a strong control culture within all business areas and have Committee on risk issues at each meeting and has direct access to the processes for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Chairman of the Risk Committee, should the need arise.
Adherence to regulatory codes of conduct is required at all times Directors remuneration is approved by the Remuneration Committee.
and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
In The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and authority addition to these ongoing procedures, the Audit Committee conducts an can be found on the corporate website.
annual review that considers the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and other ACTIVITIES risk management systems.
The review also includes the nature and scope During the year, the Committee received regular management reports of the ongoing monitoring processes, including the effectiveness of the from senior executives on risk identification and mitigation within their Internal Audit function and the potential impact on these processes as a areas of the business.
These included an update from the Group Legal result of any changes during the year to the risks that the Group faces.
Director on risk mitigation in relation to the Legal and Client Liaison Departments, an update from the Finance Director on risk mitigation in The Group utilises a number of outsourced service providers to provide the Finance Department, a review of the business plan for the year ahead administration services to the Group companies.
These services are and a discussion on risks arising from the work to further develop the detailed in formal contracts and their delivery is monitored by dedicated Groups investment management approach.
relationship managers against documented Service Level Agreements and Key Performance Indicators.
The Committee reviewed and approved the risks identified on the Emerging, Topical and Corporate Risk Schedules as well as the annual Each year the outsourced service providers are required to confirm Risk Appetite Statement and Internal Audit plan as well as SJPuKs and evidence the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control Individual Capital Assessment.
framework as assessed against the requirements of the CoSo Internal Control Integrated Framework and to confirm that no material The annual Money Laundering Reporting officers report was reviewed control issues have been identified in their operations over the course of by the Committee during the year.
The report included an examination the year that would require notification to the Company.
of the governance framework, operation of systems and controls and training requirements in respect of anti-money laundering activities This system of internal control is designed to ensure that the primary within the Group.
objectives of compliance with applicable laws and regulation, effective and efficient operations, quality financial and operational reporting and inteRnal ContRol safeguarding of assets, are met.
The Board retains overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including, financial, operational when control issues of significance have occurred, the Audit Committee and compliance controls and risk management.
The Audit and Risk has received full and detailed reports from management and Internal Committees of the Board along with appropriately structured, staffed Audit, including proposals for amending and strengthening the and qualified Internal Audit, Risk Management and Compliance business systems involved in line with the Groups focus on continuous functions support the Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities improvement.
where appropriate, such cases have been referred to the and oversee their outcome.
Board by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Director for further discussion.
The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard Annual Report and Accounts.
to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks occurring and the cost of mitigating risks.
It is therefore designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
3183415 49 In the Boards view, the information it has received from entity wide risk The Directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information in assessment, operational management, and the reports issued by Internal accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in Audit has been sufficient to enable it to properly review the effectiveness May 2004 by the Chief Financial officers Forum, as supplemented by of the Companys system of internal control in accordance with the the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures Turnbull Guidance for Directors on Internal Control.
issued in october 2005 the EEV Principles.
when compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to statement of diReCtoRs ResponsiBilities in RespeCt prepare supplementary information in accordance with the Embedded of the annual RepoRt and aCCounts and the Value Methodology EVM contained in the EEV Principles and finanCial statements to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and included in the EEV Principles.
Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the Directors have: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the for each financial year.
under that law the Directors have elected to EEV Principles: prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International identified and described the business covered by the EVM: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, with united Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice united current and expected future experience and to any relevant external Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
under company data, and then applied them consistently: and law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Companys website.
Legislation in the united Kingdom governing the required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Board of and prudent: Directors section of the Annual Report and Accounts confirm that, to state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European union and applicable the best of their knowledge: uK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in financial statements respectively: and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Eu, give a true and fair view prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
the European Embedded Value EEV supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records May 2004 by the Chief Financial officers Forum as supplemented by that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and the EEV Principles issued in october 2005: and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position the business review referenced to in the Directors Report includes a of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial risks and uncertainties that it faces.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
