Corporate governance This statement, together with the Directors remuneration report on pages 24 to 29, explains how the Company has applied the principles set out in the Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006.
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
The principles of good governance adopted by the Company have been applied as follows: The Board The overall strategy and objectives for the Group are agreed by the Board as a whole, with the day-to-day management being delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors, with each Executive Director being responsible for the performance of his area of the business.
The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs.
However, the Non-Executive Directors have a particular role to: challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors: scrutinise and challenge performance: assess risk and the integrity of financial information and controls: and ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors and other senior executive roles.
A Board performance evaluation exercise, which included the work of the Board Committees, was last undertaken in spring 2009, led by the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman.
Improvements to the acquisitions process and performance analysis were identified as being necessary and these are being implemented.
Directors The Board currently consists of four Executive and four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent under the terms of the Combined Code.
Mr Neil Page assumed office on 14 July 2008.
Mr Martin Toogood retired from the Board on 10 September 2008, and Mr John Kitching on 2 May 2009.
Under the Companys Articles of Association every Director will submit himself or herself for re-election every third year.
The full Board met six times during the year under review and six meetings are scheduled for the current year.
The Non-Executive Directors generally meet privately with the Chairman and Chief Executive at least twice each year.
The Non-Executive Directors meet, with no Executive Directors present, at least once each year inter alia to review the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Board evaluation process includes periodic review and discussion of the position of the Chairman who also combines the role with that of Chief Executive.
The Board does not at present consider it necessary to separate the two roles.
The Chairman is one of the leading figures in the industry both in the UK and Europe and the Board believe that it is in shareholders interests that he should be seen to take the leading role in the Companys affairs.
He also has extensive listed company experience at board level.
The Chairman was not a member of any Board Committee during the year under review, although he attends Committee meetings if invited, and has joined the Nomination Committee for 2009 10.
The Board recognises that with a combined Chairman and Chief Executive the role of the Senior Independent Director SID is important.
In particular, the SID plays a significant role in determining the Board agenda and Board appraisal process and in ensuring that any issues raised by the Non-Executive Directors are fully dealt with.
Baroness Noakes has been the SID since June 2004.
Each Board member receives monthly trading results, commentary and an update on key business issues and prior to each Board meeting receives a full set of Board papers for each agenda item to be discussed at the meeting.
A formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board covers key areas of the Companys affairs, including property and business acquisitions and disposals above a set limit.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, such advice may include training in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities as a Director.
All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their particular requirements.
Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 19 Corporate governance continued Attendance at Board and Committee meetings For the period to 2 May 2009 the Directors attendance as members at meetings was as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings: 64 23 Executive Directors Lord Harris 6 M J Harris 6 J Kitching 62 N Page 5 C G Sollesse 6 Non-Executive Directors G Brady 64 2 S R Metcalf 54 3 Baroness Noakes 64 2 M Toogood 611 G Weston 623 Scheduled meetings for 2009 10 64 24 Mr Page joined the Group on 14 July 2008.
Mr Brady joined the Remuneration Committee in September 2008.
Mr Toogood retired from the Board and Committees in September 2008.
Board Committees The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees, as described below.
Executive Directors attend both the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on the request of the respective Chairman of each Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each Committee.
The Terms of Reference of each Committee are available on the Companys corporate website www.
For the year 2008 09 the Committee memberships were as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Membership: Solely independent Majority independent Solely independent non-executives non-executives non-executives G Brady Member Member from Sept 2008 S R Metcalf Member Chairman Baroness Noakes Chairman Chairman M Toogood Member Member to Sept 2008 to Sept 2008 G Weston Member Member plus J Kitching The Audit Committee consists of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Baroness Noakes, who is a chartered accountant and is considered to be suitably qualified and has recent and relevant experience.
Baroness Noakes, Mr Brady and Mr Metcalf served for the whole year.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman and Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, as did the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
There were also regular private meetings with the external and internal auditors at which management was not present.
In 2008 09 there were four Committee meetings, with four planned for 2009 10.
An annual calendar was used to ensure that the Committees terms of reference were fully addressed over the year.
20 Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 The Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: Reviewing the Groups draft preliminary annual results announcement and financial statements and the interim statement prior to board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: Reviewing the consistency of and any changes to the Groups accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting standards and methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions: Reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and, on the basis of that review, recommending to the Board their re-appointment at the AGM: Approving the audit fees paid to the external auditors and reviewing the application of the policy on non-audit work performed by them together with the non-audit fees payable to them: Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups accounts, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: Reviewing the process for ensuring that senior management confirm that they have supplied the auditors with relevant audit information: Reviewing the internal audit plan, monitoring the delivery of that plan during the year and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: Reviewing the work of the Executive Directors committee, which oversees the identification and management of the risks to the business, together with reports on the Groups systems of internal control and reporting the results of this review to the Board: Reviewing the whistleblowing policy and relevant items reported under that policy.
Carpetrights policy is for the auditors to carry out mainly audit and assurance related activities.
The policy places a premium upon the auditors independence and the auditors are allowed to undertake non-audit work only if the Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the auditors independence would not be compromised.
As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation, the Committee undertook a form of self assessment: no issues were identified.
For 2008 09, Baroness Noakes Chairman and Mr Weston, both independent Non-Executive Directors, and Mr Kitching served on the Nomination Committee throughout the year.
Mr Toogood was a Nomination Committee member until his retirement from the Board in September 2008.
Following Mr Kitching ceasing to be a Director at the year end Lord Harris has been appointed to the Committee for 2009 10.
The Committee reviews annually the composition of the Board to ensure that at least half the Board comprises independent Non-Executive Directors and recommends changes as necessary.
External search consultants assist in the search process for all new Board appointees.
The Nomination Committee considers the skills and competencies of the existing Directors when drawing up a specification for new appointments.
The Committee also considers whether Directors due to retire by rotation should be recommended for re-appointment, and whether the appointment of Non-Executive Directors reaching the end of their three-year term should be renewed.
Committee members do not vote on their own re-appointment.
The Committee met twice during the year.
The Remuneration Committees report is set out on pages 24 to 29.
Internal control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Companys and the Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their effectiveness.
In order to fulfill this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the Companys and the Groups assets, the Directors have established an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Directors are satisfied that there are suitable ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the Groups system of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as risk management, and that these accord with the guidance on internal controls set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
The key elements of the Groups systems of internal control are as follows: Identification of business risks The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
The Executive Directors Group the EDs Group has the objective of identifying and assessing risks to the Companys medium-term strategy.
The EDs Group directs the UK and European Risk Management Committees, the former having been in existence for several years, to provide a risk response to each of the identified risks.
The EDs Group has provided regular reports to the Audit Committee and has considered the risk map and strategies adopted to mitigate the risks therein.
The UK Risk Management Committee comprises a small number of the senior management team as regular members, who are able to call on the expertise of other managers as required.
The Committee, which meets at least quarterly, regularly reviews the risk management and control process and considers the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others and monitors the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 21 Corporate governance continued Additionally, there are working groups covering Corporate Responsibility, Business Continuity, Stock Management and Health and Safety, each of which meets at least four times a year.
During the year under review these reported to the EDs Group, and for 2009 10 these will report to the UK Risk Management Committee.
Temporary Working Groups are formed as necessary to address specific risks, for example the commencement of operations from the new cutting and distribution centre in Purfleet.
The European Risk Management Committee consists of senior managers within the European operations.
The Committee meets quarterly to consider all risk matters across the European operations, and reports to the EDs Group.
Health and Safety Enforcing the Health and Safety policy is a high priority for management and fully descriptive manuals are available to all staff, supported by a training programme for stores, distribution centres and the central support office.
Risk assessments are undertaken for all procedures and safe systems of work devised for all procedures involving physical risk.
Failure to adhere to safe systems of work or following unsafe working practices will be subject to review and, if necessary, disciplinary proceedings.
Health and safety issues are included as part of the internal audit review of all premises.
Procedures documentation Business Procedures and Systems Procedures Manuals are available to provide staff with a reliable source of reference on all Company procedures.
Procedures are reviewed regularly and updates are issued as necessary via a weekly bulletin to all stores and central departments.
Planning The Groups planning system underpins the annual budget process.
The budget is reviewed and approved formally by the Board.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis and measured against the Budget and the prior year and a detailed explanation of significant variances is provided.
Key performance indicators are monitored weekly.
Control procedures The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed and considered.
Where necessary, separate working parties are set up to investigate and recommend means of addressing significant areas of concern, in addition to the work undertaken by the Risk Management Committee.
The Internal Audit function undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, based on a risk analysis model.
In particular, regular store audits take place at varying frequencies based upon a risk model so that audit input is commensurate with identified control risks.
An external whistleblowing service provides an independent point of contact for any member of staff to raise concerns they are unable to raise directly with their line manager.
Concerns may be reported anonymously and feedback is given wherever possible.
Monitoring and effectiveness On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, by reviewing the internal audit programme and its findings, by reviewing the work of the EDs Group, reviewing the half year and annual financial statements, and the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined so that appropriate action may be taken, or directed.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of its systems of internal control during the year.
In particular, a Risk Register is reviewed regularly and updated annually as a means of identifying and evaluating the significant risks which affect the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains good communications with shareholders.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss the strategies and objectives of the Company.
Investors are welcome to meet with the NonExecutive Directors if they wish to do so and have such an opportunity at the Preliminary and Interim Announcements which are attended by the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executives.
Other arrangements are made during the year and investors have an open invitation to contact the Directors at any time.
The whole Board is briefed on any concerns raised by shareholders.
Interim management statements will be issued as listed on the Calendar on page 76.
It is intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will attend the Annual General Meeting.
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
As required by the Code the Board will, at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of hands, and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate website.
22 Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 Accountability and audit The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on page 30.
The Statement by the Auditors on their responsibilities in respect of the accounts is contained in their report on page 75.
Details of the auditors remuneration for audit work and non-audit fees for the periods ended 2 May 2009 and 3 May 2008 are disclosed in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
Going concern The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the basis that the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to be a going concern for the foreseeable future.
In forming this opinion the Directors have reviewed the Companys budget for the year ending 1 May 2010 and outline projections for the subsequent two years, including capital expenditure and cash flow forecasts.
Corporate Responsibility The Company is very aware of its responsibilities to the wider community and has published a Corporate Responsibility policy which is available on the corporate website.
The policy includes relations with staff, shareholders and the community, trade bodies and suppliers and will be updated regularly.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period ended 2 May 2009 except provision A.
2.1 as the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are combined, as discussed above.
In addition, for the last eight months of the year the independent Non-Executive Directors did not comprise 50% of the Board following Mr Toogoods retirement from the Board in September 2008, which imbalance was corrected by Mr Kitchings retirement from the Board at 2 May 2009.
Our auditors,  LLP, have reviewed the Directors statement on the Companys compliance to the extent required by the listing rules and their report appears on page 75.
Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 23
