be appropriate for them to be proposed for nomination committees and the effectiveness re-election.
Each of the directors continues to be and contribution of the individual directors, effective and to display an undiminished including the Chairman, within the context of enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
The review encompasses Mr Walton, who would otherwise have been due an assessment of how cohesively these bodies to retire by rotation, has decided to retire from work as a whole as well as the performance of the board with effect from the conclusion of the the individuals within them.
reviews the Board has concluded that it has a proper balance of skills and is operating Audit Committee effectively.
The audit committee is a formally constituted Relations with Shareholders committee of the Board with defined terms of reference which are available for inspection at Shareholder relations are given high priority by the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered both the Board and the Manager.
The principal Office of the Company.
It normally meets twice medium by which the Company communicates yearly and among its specific responsibilities are with shareholders is through the half yearly a review of the audit plan for the year, the reports, annual reports and interim management review of the Companys annual and half yearly statements.
The information contained therein is results, together with associated documentation, supplemented by regular NAV announcements and the review of the internal and financial and by a monthly fact sheet available on the controls applicable to the management Companys website.
The Committee also reviews the cost The Board largely delegates responsibility for effectiveness, independence and objectivity of communication with shareholders to the the auditors with particular regard to non-audit management company and, through feedback, fees, of which there were none in either the expects to be able to develop an understanding current or prior financial years.
All members of the Board are directors are members of the audit committee willing to meet with shareholders at any time for and the Chairman is Mr Jewson.
The Board is the purpose of discussing matters in relation to satisfied that members of the audit committee the operation and prospects of the Company.
have relevant and recent financial experience to The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM fulfil their role effectively.
The auditors, who the and encourages questions and discussion on Board has identified as being independent, are issues of concern or areas of uncertainty.
In invited to attend the audit committee meeting at addition, special arrangements have been which the annual accounts are considered and established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme any other meetings that the committee deem investors to participate fully at Annual General necessary.
A separate resolution will be proposed Nomination Committee at the AGM in respect of each substantially A nomination committee has been established to separate issue.
Following the formal AGM oversee a formal review procedure governing the proceedings the Manager makes a presentation appointment of new directors and to evaluate the to the meeting outlining the key investment overall composition of the Board from time to issues that face the Company.
time, taking into account the existing balance of Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit skills and knowledge.
The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that The committee is also responsible for assessing all documents released by the Group and the the individual performance of directors and for Company, including the Annual Report, present a making recommendations as to whether they fair and accurate assessment of the Group and should remain in office.
This committee is chaired the Companys position and prospects.
After making enquiries, the directors have a Management Engagement Committee reasonable expectation that the Group and the As all the directors are fully independent of the Company has adequate resources to continue in management company, the Board as a whole operational existence for the foreseeable future, fulfils the function of a management including recourse to a 25 million overdraft engagement committee.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern Board Audit Committee Nomination basis in preparing the accounts.
Committee Director ongoing evaluation On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its performance, together with that of the audit and T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 23 23
