DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED SERVICEPROVIDERS Investment Manager During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML acted as Investment Manager to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the total net assets of the Company.
The investment management agreement between the Company and TAML is of an unlimited duration and may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to TAML of an amount up to one years management fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
When assessing the performance of the Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long term timeframe which is in accordance with the long term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as Investment Manager to the Company and well resourced to identify attractive investment opportunities and this is evident by the Investment Managers performance to date.
Secretarial and Administration Managers During the year FTIML acted as Secretary and Administrator of the Company.
The fee paid to FTIML for this is an annual rate of 0.20% of the total net assets of the Company, payable monthly.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIML of an amount up to one years secretarial and administration fee.
The Directors also keep under annual review the performance of FTIML as secretarial and administration managers.
Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Corporate Stockbroker The Company announced the appointment of Winterflood Investment Trusts as its corporate stockbroker on 8 January 2009.
Winterflood replaced UBS Limited who previously held this appointment.
CORPORATEGOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006.
It also makes reference to the Companys adherence to the Code of Corporate Governance of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 throughout the year ended 30 April 2009.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Board considers that the Company adheres to the principles and follows the recommendations of the AIC Code and, where appropriate, it provides explanations why and or detailed the steps it intends to take to bring the Company into line in the future.
By reporting against the AIC Code and by following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, the Company is meeting its obligations under the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules and as such the Company is not required to report further on issues contained in the Combined Code which are not relevant to the Company as explained in the AIC Guide.
Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand Shareholders: a The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction in the United Kingdom may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange corporate governance rules and the principles of the Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
b Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs home exchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at www.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved to them for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the half yearly and annual financial statements, recommendation of dividends, approval of any preliminary announcements of the Company, approval of any changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Investment Manager or its Secretary and Administrator, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager who manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Social, Community, Environmental & Ethical Policy As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social, community or environmental responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the social, community and environmental requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Institutional Shareholder Voting Policy As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 33 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Contact with Shareholders The Chairman of the Company is available for any shareholder questions and he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders.
Furthermore, the members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are usually present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, Dr Mark Mobius, briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Shareholders may contact the members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Accountability and Audit The Board has an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee, Sir Peter Burt, Neil Collins and Hamish Buchan appointed 26 June 2008.
Peter Godsoe was a member of the Audit Committee until his resignation from the Board on 26 June 2008.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager, internal auditors and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, at least once a year, and report on their work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment, remuneration, independence and policy on supplying non-audit services and ensuring continued independence.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on page 1.
Non-audit work undertaken by Grant Thornton UK LLP for the year ended 30 April 2009 on behalf of TEMIT included assistance with the tender offer proposals in 2008 and review of the October 2008 Half Yearly Report.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the Auditors is safeguarded.
As explained on page 28, during the year the Audit Committee initiated a competitive tender exercise and made a recommendation to the Board to appoint Deloitte LLP for the period ending 31 March 2010.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term in seeking its investment objectives as stated on pages 23 and 24.
This creates potential exposure to the following risks: Market Price, Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Liquidity and Fair Value risks.
The Companys policy and objectives in relation to such risks is disclosed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that a sound system of internal controls of the Company is maintained to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and the Directors believe that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirement of ensuring that a sound system of internal controls is in place by the Company.
34 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
