Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance Introduction Following Adrian Martin standing down, perspective.
The overriding responsibility The Board of Directors recognises the the number of Non-Executive Directors of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial importance of high standards of excluding the Non-Executive Chairman and responsible leadership to the Group corporate governance.
This Report and and the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman within a framework of prudent and the Remuneration Report set out on considered to be Independent effective controls.
These controls allow pages 33 to 38 explain that the Company Non-Executive Directors reduced to five.
for the key issues and risks facing the has complied during the period with the business to be assessed and managed.
principles contained in Section 1 of the Charles Dunstone is the Chief Executive The Board determines the overall 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Officer, John Gildersleeve is Nonstrategic direction for the Group, reviews Governance Code.
In accordance Executive Chairman and Sir Brian Pitman management performance and ensures with the Listing Rules issued by the is the Senior Independent Director.
that the necessary financial and human Financial Services Authority, the relevant resources are in place to enable the parts of this Report have been reviewed All Directors are subject to election by Group to meet its objectives.
The Board by the auditors and their opinion is shareholders at the first Annual General is comfortable that the necessary contained in the Independent Auditors Meeting following appointment and controls and resources exist within the Report on page 41. thereafter to re-election at least every Group to enable these responsibilities three years.
Both Executive Directors to be met.
The Board ensures that Board of Directors have a service contract that can be the Directors, and in particular the Composition of the Board terminated by either the Company or the Non-Executive Directors, develop an There are currently two Executive Director on 12 months notice or less.
understanding of the views of major Directors and six Non-Executive shareholders about the Company.
The Directors including the Non-Executive The Non-Executive Directors have three Company regularly communicates with Chairman.
Biographies of each of the year periods of appointment, the terms major shareholders and has a dedicated Directors, their responsibilities and Board of which are substantially in the same internal investor relations department.
Committee memberships are set out on format as suggested by the Code, with Briefings on market activity, together with page 28.
The following changes to the three month notice periods and no the views of shareholders and analysts Board have taken place since last years compensation for loss of office.
Further on the Company, are also regularly Annual Report: details on each Directors remuneration, provided to the Board.
including the dates of their contracts On 31 July 2008 David Goldie and with the Company, are set out in the There is a clear and documented division Andrew Harrison stood down as Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38. of responsibilities between the roles of Executive Directors and Adrian Martin the Chairman and the Chief Executive stood down as a Non-Executive Director.
There are also documented On 7 December 2008, David Ross The Board meets formally at least six schedules of matters reserved to the resigned as Deputy Non-Executive times a year, with additional meetings Board and matters delegated to Chairman.
All Board papers are sent Committees of the Board.
Such reserved out on a timely basis with sufficient matters include decisions on strategic Between the period of 30 March 2008 information for the Directors to be able and policy issues, the approval of and 31 July 2008, the Board comprised to discharge their duties.
The Board met published financial statements and major four Executive Directors and eight formally six times during the period acquisitions and disposals, authority Non-Executive Directors including the including a strategy day.
All Directors levels for expenditure, treasury and risk Non-Executive Chairman and Nonformally attended these meetings with management policies.
Strategic and Executive Deputy Chairman.
Following the exception of Steven Esom who policy issues are reviewed annually at a David Goldie, Andrew Harrison and was absent from the meeting held on combined Board and senior executive Adrian Martin standing down, the number 20 May 2008 due to a prior engagement strategy day.
of Executive Directors decreased to that could not be changed.
The Company two and the number of Non-Executive Secretary ensures that all Board papers Performance evaluation Directors decreased to seven.
Following are sent out to non-attending Directors During the period the balance of skills, the resignation of David Ross on and that, where possible, any comments knowledge and experience of the 7 December 2008, the number of they have are received beforehand Directors was reviewed.
The Board, and Non-Executive Directors reduced to six.
so that they can be expressed at each individual Director, also undertook the meeting.
Using the Between the period of 30 March 2008 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice as and 31 July 2008, six of the NonOperation of the Board guidance, the individual Directors initially Executive Directors excluding the The wide range of experience and completed separate questionnaires.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the expertise of the Non-Executive Directors, results were collated for and analysed by Non-Executive Deputy Chairman combined with the skill sets of the the Chairman, the Senior Independent were considered to be Independent Executive Directors, provides vast Director, the Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Directors.
They were experience of retailing, mobile and fixed the Board as a whole.
The areas covered Sir Brian Pitman, Baroness Morgan, line telecommunications and general included the roles of the Executive and David Mansfield, Steven Esom, business experience, strong personal Non-Executive Directors, the Board, the Adrian Martin and David Grigson.
skills and independence of thought and Board Committees, the Chairman of the www.
com 29 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued Company, preparation for and review the Companys internal financial Audit Committee performance at meetings, the The Committee currently comprises the controls and its internal control and effectiveness of each Director, risk management systems and to make following Independent Non-Executive leadership, culture and corporate Directors: David Grigson Chairman, recommendations to the Board: governance.
The results were then Sir Brian Pitman, David Mansfield, considered by the Board as a specific Steven Esom and Baroness Morgan.
review the Companys arrangements item of business.
The Board intends that by which employees may raise David Grigson served as Chairman these exercises or similar ones continue throughout the year.
All of the Committee concerns in confidence: to be carried out each year.
members have extensive commercial experience.
The Committee met formally monitor and review the effectiveness of Following such performance evaluation the Companys internal audit function: four times during the year.
All members the Chairman confirms that all those attended each meeting, with the Non-Executive Directors seeking make recommendations to the Board exception of Steven Esom who was re-election at the Annual General absent from the meeting on 20 May 2008 in relation to the appointment, Meeting continue to be effective and re-appointment and removal of due to a prior engagement that could demonstrate a commitment to the role, not be changed.
external auditors and to approve including having time to attend all their remuneration and terms of necessary meetings and to carry out The Chairman of the Committee updates engagement: other appropriate duties.
the Board on any significant issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting review and monitor the external The Chairman meets regularly with all the auditors independence and objectivity following each Committee meeting.
Independent Non-Executive Directors During the year, all the requirements of and the effectiveness of the audit usually in the evening prior to a Board process, taking into consideration the Code in respect of the Committee meeting.
This provides the opportunity were met.
The work undertaken by the relevant UK professional and to raise any questions regarding the regulatory requirements: and Committee is described within the performance of the Executive Directors following sections of this Report.
or in respect of any other matters.
review the Companys policy on the The Groups Chief Financial Officer and engagement of the external auditors The Senior Independent Director also to supply non-audit services.
In this other senior management attend met with the Non-Executive Directors, in Committee meetings by invitation of the context the Committees remit requires the absence of the Chairman, to assess it to report to the Board identifying any Committee.
Representatives of the the Chairmans effectiveness, having first Companys external auditors and the matters in respect of which it considers reviewed the results of a performance that action or improvement is needed other senior executives from Finance, Tax, evaluation questionnaire completed by Treasury, Legal and Risk and Business and to make recommendations as to all the Directors apart from the Chairman.
Assurance also attend these meetings by The Board is of the opinion that the invitation of the Committee.
The external Chairman had no other significant In light of the assessments and and internal auditors have direct access commitments during the period that to the Committee during formal meetings review undertaken, the Committee would have affected his performance recommended to the Board that and time is set aside for them to have in his role.
private discussions with the Committee, Deloitte LLP be retained as auditors of the Company.
This recommendation in the absence of management.
External appointments was endorsed by the Board.
The Board supports Executive Directors The Committees terms of reference, taking up Non-Executive Directorships as which are available on request from The policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external part of their continued development, and the Company Secretary and are the Board believes that this will ultimately published on the Groups website auditors specifies the types of work from which the external auditors are excluded: benefit the Company.
com, comply with the provided in the Remuneration Report on Code.
During the period, the formal for which the external auditors can be engaged without referral to the Committee: pages 33 to 38. calendar of items considered at each Audit Committee meeting within each and for which a case-by-case decision is required.
In order to safeguard the Board Committees annual cycle embraced the Code There are five key Board Committees: requirements to: auditors objectivity and independence, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees is Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Insurance Compliance and Consumer monitor the integrity of the financial monitored by the Committee within an statements of the Company, and any overall limit set by the Board on the Regulation Compliance.
The Committees are provided with sufficient resources formal announcements relating to recommendation of the Committee.
the Companys financial performance, via the Company Secretary and, where necessary, have direct access to including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained independent professional advisors to undertake their duties.
in them: 30 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009 A statement of fees paid or accrued for Its terms of reference comply with the Data Protection and Advertising services from the external auditors Code, are available on request from the Standards, and to provide the Nonduring the period is set out below: Company Secretary and are published on Executive Directors, through David the Companys website.
The Chairman of Mansfield, with visibility of these 2009 2008 the Committee updates the Board compliance issues.
The Committee met m m following each Committee meeting.
formally three times during the period.
Audit services: The Chairman of the Committee also Nomination Committee updates the Board following each statutory audit 0.9 1.6 During the period the Committee Committee meeting.
Tax services 1.1 0.3 comprised the following Non-Executive Other services 0.4 0.3 Directors: Sir Brian Pitman Chairman, Risk management and internal control Total 2.4 2.2 John Gildersleeve and Baroness Morgan.
The Company has established a risk The Committee meets as and when management programme that assists The Groups share of audit fees for joint ventures required to discuss succession planning management throughout the Company and associates was 0.6m in the year.
and consideration of appropriate to identify, assess and mitigate business, appointments to the Board.
The financial, operational and compliance Certain non-audit services are preapproved by the Committee depending Committee met once during the year and risks.
The Board views management of each member attended the meeting.
risk as integral to good business upon the nature and size of the service.
Tax services principally comprise practice.
The programme is designed to The Committees terms of reference support managements decision making technical advice associated with relevant UK and international fiscal comply with the Code and are available and to improve the reliability of business from the Company Secretary on request performance.
laws and regulations and, in particular, assessment of the potential implications and are published on the Groups website www.
The The risk management programme is of proposed corporate transactions or restructuring.
Having undertaken a Committee is responsible for succession supported by a dedicated team of risk planning at Board level, overseeing the specialists, including internal auditors, review of the non-audit related work, the Committee has satisfied itself that the selection and appointment of Directors, who comprise the Group Risk and regularly reviewing the structure, size and Business Assurance function.
To ensure services undertaken during the period did not prejudice the external auditors composition of the Board and making that all parts of the Group have a good its recommendations to the Board.
understanding of risk, members of this independence.
It assists in evaluating the commitments team have conducted risk workshops of individual Directors and the balance and reviews within each of the main At each of its meetings the Committee reviewed and considered reports on Risk of skills, knowledge and experience operating divisions in the past year, on the Board.
culminating in an assessment of key and Business Assurance on the status of the Groups risk management systems, business risks by the Executive Insurance Compliance Committee Directors and senior management.
findings from the internal audit function concerning internal controls, and reports The Committee is chaired by Baroness These risk assessments have been Morgan and is attended by senior wide-ranging, covering risks arising from on the status of any weaknesses in internal controls identified by the internal executives.
The role of the Committee is the regulatory environment, strategy, to review the Groups compliance with counter-parties and organisational or external auditors.
regulatory matters concerning the sale of change associated both with major insurance products to customers and to projects and with acquisitions.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee currently comprises the provide the Non-Executive Directors, risk management process operates through Baroness Morgan, with visibility throughout the Group, being applied following independent Non-Executive Directors: Sir Brian Pitman Chairman, of compliance issues.
The Committee equally to the main business divisions met formally four times during the period.
David Mansfield, Steven Esom, Baroness Morgan and David Grigson.
The Chairman of the Committee also updates the Board following each The output from each annual assessment The Committee met formally four times Committee meeting.
is a list of key strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
during the period and each member attended every meeting.
Adrian Martin Consumer Regulation Compliance Associated action plans and controls Committee to mitigate them are also put in place attended one meeting before standing down.
Other Directors, the Company The Committee is chaired by David where this is possible and to the extent Mansfield and is attended by senior considered appropriate by the Board Secretary, the Group Director of Human Resources, and advisors attended by executives.
The role of the Committee is taking account of costs and benefits.
to review the Groups compliance with Changes in the status of the key risks invitation only.
A detailed description of the Committees remit and work fixed line regulatory matters, consumer and changes to the risk matrix are regulation across the fixed and mobile reported regularly to the Audit during the period is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38. businesses including Trading Standards, Committee and at each Board Meeting.
com 31 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued The Directors have overall responsibility announcements and Company for the Groups systems of internal control publications.
In all such communications, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
care is taken to ensure that no price The Board delegates to executive sensitive information is released.
management the responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring The Chief Executive Officer and Chief these systems.
The systems are based on Financial Officer have lead responsibility a process of identifying, evaluating and for investor relations.
They are supported managing key risks and include the risk by a dedicated investor relations management processes set out above.
department that, amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and The systems of internal control were institutional investors.
There is a full in place throughout the period and up programme of regular dialogue with to the date of approval of the Annual major institutional shareholders, fund Report and financial statements.
The managers, analysts, retail brokers and effectiveness of these systems is credit investors, upon which the periodically reviewed by the Audit Chairman ensures that the Board Committee in accordance with the receives regular updates at Board revised guidance in the Turnbull Report.
The Board also receives These systems are also refined as periodic reports on investors views necessary to meet changes in the of the performance of the Company.
Groups business and associated risks.
All the Non-Executive Directors and, The systems of internal control are in particular, the Chairman and Senior designed to manage rather than eliminate Independent Director, are available to the risk of failure to achieve business meet with major shareholders, if such objectives.
They can only provide meetings are required.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or The Company also communicates with breaches of laws and regulations.
shareholders through the Annual General Meeting, at which the Chairman gives an The Board has conducted an annual account of the progress of the business review of the effectiveness of the over the last year, and a review of current systems of risk management and internal issues, and provides the opportunity for control in operation during the year and shareholders to ask questions.
up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and financial statements Further financial and business and this was approved by the Audit information is available on the Committee and the Board.
This is supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group, by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function.
Communication with investors The Board believes it is important to explain business developments and financial results to the Companys shareholders and to understand any shareholder concerns.
The principal communication media used to impart information to shareholders are news releases including results 32 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2009
