Corporate Governance Report The directors are responsible for the corporate governance of the inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other Group.
They support the principles of good corporate governance than public holidays at the Companys of ces from the date the and code of best practice laid down by the Combined Code on notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM.
Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code.
Independence of directors All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 the Board believes it under any of the relevant codes and regulations.
has complied with the principles and provisions recommended by the Combined Code.
The manner in which the Company has applied The Senior Independent Non-executive Director, David Clark, has the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code responsibility for dealing with any shareholders who have concerns, during 2009 is outlined below.
The Combined Code is publicly which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief available at www.
Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Directors Induction, professional development and management contact Composition of the Board All directors receive induction on joining the Board and relevant The Board currently comprises two executive directors, four training is available to directors to assist them in the performance independent non-executive directors and a non-executive of their duties.
The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Chairman.
There were no changes to the membership of the Board Committee receive brie ngs on current developments.
The directors biographies are shown on page 23 non-executive directors take advantage of sector and general and demonstrate the Boards depth of experience and skill.
The conferences and seminars and training events organised by non-executive directors also have the range of experience and the professional rms and receive circulars and training materials from calibre to exercise independent judgement and contribute to Board the Company and other professional advisers.
Four of the directors and three of the non-executive made for non-executive directors to meet and receive regular directors have extensive previous experience at a senior level in the presentations from members of the management teams and they financial services sector and three of the directors are chartered attend the Companys management conferences.
During the year accountants two of whom were audit partners in a major rm the Board held a meeting in New York and reviewed the activities of of accountants, one of the non-executive directors was a Senior the North American businesses and met the regional management Adviser to the FSA, and both the Chairman and the Finance Director team.
Non-executive directors also visit the Companys were previously Finance Directors of a number of other companies.
international of ces, usually in connection with other activities.
The average age of the members of the Board is 55 non-executive directors, including the Chairman 57 and the average length Con icts of interest of service of the non-executive directors excluding the Chairman The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider including membership of the Board of Collins Stewart Tullett plc and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a director has an is five years.
interest that con icts, or may possibly con ict, with the interests of the Company a Relevant Situation.
The Board has a formal The Chairman, Keith Hamill was, at appointment, independent system in place for directors to declare Relevant Situations to be of the Company and the management.
Keith Hamills other considered for authorisation by those directors who have no signi cant commitments are noted in his biography on page 23. interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Relevant Situation, the non-con icted directors must There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to and the Chief Executive.
The primary responsibility of the Chairman promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits is the leadership of the Board.
The primary responsibility of the or conditions when giving the authorisation or subsequently if Chief Executive, Terry Smith, is the running of the Companys they think this is appropriate.
The Board has followed the prescribed operations and the development and implementation of strategy procedures in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise in order to maximise shareholder value.
Relevant Situations and believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering Relevant Situations, including an In the event that any of the executive directors wished to take annual review of authorisations, continue to operate effectively.
up a non-executive appointment with another company, the Board would be amenable to such a proposal, provided that the time Performance evaluation commitment involved would not be too onerous.
Following the Reviews of the performance of the Board, its Committees and demerger of Collins Stewart plc on 19 December 2006, Terry Smith individual directors in respect of the previous financial year became Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
In that capacity, have been undertaken.
In this process, consideration was given Mr Smiths annual fee is 200,000, which he is entitled to retain.
to whether the Board or Committee ful lled its terms of reference satisfactorily, whether the terms of reference needed to be The terms of the directors service agreements and letters of revised, whether the administration operated effectively and appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors whether individual directors performed their roles effectively.
Remuneration set out on pages 30 to 35.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for 26 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information In March 2009 and March 2010, the Chairman formally met with and business issues under review.
All Board meetings are minuted the non-executive directors without the executive directors being and any unresolved concerns are recorded in such minutes.
present to evaluate, amongst other matters, the performance of the individual executive directors.
The Senior Independent The Board has a schedule of eight meetings each year to discuss the Non-executive Director also met with the other non-executive Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort is made to arrange directors without the Chairman being present to evaluate the these meetings so that all directors can attend: additional meetings Chairmans performance.
Appropriate feedback was provided are arranged as required.
The Chairman has also provided feedback on performance to the non-executive directors.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year and attendance by directors Re-election at those meetings: All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM Audit Remuneration after their appointment.
Thereafter, any director who has held Board Committee Committee of ce for three years or more is required to retire by rotation at the Total number of meetings 8 5 7 AGM but is entitled to seek re-election.
Paul Mainwaring and Rupert Robson will seek re-election at the AGM in May 2010: the Board is satis ed that, following formal performance evaluation, each of Executive Directors these directors performance continues to be effective, and each Terry Smith 8 demonstrates commitment to their role.
Paul Mainwaring 8 The Board has commenced the process of recruiting an additional non-executive director with the experience to act as the Senior Non-executive Directors Independent Director.
David Clark has agreed to the Boards Keith Hamill 8 6 request to remain on the Board until the AGM in 2011.
David Clark 8 5 7 Board administration Michael Fallon 8 5 7 The Board has a formal Schedule of matters reserved to it Richard Kilsby 8 5 7 for decision, which can be viewed on the Companys website Rupert Robson 8 5 7 www.
The Schedule includes, among other things: excludes meetings of committees of the Board appointed to approval of the Groups strategy: complete business approved by the Board or routine business.
Keith Hamill stood down as a member of the Remuneration changes to the Groups management and control structure: Committee during the year, and was present at all six meetings of the Remuneration Committee held during his time as a member.
a pproval of any material borrowing or commitment: There were no meetings of the Nominations Committee held Board appointments and removals: during 2009. reporting to shareholders: and All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and there are procedures in place for taking independent environmental, social and governance policies, including professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board Beneath the Board there is a structure of delegated authority which keeps up to date with key changes in legislation which affect the sets out the authority levels allocated to the individual directors Company.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary and senior management.
is a matter reserved for the Board.
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Audit Committee Committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Kilsby, who has recent Each of the Committees has detailed terms of reference, which can and relevant financial experience.
The other members of the Audit be viewed on the Companys website and a schedule of business Committee are David Clark, Michael Fallon and Rupert Robson, all to be transacted during the year.
The responsibilities of each of the of whom are independent non-executive directors.
committees together with an overview of their meetings during the year are described below.
The Chairman, the executive directors, the Companys external and internal auditors, the Group Treasurer and Head of Risk Control, and The Board and its Committees are provided with appropriate other senior finance personnel may attend Committee meetings information on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their by invitation.
The Committee has a discussion with the external duties.
All directors receive written reports prior to each meeting auditors at least once a year without executive directors being which enable them to make an informed decision on corporate present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Tullett Prebon plc 27 Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report continued Throughout 2009 the Committees terms of reference included: The terms of reference of the Audit Committee will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other recommendation on appointment of the external auditors: than public holidays at the Companys of ces from the date the notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM, and are review of independence and objectivity of external auditors: also available on the Companys website.
review of effectiveness of the audit process: Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Rupert Robson.
The approval of the annual audit plan and scope of audit engagement: other members of the Remuneration Committee are Michael Fallon, David Clark, and Richard Kilsby, all of whom are independent monitoring the integrity of the financial statements: non-executive directors.
Keith Hamill, the Company Chairman, was a member of the Remuneration Committee until September 2009. review of the results of the audit: The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal Remuneration Committee: control procedures: developing the Companys remuneration policies: review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function and consideration of internal audit reports: and reviewing the relationship between incentives and risk: review of the arrangements by which staff may, in con dence, determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and the raise concerns about improprieties in financial reporting and Chairman: other matters.
reviewing and approving the remuneration of Senior During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the cost Management after consultation with the Chief Executive: effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and the level of fees received in respect of the various services oversight of the remuneration policies applicable to Brokers: and provided by them in addition to the audit during 2009.
The auditors con rmed to the Audit Committee that they did not believe that approving all share and long term incentive schemes and the level of non-audit fees had affected their independence.
Audit Committee additionally considered the professional and regulatory guidance on auditor independence and was satis ed The Chief Executive attends certain parts of meetings of the with the auditors representations.
The Audit Committees policy Remuneration Committee by invitation.
The Chairman does not is to use the most appropriate advisers for non-audit work, taking attend meetings where his own remuneration is being discussed.
account of the need to maintain independence.
During 2009 and subsequently, the Remuneration Committee has The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the half-year and been advised by  executive compensation preliminary announcements of results and the statutory accounts consultants.
prior to their approval by the Board.
When conducting the review, the Committee considers the continuing appropriateness of the Further details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service accounting policies, judgements made in the production of the contracts and share options are given in the Report on Directors numbers and the adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures.
The Committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff may, The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee will be in con dence, raise concerns about improprieties in matters of available for inspection during normal business hours on any week financial reporting or other matters.
In conducting the review, day other than public holidays at the Companys of ces from the the Committee took into account whether the policies were in date the notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM, line with guidance published by the FSA.
and are also available on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee received reports from the internal auditor, The Report on Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 30 to 35.
, during the year and reviewed the schedule of work proposed by the internal auditor, the resources Nominations Committee available to carry out the schedule and key findings.
A system of The Nominations Committee is chaired by Keith Hamill.
The reporting to follow up on all matters raised by both internal and other members of the Nominations Committee are David Clark, external audit was taken into account in assessing the effectiveness Michael Fallon, Richard Kilsby and Rupert Robson, all of whom are of the internal audit function.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee provide that the Chairman of the Board would not be permitted to chair the Committee if it were dealing with the issue of his replacement.
28 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Board has delegated responsibility to the Nominations representation, but not control, the internal control systems Committee for: present in those entities.
The Boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently reviewing the balance and skill, knowledge and experience less comprehensive than in its directly owned subsidiaries.
of the Board: Relations with shareholders agreeing and implementing procedures for the selection The Board recognises the importance of communication with of new Board appointments: and shareholders.
com, provides information for shareholders on the Groups activities, making recommendations to the Board on all proposed new results, products and recent developments.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund In considering the appointment of new non-executive directors, managers and analysts, including presentations around the time the Committee takes account of the time commitment likely to be of the results announcements and also on request.
The Chairman required of the appointee.
The likely time commitment is referred maintains ongoing relations with shareholders when necessary to in all new letters of appointment.
or appropriate and is available to those shareholders who have a policy of regular contact or who wish to discuss speci c matters.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee will be The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other available for inspection during normal business hours on any week non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders, day other than public holidays at the Companys of ces from should such meetings be requested.
the date the notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM and are also available on the Companys website.
Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and No new appointments to the Board were proposed or made during welcomes their participation.
Notice of the AGM, and related 2009, and no meetings of the Nominations Committee were held.
papers, are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the directors, Risk management and internal control including Chairmen of the Committees of the Board, are available at The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and AGMs to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy votes ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are disclosed framework and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, at those meetings.
To encourage shareholder participation, those evaluating, managing and reporting the signi cant risks faced by shareholders whose shares are held via the CREST system are the Group.
The Groups risk management governance structure offered the facility to submit their proxy votes via CREST.
and the Groups risk pro le are described in the Risk Management section of the Business Review.
Accountability and Audit The directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal the Annual Report is set out on page 36 and the independent control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging its auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is on page 38. responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit Committee to carry out the annual review of the effectiveness Going concern of the internal control and risk management systems and to report The Groups business activities and performance, and the financial to the Board thereon.
This process has been in place for the year position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position, borrowing under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, facilities and hedging strategy, together with the factors likely is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull to affect its future development, performance and position, are guidance appended to the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee discussed in the Business Review on pages 05 to 21.
Analysis of conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the Groups the Groups key risks and approach to risk management is also internal control systems for 2009, considering reports from set out in the Business Review on pages 15 to 18.
Details of the management, external audit and the work of the risk control Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, derivative financial and internal audit functions.
instruments, obligations under finance leases, long-term provisions, other long-term payables and financial instruments are set out in The Group has a comprehensive system for financial reporting Notes 21 to 26. which is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
Budgets, regular re-forecasts and monthly management accounts The Group has considerable financial resources both in the regions including balance sheets and cash ows are prepared at all levels and at the corporate centre to comfortably meet the Groups of the business and consolidated reports are reviewed by the Board.
These reports include comparisons of performance and position against prior year, budgets and forecasts.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the annual report associated companies.
Where the Group is not directly involved in and accounts continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
the management of the investment, it can in uence, through board Tullett Prebon plc 29 Annual Report 2009
