Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, in applying financial reporting and internal control including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
principles and to maintain an appropriate relationship Mr Boyle was appointed Chairman of the Committee in with the Groups auditors.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in  LLP.
The other two The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in members are Mr Bruce and Mr Watson, who were its terms of reference, which comply with the Combined appointed in 2002 and 2006 respectively: details of their Code.
The terms of reference are available on request qualifications and experience are given on page 21.
The from the Company Secretary and can be seen on the Committees programme is to meet at least three times a Companys website.
year: in advance of the publication of both the annual and the half year results and on at least one other The Committee is responsible for monitoring the occasion with an agenda that is focused on its broader integrity of the Companys financial statements, responsibilities.
including consideration of the Companys accounting policies and significant reporting judgements.
It reviews The Committee held four meetings during the year, at the Companys internal financial controls and risk two of which representatives of the auditors were present: management systems.
It reviews the scope and to consider the outcome of the audit of the Groups 2008 effectiveness of the audit process and monitors the financial statements and to consider the plan for the auditors independence and objectivity.
It makes audit of the Groups 2009 financial statements.
recommendations in relation to the appointment of the external auditors, including their remuneration and the During the year the Committee addressed all the matters provision by them of any non-audit services.
The set out as its responsibilities under its terms of reference Committee has established a procedure to ensure that the and confirmed that the Group should not establish an engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services internal audit function.
In particular, the Committee cannot exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit considered the Boards contractual arrangements with fees without due consideration being given by the investment managers and with sub-contractors.
Committee to the proposed appointment.
The Committee also reviews the process for negotiating and monitoring major contracts undertaken by the Company, the Boards investment restrictions and the values attributed to the unlisted investments.
It ensures that the Company maintains appropriate compliance with the requirements of regulators: and it reviews the reporting of investment performance.
The Committee reports to the Board, identifying matters on which it Robert Boyle considers that action is needed and making Chairman of the Audit Committee recommendations on the steps to be taken.
