Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Background disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The AIC The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Code can be viewed at www.
co. uk Rules the Disclosure Rules require listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and Compliance complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 the Corporate Governance the Combined Code, as issued Company complied with the provisions of the AIC Code.
by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC.
The The Board attaches importance to the matters set out in provisions of the Combined Code issued by the FRC in the Code and seeks to observe its principles.
The Board June 2008 were applicable in the year under review.
The considers that reporting against the principles and Combined Code can be viewed at www.
uk recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC provides the most relevant information to shareholders.
Code, issued by the Association of the Investment Companies the AIC in March 2009, provides specific The Principles of the AIC Code corporate governance guidelines to investment The AIC Code is made up of twenty one principles.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member three sections cover: the Board: Board Meetings and companies who report against the AIC Code and who relations with the Investment Manager: and Shareholder follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Communications.
Investment Companies will be meeting its obligations in relation to the Combined Code and the associated Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board 1.
The chairman should be Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since the Annual independent.
General Meeting in March 2003: he joined the Board in 1988.
The Board considers that Mr Henderson is, and has been since his appointment, an independent non-executive director.
Independence stems from the ability to make those objective decisions that may be in conflict with the interests of management: this in turn is a function of confidence, integrity and judgement.
Mr Henderson has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Accordingly, he stands for election by the shareholders each year and will do so for as long as he continues to serve on the Board.
The Board is firmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
The other independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, review and evaluate annually the performance and continuing independence of the Chairman.
Mr Henderson was formerly a partner of Cazenove & Co. the firm which for many years acted as the Companys stockbroker.
However, he did not have responsibility for or involvement with Cazenoves role with the Company, being for many years responsible for aspects of Cazenoves fund management division.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Chairman has no relationships that might create a conflict of interest between his interests and those of the other shareholders.
28 Annual Report 2009 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 2.
A majority of the board should At 31 December 2009 the Board was composed of seven independent nonbe independent of the executive directors and one executive director the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board expects to maintain this balance, although when new directors are appointed to replace those retiring there will for short periods of time be more than eight directors.
The Board is therefore independent of the Companys executive management.
All the directors are wholly independent of the Companys various investment managers.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
Directors should be elected for New directors stand for election by the shareholders at the annual general a fixed term of no more than meeting of the Company that follows their appointment.
Nomination for redirectors stand for re-election at least every three years.
Directors who have election should not be assumed served for more than nine years stand for re-election annually.
There are but be based on disclosed currently two directors with service of more than nine years: Mr H M procedures.
Henderson the Chairman and Mr R H McGrath.
Every year the Board reviews its composition and the composition of its two Committees.
The evaluation process is led by the Chairman: the Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the Chairman.
The Boards Remuneration Committee, which serves as its nominations committee, oversees this process.
The board should have a policy New directors are appointed for an initial term ending three years from the on tenure, which is disclosed in date of their first annual general meeting after appointment and with the the annual report.
expectation that they will serve two three-year terms.
The continuation of directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally every three years by the Board as a whole.
None of the directors has a contract of service and a director may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass past and current experience of various areas that is relevant to the Companys objective and operations, the most important skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
Specialist agents are used to assist with recruitment.
While the roles and contributions of longer serving directors are subject to more rigorous review, the Board is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and that the shareholders benefit from having directors with a longer perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savings market.
Therefore there is no absolute limit to the period for which a director may serve.
29 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 5.
There should be full disclosure Details of the directors are set out on page 21.
They demonstrate a broad range of information about the of investment, professional and commercial expertise and experience, gained board.
overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
The board should aim to have The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
a balance of skills, experience, ages and length of service.
The board should undertake a The Board has established a process to evaluate its performance on an annual formal and rigorous annual basis.
This process is based on open discussion and seeks to assess the evaluation of its own strengths and weaknesses of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman performance and that of its leads on applying the conclusions of the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews committees and individual with each director his or her individual performance, contribution and directors.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
The Boards Remuneration Committee oversees this process.
Director remuneration should The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 38 details the process for reflect their duties, determining the directors remuneration and sets out the amounts payable.
responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The independent directors The Boards Remuneration Committee serves as its nominations committee should take the lead in the and oversees the recruitment process.
However, all the independent nonappointment of new directors executive directors are asked to contribute and to consider serving on the suband the process should be committee appointed to draw up the shortlist of candidates.
However, the disclosed in the annual report.
Chairman would not be involved in the selection of his successor.
Directors should be offered Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an introductory relevant training and programme covering the Companys strategy, policies and operations, induction.
including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend seminars, conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys executive team and of the Company Secretary, through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The chairman and the board As a long established investment trust company, this principle does not apply should be brought into the to the Company.
process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
30 Annual Report 2009 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles Board meetings and the relationship with the manager 12.
Boards and managers should The Board meets at least ten times each year.
The Chief Executive Officer who operate in a supportive, cois himself a director, other representatives of the Companys executive team operative and open and a representative of the Company Secretary expect to be present at all environment.
The Board devotes two full days each year to meetings with the Companys investment managers and each investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the Board and a supportive and co-operative relationship with the executive team and with the Companys investment managers, advisors and support staff.
The primary focus at regular The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor investment performance board meetings should be a and all associated matters.
He reports to each Board meeting, at which review of investment investment performance, asset allocation, gearing, marketing and investor performance and associated relations are usually key agenda items.
matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for determining the strategic direction of the attention to overall strategy.
Company and for promoting its success.
The Board meets at least ten times each year.
At least one of these meetings is devoted entirely to reviewing overall strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
The board should regularly The Boards Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of and the review both the performance of, contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief and contractual arrangements Executive Officer is responsible to the Board for reviewing the performance with, the manager or executives and the contractual arrangements of his staff.
The Boards Remuneration of a self-managed company.
The board should agree policies The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to the Board for all operational with the manager covering key matters.
He operates within agreed parameters and reports to each Board operational issues.
Each of the investment managers operates within the terms of the mandate given to them, as set out in the relevant investment management contract.
Boards should monitor the The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor the share price and the level of the share price discount discount to net asset value on a daily basis and he reports to every Board or premium if any and, if meeting.
desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board has a share buy-back programme that seeks to reduce the volatility of the share price and to maintain the discount at not more than 10%.
The board should monitor and The Chief Executive Officer and his team are responsible for monitoring and evaluate other service evaluating the performance of the Companys various service providers, providers.
The Boards Audit Committee oversees this process.
31 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles Shareholder communications 19.
The board should regularly The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective monitor the shareholder profile communication with the Companys shareholders.
He works closely with the of the company and put in Chief Executive Officer and there is regular liaison with the Companys place a system for canvassing stockbroker.
There is a process in place for analysing and monitoring the shareholder views and for shareholder register and a programme for meeting or speaking with the communicating the boards institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expect to be available to meet the larger shareholders.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with the individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee all expect to be present and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The board should normally While the Chief Executive Officer and his team expect to lead on preparing take responsibility for, and and effecting communications with investors, all major corporate issues are have a direct involvement in, put to the Board or, if time is of the essence, to a Committee thereof.
the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The board should ensure that The Board places importance on effective communication with investors and shareholders are provided with approves a marketing programme and budget each year to enable this to be sufficient information for them achieved.
Copies of the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are circulated to understand the risk : reward to shareholders, to those who hold shares through the subsidiary companys balance to which they are products and, where possible, to investors through other providers products exposed by holding the shares.
In addition, the Company publishes a fact sheet monthly and its net asset value per share daily.
All this information is readily accessible on the Companys website www.
The Company belongs to the Association of Investment Companies which publishes information to increase investors understanding.
32 Annual Report 2009 The Board Meetings of the Board and its Committees The Board is collectively responsible for the success of The number of formal meetings during the year of the the Company.
Its role is to provide leadership within a Board and its Committees, and the attendance of the framework of prudent and effective controls that enable individual directors at those meetings, is shown in the risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the table that follows.
Companys strategic aims subject to the Companys Audit Remuneration Articles of Association, and to such approval of the Number of meetings Board Committee Committee shareholders in general meeting as may be required from time to time and ensures that the necessary 1143 resources are in place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
H M Henderson 11 3 3 R E Clarke 11 4 3 The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with A W Jones 3 of 3 1 of 1 the most important aspects of the Companys affairs, R H McGrath 11 3 including the setting of parameters for and the R A Bruce 10 4 monitoring of investment strategy, the review of A Watson 11 4 investment performance and the extent to which J E B Bevan 10 borrowings may be used.
The Chief Executive Officer R W Boyle 10 4 is responsible to the Board for the overall management M C Claydon 9 of 9 2 of 2 of the Company including business development, shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all industry matters, administration and unquoted or part of the meetings.
During 2009, following a review of the All the then directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April and, with the exception of Mr Bruce, the Boards away day in May.
business, the Board decided to re-combine the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer.
Directors Remuneration The duties of the combined role of the Chief Executive The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors Officer also include leading on investment strategy and Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 38. asset allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of reference and Accountability and Audit on the use of derivatives.
The Chief Executive Officer The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report includes the accounts is set out on page 39. confirmation that the Boards investment limits and restrictions have been adhered to, including those which govern the Companys tax status as an investment trust, The report of the independent auditors is set out on and includes confirmation from each of the investment pages 40 and 41. managers that they have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of their investment The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, mandates.
The investment managers take decisions as to including the various investment managers, the the purchase and sale of individual investments and are management of the investment portfolio, global custody responsible for effecting those decisions on the best which includes the safeguarding of the assets, the available terms.
The Chairman is responsible for investment administration, management and financial ensuring that the directors are provided, in a timely accounting, company secretarial and certain other manner, with management, regulatory and financial administrative requirements and the registration services.
information that is clear, accurate and relevant, whether Each of these contracts was entered into after full and from the Chief Executive Officer or otherwise.
proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including the control systems in Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Board have been defined and there is an agreed Company.
The Board receives and considers regular procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their reports from the investment managers and ad hoc reports duties, to take independent professional advice, if and information are supplied to the Board from its other necessary, at the Companys expense.
Board Committees Internal Control The Board has established Audit and Remuneration The Board has established an ongoing process for Committees.
The membership of the Audit Committee identifying, evaluating and managing the significant and the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 21, risks faced by the Company.
This process accords with in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 35 and in the Turnbull guidance, is subject to regular review by the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 38. the Audit Committee and was fully in place during the 33 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued year under review and up to the date of this annual collectively, is measured for Witan by a company that is report.
The Board remains responsible for the independent of all the investment managers.
The Companys system of internal control and has corporate company secretary is a company with long conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the experience in servicing investment trusts.
The system, covering all the controls, including financial, appointment of these and other professional contractors operational and compliance controls and risk provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of management systems.
This review took into account internal controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board points raised during the year in the regular appraisal of will continue to monitor its system of internal control in specific areas of risk.
order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide Going Concern reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities misstatement or loss.
that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, The Board routinely reviews the Companys business the directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to risks.
These are analysed and recorded in a risk map.
The adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Company receives from its main contractors formal statements.
In reviewing the position as at the date of reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas this report, the Board has considered the guidance on of risk and which report the details of any known this matter issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board receives each year See also note 1 b on page 46. from its investment managers and its investment administrator reports on their internal controls: with three exceptions each of these includes a report from the Exercise of Voting Powers relevant companys auditors on the control policies and It is the Boards view that in order to achieve long term procedures in operation.
success companies need to maintain high standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore the Board encourages its investment managers The Companys subsidiary, Witan Investment Services to vote proxies in the best long term interest of Witan Limited, is authorised and regulated by the Financial shareholders and in accordance with their own Services Authority to provide investment products and investment philosophies.
The Companys UK equity services.
The compliance structures required for these managers expect UK companies to comply with the activities, including a compliance manual and a Combined Code, including the Turnbull Guidance on compliance monitoring programme, have been duly put Internal Control, or to provide adequate explanation of into place.
any area in which they fail to comply, whilst recognising that a different approach may be justified in special The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in circumstances.
Elsewhere, it can be more difficult to vote confidence any concerns about possible improprieties, shares as each country has its own rules and practices whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for regarding shareholder notification, voting restrictions, appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises registration conditions and share blocking, including, for only six people including the Chief Executive Officer, example, dealing constraints.
Therefore, whilst the Board who are well known to and have frequent formal and has agreed general policies with the non-UK managers, informal contact with the members of the Board.
they do use their discretion in applying these in individual circumstances.
The Company does not have an internal audit function.
It delegates to third parties the management of its New Zealand Listing investments and most of its other operations and It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate employs only a small staff.
The investment managers and Governance may differ materially from the New Zealand certain other key contractors are subject to external Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best Practice regulation and most have compliance and internal audit Code.
The Companys investments are held on its behalf by a global custodian.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and administrators is By order of the Board responsible for investment administration, for G S Rice ACIS maintaining accounting records and for preparing For and on behalf of financial accounts, management accounts and other Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, management information.
The investment performance Secretary of the investment managers, both individually and 12 March 2010 34
