Governance Corporate Governance Report 2009 Board and committee meetings attendance The Board believes that good corporate Corporate governance contributes to improved Company Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee Committee performance by ensuring that there is a Number of clearly defined framework of roles, meetings 14 4 6 3 4 responsibilities and delegated duties.
These Roger Carr 14 6 3 support the Boards aim to deliver stability Sam Laidlaw 14 3 4 and growth for the benefit of customers, Phil Bentley 14 4 employees and shareholders.
Mark Hanafin 14 Nick Luff 14 This report explains how the Board applied i Chris Weston 5 2 the principles of the Combined Code on Helen Alexander 13 4 6 3 Corporate Governance during 2009.
Mary Francis 13 3 4 2 4 Andrew Mackenzie 14 4 6 3 4 Paul Rayner 13 4 6 3 ii Board of Directors Paul Walsh 51 1 1 The Directors consider that the Board leads and controls the i Chris Weston was appointed to the Board in July 2009. ii Paul Walsh retired from the Board in May 2009.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which are available on Board meetings the Companys website.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution.
The Directors also have responsibilities and duties The Board recognises the importance of holding regular scheduled under other legislation and in particular the Companies Act 2006. meetings throughout the year as a key part of the governance To accommodate the final changes in respect of the Companies framework.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings also took place Act 2006, the Company is proposing further changes to the during the year when necessary.
During the year, the Board had Articles at the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM, which are eight scheduled meetings and six unscheduled supplementary further explained in the Notice of the AGM.
A committee of the Board was set up to consider the technical aspects of the acquisition of Venture Production plc and All listed companies are subject to the revised version of the the 20% investment in British Energy, which met on a total of five Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, which occasions during the year.
There was also one committee meeting came into effect for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 of the Board during the year which considered technical formalities June 2008.
No changes were required in the Boards governance in respect of the issuance of debt instruments and another structure or operations in order to comply with the revised Code.
committee meeting which considered the formal documentation in The Company complied fully with the provisions of the Code respect of pension scheme funding.
except for a period from July 2009, as explained on page 42.
The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities and The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its business issues for the Company over the short, medium and approval, which is also available for inspection on the Companys longer term.
As part of this process, the Board monitors the website.
In particular, the Board is responsible for: development of the Groups strategy and each year one Board meeting is devoted specifically to strategy.
Comprehensive papers changes in the capital structure of the Company: are presented to the Board which facilitates meaningful debate as development of strategy and major policies: to the performance and future direction of the Company.
the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary: All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant reviewing management performance: committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board interim dividend payments and recommendation of final and committee meetings during 2009 are set out in the table dividends: above.
Where a Director was not in attendance in 2009, this was due to other prior work commitments.
Directors who were unable approval of the annual operating plan, the financial statements to attend specific Board or committee meetings reviewed the and major acquisitions and disposals: relevant briefing papers and provided their comments to the the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including Chairman of the Board or committee, as appropriate.
health, safety and environmental matters: the Groups corporate governance and system of internal Board constitution and appointments control: and The Board is made up of an appropriate balance of Executive matters not in the ordinary course of business.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
This established division of The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director has provided responsibility is formalised in writing and has been approved by the assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their Board.
respective roles and can dedicate the necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors play a key governance role and bring an external view to the Boards deliberations through their range of knowledge, experience and insight from other 38 CE7088 CentricaAR p038-060 Governance.
indd 38 8 3 10 11:49:47 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information sectors.
As part of its annual review of corporate governance, The evaluation process followed up on the 2008 effectiveness the Board considered the independence of each Non-Executive review and the Board considered the progress made on the Director other than the Chairman against the criteria specified previously identified issues.
in the Code and determined that each remained independent.
The evaluation focused on the following key themes: board During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including the composition: board expertise and knowledge: strategic oversight Chairman, met independently of management on a regular basis.
and delegation of powers: efficiency and effectiveness: board A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during support: risk management and internal control governance: the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors to succession planning and improving board performance.
This process is described in the section on the The evaluation process was carried out using a comprehensive Nominations Committee on page 41.
On 26 February 2009, the questionnaire, which was considered and completed by each of Chairman announced a number of changes to the composition of the Directors and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Chris Weston was appointed to the Board on 1 July addition to this, the Senior Independent Director chaired a meeting 2009 as an Executive Director with responsibility for the of the independent Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Companys North American business.
Chris Weston will therefore Chairman to appraise the Chairmans individual performance.
seek reappointment to the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
Paul Walsh, who had served as a Non-Executive Director since March A consolidated report of the output from the evaluation exercise 2003, retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
was prepared for review and consideration by the Board.
A search for a suitable replacement for Paul Walsh is ongoing.
The evaluation report concluded that the Board and its committees In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board continue to operate effectively.
A small number of actions and considered and authorised each Directors reported actual and improvements were identified.
In particular, the Board identified the potential conflicts of interest during the year.
Each Director following enhancements, which will be incorporated into the future abstained from approval of their own reported conflicts.
The Board Board programme to ensure that the operation of the Board and will continue to monitor and review actual and potential conflicts of its committees continue to improve: interest on a regular basis.
greater focus on the competitive environment both in the UK and In accordance with the Code and the Articles, all Directors are in North America: subject to reappointment by shareholders at the first AGM greater awareness of potential political and regulatory following their appointment to the Board and thereafter are subject developments: to reappointment every third year.
Non-Executive Directors are greater visibility of corporate responsibility issues: and initially appointed for a three-year term and, subject to review and further post investment reviews.
reappointment by shareholders, can serve up to a maximum of three terms.
Upon the recommendation of the Nominations The Chief Executives performance is reviewed regularly by the Committee, Phil Bentley, Roger Carr, Nick Luff and Chris Weston Chairman and the Chief Executive reviews the performance of will be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
The Code states the other Executive Directors.
In addition, the Remuneration that any length of service beyond six years for a Non-Executive Committee assesses the performance of the Executive Directors Director should be subject to particularly rigorous review and in connection with its determination of senior management should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the remuneration levels as explained in the Remuneration Report on Board.
In view of this, and following the recommendation of the pages 45 to 59.
Nominations Committee, Helen Alexander, who joined the Board in January 2003, will again seek reappointment at the AGM and The Board and its committees will continue to review critically annually thereafter.
their procedures, effectiveness and development throughout the coming year.
Full details of Directors service contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages Board development 45 to 59.
Directors biographies including their Board committee All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive membership are set out on pages 36 and 37. induction briefing tailored to meet their individual needs.
Ongoing Directors indemnities and insurance development and training is provided to Directors at Board meetings and, where appropriate, committee meetings.
During the In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed year, Directors received regular updates and presentations on of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and the changes and developments to the business, and to the legislative General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Company also and regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
In particular, the Board was briefed on the following key issues during 2009: Board evaluation overview of the competitive landscape: The Board is aware of the importance of continually assessing its market rates for oil and gas prices: own performance in support of the leadership of the Group and health, safety and environmental developments and issues: conducts a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of customer perceptions: its committees and individual Directors annually.
The evaluation was prepared and carried out by the Chairman and the General tax strategy and governance: Counsel & Company Secretary in respect of the year ended corporate governance developments: and 31 December 2009. smart metering and associated developments.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 CE7088 CentricaAR p038-060 Governance.
indd 39 8 3 10 11:49:47 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the May 2009.
In accordance with the Code, Paul Rayner is identified General Counsel & Company Secretary.
They also have the option as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has to seek independent professional advice at the Companys determined that each member of the Committee is independent expense in respect of their duties.
and that the membership meets the requirements of the Code.
The key function of the Audit Committee is to review the Board committees effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal The Board has delegated authority to its committees to carry out control policies together with the procedures for the identification, certain tasks as defined in each committees respective terms of assessment and reporting of risks.
In accordance with its terms of reference.
The Board reviews each committees terms of reference reference, the Committee is authorised by the Board to: against best practice and approves revised terms on a regular basis.
The written terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial Nominations, Corporate Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure statements and any formal announcements relating to the Committees are available on the Companys website and hard Companys financial performance, including a review of the copies are available upon request.
significant financial reporting judgements contained within them: review the Companys internal financial controls, internal control All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the and risk management systems: Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Board considers that this membership structure provides a consistency of monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal membership within each of these principal committees and avoids audit function: undue reliance on particular members.
Minutes of committee establish and oversee the Companys relationship with meetings are made available to all Directors on a timely basis and the external auditors, including monitoring their independent the chairmen of each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and status: and Corporate Responsibility Committees provide updates to the establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud Board at the next Board meeting.
prevention arrangements within the Company.
A chart setting out the Companys Board and Executive During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
At each of Committee structure is set out below.
these meetings, the Committee met privately with the external auditors, and separately with the Head of Audit and Risk who is Details of each committee, including membership, are set out in the following committee reports.
The Committee received regular comprehensive reports from the Audit Committee Head of Audit and Risk, senior management and the external The members of the Audit Committee are Paul Rayner Chairman, auditors,  LLP.
The Committee also Helen Alexander, Mary Francis and Andrew Mackenzie.
Paul Walsh requested clear objectives, timescale and achievement milestones was also a member up until his retirement from the Board in against which performance could be clearly measured in respect of all ongoing issues.
Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Disclosure Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Group Financial Health, Safety Investment Management Risk Management and Environment Sub-Committee Committee Committee Committee 40 CE7088 CentricaAR p038-060 Governance.
indd 40 8 3 10 11:49:47 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Committee considered a number of key issues during the year The Committees membership is comprised of a majority of and in particular reviewed: independent Non-Executive Directors.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: considerations in respect of reporting during the difficult make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the economic conditions throughout the year: appointment of replacement or additional Directors: governance structures, in particular the links between the devise and consider succession planning arrangements Groups Audit Committee and Business Unit level governance for Directors and other senior executives: and bodies: regularly review the structure, size and composition of the information technology general controls: Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard succession planning and senior appointments within the Audit to any proposed changes.
and Risk functions: review of remediation plans and lessons learned from internal In making its appointment recommendations to the Board, the control issues identified in the businesses in the Netherlands and Committee reviews the overall balance of skills, knowledge and Texas: and experience on the Board against current and future requirements ongoing compliance with the Undertakings in respect of the Company and, as appropriate, draws up a list of required of Centrica Storage Limited and compliance reporting in general.
The Committee members also participated in a training session The Committee met on three occasions during the year and during the year facilitated by Deloitte regarding current internal and considered the proposed appointment of Chris Weston, Managing external audit matters.
Director, North America, who joined the Board in July 2009.
In addition to this appointment, the Committee considered:  LLP have been the external auditor of the Group since the demerger of Centrica in 1997.
Under its terms the reappointment of Directors retiring by rotation at the of reference, the Audit Committee makes recommendations 2009 AGM: through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the AGM, or Board and senior management succession planning and in at any time during the year, on the appointment, reappointment particular the ongoing search for a replacement in respect of and removal of the external auditor.
There are no contractual Paul Walsh: and obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
changes in Phil Bentleys responsibilities, as announced in Accordingly, following consideration, the Audit Committee has February 2009. recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint  LLP be proposed at the AGM and the Corporate Responsibility Committee Board has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
The members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee are The Board has approved policies that restrict the types of nonMary Francis Chairman, Phil Bentley, Sam Laidlaw, Andrew audit work that can be undertaken by the external auditors and Mackenzie, Catherine May and Chris Weston.
restrict the employment by the Group of former employees of the external auditors.
The award of non-audit work, within categories A report detailing the work carried out by the Corporate that the external auditors are permitted to carry out under the Responsibility Committee during the year is included within the Board-approved policies, is subject to pre-clearance by the Audit Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 21 to 26.
Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
The Groups Executive Committee policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancies and advisory projects is set out in note 13 to the Financial Statements The members of the Executive Committee are the Executive on page 97.
In addition, the Committee was provided with reports Directors and those key senior managers whose biographical of all non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors and, details are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Sam Laidlaw is Chairman on a regular basis, a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & of the Groups operations within the limits set out in the Groups Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting delegation of authority, which was reviewed and approved by Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external the Board during the year.
The Committee also has a schedule auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
The Committee has delegated certain tasks to the sub-committees Remuneration Committee below and receives regular updates from each one: A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work Group Risk Management Committee: carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, Group Financial Risk Management Committee: including an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee: and Code in setting Executive Directors remuneration, is included Investment Sub-Committee.
within the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59.
Nominations Committee The members of the Nominations Committee are Roger Carr Chairman, Helen Alexander, Mary Francis, Sam Laidlaw, Andrew Mackenzie and Paul Rayner.
Paul Walsh was also a member up until the time he retired from the Board in May 2009.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 CE7088 CentricaAR p038-060 Governance.
indd 41 8 3 10 11:49:48 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued of the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise nonDisclosure Committee executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
The members of the Disclosure Committee are Sam Laidlaw As previously reported, Paul Walsh retired as a Non-Executive Chairman, Nick Luff and Grant Dawson.
Director of Centrica in May 2009 and a search for a replacement is ongoing.
In July 2009, Chris Weston was appointed to the Board The Committee met on a number of occasions during the year as Managing Director, North America to further strengthen the and is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and structure and leadership required to maximise the opportunities for controls in respect of the management and disclosure of inside the North American business.
As a result of these changes, the information.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that membership of the Board did not meet provision A.
3.2 of the Code regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses for the latter half of 2009.
Whilst the Board recognises the and other documents issued by the Company comply with any membership of the Board is not in line with the Code, it believes applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
that it still has a robust governance structure and that no individual Relations with shareholders or small group of individuals dominate the Boards decision making.
A search for a replacement for Paul Walsh is ongoing and The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining an following that appointment, the composition of the Board is effective investor relations and communication programme.
The expected to be fully compliant with the Code.
Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the Group.
Risk management and internal control The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director held regular The Board regards the identification and assessment of risks, meetings with the Companys major shareholders during the year.
together with the mitigating internal controls, to be fundamental to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
It either directly or The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attended the through its committees, sets objectives, performance targets and meetings at which the annual and interim results were presented to policies for management of key risks facing the Group.
The Board major investors and analysts.
The Chairman also met a number of has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control major institutional shareholders during the year to gain a first-hand and risk management which is designed to manage rather than understanding of their concerns and key issues.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the material misstatement or loss.
opportunity to develop further their understanding of the Company and to ask questions of the full Board on the matters put to the Across the Group, each business has a Risk Management meeting, including the Annual Report.
All Directors are invited to Committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the attend each AGM.
At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief management of risks.
These assessments are reported to the Executive present a review of the Groups business.
A poll is Group Risk Management Committee to develop the Companys conducted on each resolution at all Company General Meetings.
overall risk profile including those risks that might affect the All shareholders also have the opportunity to cast their votes in Company at Group level.
Where significant risks have been respect of proposed resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by identified, a control infrastructure has been established to ensure post.
Following the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are day-to-day monitoring and management of risks.
The Centrica published and are available on the Companys website.
Executive Committee reviews the risks identified by the Group Risk Management Committee at its monthly meetings to assure itself Mary Francis, the Senior Independent Director, is available to that the significant risks facing the Group are being managed shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the appropriately.
Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject to normal channels has either failed to resolve or is deemed Undertakings given to the Secretary of State for Business inappropriate.
Innovation & Skills, operates separately but to the same standards Formal reports of investor feedback are presented to the Board of internal control and risk management as the rest of the Group.
The processes of newly-acquired companies are integrated with those of the Group.
Centricas website contains up-to-date information for shareholders and other interested parties including share price At each of its four meetings in 2009, the Audit Committee received information, news releases, speeches from the AGM, a Group Risk Report providing an assessment of the key risks presentations to the investment community and a section on facing the Company including the adequacy of the associated shareholder services.
The Companys Annual Report and Annual controls.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out Review and other shareholder circulars are also published on the on pages 29 to 34 of this report.
In addition, the Audit Committee website.
is provided with the results of reviews conducted by the internal audit function according to a plan approved by the Committee.
Compliance statement These reports, supplemented by management presentations, enable the Audit Committee to track a number of issues, monitor As the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is performance against objectives and ensure that necessary actions subject to the Code, which is available from the Financial Reporting are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses Council www.
The Chairman of the Audit Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company Committee reported the issues discussed and conclusions complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code reached at the following Board meeting.
with the exception of provision A.
3.2 which states that at least half 42 CE7088 CentricaAR p038-060 Governance.
indd 42 8 3 10 11:49:48 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Centrica Controls Board, whose members are the Group Directors responsibility statement Finance Director, Director of Financial Control, Head of Audit and The Directors, who are named on pages 36 and 37, are Risk and Business Unit Finance Directors, is responsible for responsible for preparing, in respect of each financial year, the ensuring appropriate internal controls are in place over financial Annual Report and Group Financial Statements.
They are also reporting processes and the related IT systems.
Its responsibilities responsible for ensuring that the Financial Statements give a true are discharged through the Centrica Controls Steering Group and fair view and that they have been properly prepared in CCSG which met five times during 2009. accordance with applicable law and International Financial The CCSG monitors the risks and associated controls over Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
financial reporting processes, including the consolidation process.
The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in The financial reporting controls are monitored and maintained accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and IFRS pursuant to through the use of internal control frameworks which address Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
The parent company Financial key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in Statements have been prepared in accordance with the the business or accounting standards.
Effectiveness is assessed Companies Act 2006 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted through quarterly self-certification and independent testing of Accounting Practice.
The Directors Report and the Remuneration the controls.
Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act The integrity of the Companys public financial reporting is further 2006 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
supported by a number of processes and steps to provide In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are assurance over the completeness and accuracy of the content, required to: including: select suitable accounting policies and then apply review by members of the Executive Team: them consistently: verification exercises: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and and prudent: review and approval by the Board.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been The Boards review of the system of followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and internal control explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern A process of hierarchical self-certification has been established basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal will continue in business.
controls and compliance with Group business principles and policies, are assessed.
In 2009 the self-certification process was The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above completed at half year and full year ends.
The results of the annual requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Directors process, together with the conclusions of the internal reviews by also confirm that the Directors Report contained within the Annual Internal Audit, inform the annual assessment performed by the Report includes a fair review of the development and performance Audit Committee.
of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting from 1 January 2009 to the date of this report, and is satisfied that records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board will financial position of the Company and the Group and enable continue routinely to challenge management in order to ensure that them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors the system of internal control is constantly improving.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Going concern and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
that the parent Company and the Group as a whole has adequate Disclosure of information to auditors resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details of of this Directors Report confirm that: so far as they are aware, the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys provided in note 4 of the Financial Statements on page 86. auditors are unaware: and they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Company has not entered into an auditor liability limitation agreement with its auditors during the year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 CE7088 CentricaAR p038-060 Governance.
