Governance Corporate governance The Board of the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, which it considers are critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors trust in the Company.
The Group expects all its directors and employees to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The Group will strive to act in accordance with the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of every country in which it does business.
In December 2008, Governance Metrics International, a global corporate performance and risk management of the Company.
All substantive agenda items have governance ratings agency, ranked the Company amongst the top UK companies, comprehensive briefing papers, which are circulated one week before the meeting.
with an overall global corporate governance rating of ten, the highest score assigned and achieved by only 1% of the 4,196 companies rated.
The following table shows the number of years directors have been on the Board at 31 March 2009 and their attendance at scheduled Board meetings they were eligible In the Companys profile report by Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
ISS, to attend during the 2009 financial year: dated 1 May 2009, the Companys governance practices outperformed 98.6% Years Meetings of the companies in the ISS developed universe excluding US, 98.2% of on Board attended companies in the telecommunications sector group and 98.1% of the companies Sir John Bond 4 9 9 in the UK.
John Buchanan 6 7 9 Vittorio Colao 2 9 9 Andy Halford 3 9 9 Compliance with the Combined Code Alan Jebson 2 9 9 Nick Land 2 8 9 The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the UK on the London Stock Exchange.
Anne Lauvergeon 3 8 9 In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company Simon Murray 2 8 9 confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2009 and at the date of this Luc Vandevelde 5 9 9 document, it was compliant with the provisions of, and applied the principles of, Anthony Watson 3 9 9 Section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Philip Yea 3 8 9 Code.
The following section, together with the Directors remuneration section Arun Sarin until 29 July 2008 3 3 on pages 57 to 67, provides details of how the Company applies the principles and Dr Michael Boskin until 29 July 2008 3 3 complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp until 29 July 2008 2 3 Board organisation and structure In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings to deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another The role of the Board engagement are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relevant The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and has the for such meetings and are able to discuss issues arising in the meeting with the powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to the relevant laws of Chairman or the Chief Executive.
England and Wales and the articles of association.
The Board: has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Division of responsibilities Group and its businesses: The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a division of is required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters independent responsibilities that is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board from executive management: to ensure that no one person has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman is is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business: and responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board, ensuring its is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on the Groups effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the system of corporate governance.
management of the Groups business and the implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision and these include: Board balance and independence The Companys Board consists of 14 directors, 11 of whom served throughout the Group strategy: 2009 financial year.
At 31 March 2009, in addition to the Chairman, Sir John Bond, major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: there were two executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
Samuel Jonah annual budget and operating plan: was appointed as an additional non-executive director with effect from 1 April 2009 Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: and Michel Combes and Steve Pusey as additional executive directors with effect from annual and half-year financial results and shareholder communications: 1 June 2009. system of internal control and risk management: and senior management structure, responsibilities and succession plans.
The Deputy Chairman, John Buchanan, is the nominated senior independent director and his role includes being available for approach or representation by directors or The schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed by the significant shareholders who may feel inhibited by raising issues with the Chairman.
Nominations and Governance Committee in March 2009, at which time it was He is also responsible for conducting an annual review of the performance of the determined that no amendments were required.
Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the nonexecutive directors.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to The Company considers all of its present non-executive directors to be fully the Board committees are given on pages 53 and 54. independent.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
Board meetings The Board meets at least eight times a year and the meetings are structured to allow There are no cross-directorships or significant links between directors serving on open discussion.
All directors participate in discussing the strategy, trading and financial the Board through involvement in other companies or bodies.
For the purpose of Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 51 Corporate governance continued section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of association responsibilities as a director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the include a general power for the directors to authorise any matter which would or knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of might otherwise constitute or give rise to a breach of the duty of a director under a listed company.
this section, to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
On appointment, individual directors undergo an induction programme covering, To this end, procedures have been established for the disclosure of any such amongst other things: conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board, where relevant.
The directors are required to complete a conflicts the business of the Group: questionnaire, initially on appointment and annually thereafter.
In the event of a their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors of the Company: potential conflict being identified, details of that conflict would be submitted to the briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and Board excluding the director to whom the potential conflict related for opportunities to visit business operations.
consideration and, as appropriate, authorisation in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the articles of association.
Where an authorisation was granted, it If appropriate, the induction will also include briefings on the scope of the internal would be recorded in a register of potential conflicts and reviewed periodically.
On audit function and the role of the Audit Committee, meetings with the external an ongoing basis, directors are responsible for notifying the Company Secretary if auditor and other areas the Company Secretary deems fit, considering the directors they become aware of actual or potential conflict situations or a change in area of responsibility.
The Company Secretary provides a programme of ongoing circumstances relating to an existing authorisation.
To date, no conflicts of interest training for the directors, which covers a number of sector specific and business have been identified.
issues, as well as legal, accounting and regulatory changes and developments relevant to individual directors areas of responsibility.
Throughout their period in The names and biographical details of the current directors are given on pages 48, office, the directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the 49 and 50.
Changes to the commitments of the directors are reported to the Board.
regulatory and industry specific environments in which it operates.
These updates are by way of written briefings and meetings with senior executives and, where Under the laws of England and Wales, the executive and non-executive directors are appropriate, external sources.
equal members of the Board and have overall collective responsibility for the direction of the Company.
In particular, non-executive directors are responsible for: The Company Secretary ensures that the programme to familiarise the nonexecutive directors with the business is maintained over time and kept relevant to the bringing a wide range of skills and experience to the Group, including independent needs of the individuals involved.
The Company Secretary confers with the Chairman judgement on issues of strategy, performance, financial controls and systems of and senior independent director to ensure that this is the case.
risk management: constructively challenging the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and Performance evaluation executive directors: Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors scrutinising and challenging performance across the Groups business: takes place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms of reference of assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and controls of the the Nominations and Governance Committee with the aim of improving Group: and individual contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the ensuring appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in Groups performance.
place in relation to executive directors and other senior executive roles.
The Board undertakes a formal self-evaluation of its own performance.
This process involves the Chairman: Board effectiveness Appointments to the Board sending a questionnaire to each Board member for completion: There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, which is based on merit and undertaking individual meetings with each Board member on Board against objective criteria, for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
This is performance: and described in the section on the Nominations and Governance Committee set out on producing a report on Board performance, using the completed questionnaire and page 53.
Samuel Jonah was identified as a potential candidate by internal sources notes from the individual meetings, which is sent to and considered by the and subsequently recommended to the Board by the Nominations and Governance Nominations and Governance Committee before being discussed with Board Committee on the basis of his wealth of business experience in Africa, particularly members at the following Board meeting.
South Africa and Ghana where Vodafone has made important investments recently.
Michel Combes and Steve Pusey were proposed for appointment to the Board The evaluation is designed to determine whether the Board continues to be capable following assessment of their performance and their potential contribution by the of providing the high level judgement required and whether, as a Board, the directors Nominations and Governance Committee and the whole Board subsequently are informed and up to date with the business and its goals and understand the discussed the proposal before their appointments were confirmed.
context within which it operates.
The evaluation also includes a review of the administration of the Board covering the operation of the Board, its agenda and the Information and professional development reports and information produced for the Boards consideration.
The Board will Each member of the Board has immediate access to a dedicated online team room continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the financial and can access monthly information including actual financial results, reports from year ahead.
the executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility and the Chief Executives report which deals, amongst other things, with investor relations, giving The Chairman leads the assessment of the Chief Executive and the non-executive Board members an opportunity to develop an understanding of the views of major directors, the Chief Executive undertakes the performance reviews for the executive investors.
These matters are discussed at each Board meeting.
From time to time, the directors and the senior independent director conducts the review of the performance Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters of of the Chairman by having a meeting with all the non-executive directors together and significance or on new opportunities for the Group.
Financial plans, including budgets individual meetings with the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
Following and forecasts, are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The non-executive directors this process, the senior independent director produces a written report which is periodically visit different parts of the Group and are provided with briefings and discussed with the Chairman.
information to assist them in performing their duties.
The evaluation of each of the Board committees is undertaken using an online The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training programmes are questionnaire that each member of the committees and others who attend provided and the Company Secretary organises the programmes.
Individual directors committee meetings or interact with committee members are required to complete.
are also expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs and to take The results of the questionnaires are discussed with the Chairman of the Board and steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the Company and their the members of the committees.
52 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Governance The evaluations undertaken in the 2009 financial year found the performance of director satisfying the independence requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities each director to be effective and concluded that the Board provides the effective Exchange Act 1934, as its financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details on leadership and control required for a listed company.
The Nominations and Nick Land can be found in Board of directors and Group management on page 48.
Governance Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in July 2009 continue to be The Audit Committees responsibilities include: effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
overseeing the relationship with the external auditors: reviewing the Companys preliminary results announcement, half-year results and Re-election of directors annual financial statements: Although not required by the articles, in the interests of good corporate governance, monitoring compliance with statutory and listing requirements for any exchange the directors have resolved that they will all submit themselves for annual re-election on which the Companys shares and debt instruments are quoted: at each AGM of the Company.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be held on 28 July 2009, reviewing the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group internal all the directors will be retiring and, being eligible and on the recommendation of audit department: the Nominations and Governance Committee, will offer themselves for re-election.
engaging independent advisers as it determines is necessary and to perform New directors seek election for the first time in accordance with the articles investigations: of association.
reporting to the Board on the quality and acceptability of the Companys accounting policies and practices including, without limitation, critical accounting Independent advice policies and practices: and The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the directors playing an active role in monitoring the Companys compliance efforts for feel it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial advice at the Companys Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and receiving progress updates at each of expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
Indemnification of directors At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets separately with the external auditors In accordance with the Companys articles of association and to the extent permitted and the Group Audit Director without management being present.
Further details on by the laws of England and Wales, directors are granted an indemnity from the the work of the Audit Committee and its oversight of the relationships with the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those external auditors can be found under Auditors and the Report from the Audit matters for which the directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Committee which are set out on pages 55 and 56. directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
This policy is in the process of being renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the Nominations and Governance Committee insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proven to have acted The members of the Nominations and Governance Committee during the year, dishonestly or fraudulently.
The Company does not indemnify its external auditors.
together with a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set out below: Board committees Meetings attended The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations and Governance Sir John Bond, Chairman 3 3 Committee and a Remuneration Committee, each of which has formal terms of John Buchanan 3 3 reference approved by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the terms of reference Luc Vandevelde 3 3 for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and Arun Sarin until 29 July 2008 1 1 are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
The terms of reference for Professor Jrgen Schrempp until 29 July 2008 1 1 all Board committees can be found on the Companys website at www.
com governance or a copy can be obtained by application to the Company Secretary The Nominations and Governance Committees key objective is to ensure that the at the Companys registered office.
Board comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nominations and The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to Governance Committee: undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary or his delegate acts as Secretary to the committees.
The minutes of committee meetings are leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board of circulated to all directors.
candidates for appointment as directors of the Company, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group: Each committee has access to such information and advice, both from within the makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nominations Group and externally, at the cost of the Company as it deems necessary.
This may and Governance Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit include the appointment of external consultants where appropriate.
Each committee and Remuneration Committees: undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of its terms of reference and makes regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the recommendations to the Board for changes where appropriate.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the nonexecutive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any Audit Committee change: and The members of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a record of is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
out below: The Nominations and Governance Committee meets periodically when required.
In Meetings attended addition to scheduled meetings there are a number of ad hoc meetings to address John Buchanan 3 4 specific matters.
No one other than a member of the Nominations and Governance Alan Jebson 4 4 Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
The Chief Executive, other nonNick Land, Chairman 4 4 executive directors and external advisers may be invited to attend.
Anne Lauvergeon 4 4 Dr Michael Boskin, Chairman until 29 July 2008 1 1 The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having the necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Solely for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Combined Code, the Board has designated Nick Land, who is an independent non-executive Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 53 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in the UK, the US and in The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together with a Continental Europe after the half-year results and preliminary announcement, to record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, ensure that the investor community receives a balanced and complete view of the are set out below: Groups performance and the issues faced by the Group: regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the Chief Executive Meetings attended and the Chief Financial Officer to discuss business performance: Luc Vandevelde, Chairman 5 5 hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management from Simon Murray 4 5 relevant operating companies deliver presentations which provide an overview of Anthony Watson 5 5 each of the individual businesses and operations: Philip Yea 4 5 attendance by senior executives across the business at relevant meetings and Professor Jrgen Schrempp until 29 July 2008 0 1 conferences throughout the year: responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through the Companys In addition to scheduled meetings, there are a number of ad hoc meetings to deal Investor Relations team: and with specific matters.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: a section dedicated to shareholders on the Companys website, www.
determining, on behalf of the Board, the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and the senior management team of Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with the Company: investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders on matters determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals, including any such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes himself compensation on termination of office: and available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
appointing any consultants in respect of executive directors remuneration.
The senior independent director and other members of the Board are also available The Chairman and Chief Executive may attend the Remuneration Committees to meet major investors on request.
The senior independent director has a specific meetings by invitation.
They do not attend when their individual remuneration is responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, for whom contact discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
Further information on the Remuneration Committees activities is contained in Directors remuneration on pages 57 to 67.
At the 2007 AGM, the shareholders approved amendments to the articles which enabled the Company to take advantage of the provisions in the Companies Act 2006 effective from 20 January 2007 to communicate with its shareholders electronically.
Following Executive Committee that approval, unless a shareholder has specifically asked to receive a hard copy, they The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads and will receive notification of the availability of the annual report on the Companys website regional chief executives, meet 12 times a year as the Executive Committee under at www.
For the 2009 financial year, shareholders will receive the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the notice of meeting and form of proxy in paper through the post unless they have the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, the overall financial previously opted to receive email communications.
Shareholders continue to have performance of the Group in fulfilment of strategy, plans and budgets and Group the option to appoint proxies and give voting instructions electronically.
It also reviews major acquisitions and disposals.
The members of the Executive Committee and their biographical details are set out on The principal communication with private investors is via the annual report and pages 48 to 50. through the AGM, an occasion which is attended by all the Companys directors and at which all shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman Strategy Board and the Board as well as the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations The Strategy Board meets three times each year to discuss strategy.
This is attended and Governance Committees.
After the AGM, shareholders can meet informally by Executive Committee members and the Chief Executive Officers of the major with directors.
operating companies and other selected individuals based on Strategy Board topics.
A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given at the AGM Company Secretary before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
The AGM is The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the committees of the broadcast live on the Groups website, www.
com agm, and a recording of Board and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate responsibility for the the webcast can subsequently be viewed on the website.
All substantive resolutions administration of the committees to other suitably qualified staff.
He: at the Companys AGMs are decided on a poll.
The poll is conducted by the Companys registrars and scrutinised by Electoral Reform Services.
The proxy votes cast in assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and timely access to all relation to all resolutions, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed to those relevant information: in attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are published on the is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and Companys website and announced via the regulatory news service.
Financial and advises the Board on corporate governance matters: and other information is made available on the Companys website, www.
com administers the procedure under which directors can, where appropriate, obtain investor, which is regularly updated.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Political donations The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
At last years AGM, held on 29 July 2008, the directors sought and received shareholders approval for the Company and its subsidiaries to be authorised, for the purposes of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, to make political donations and to Relations with shareholders incur political expenditure during the period from the date of the AGM to the The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities clearly to conclusion of the AGM in 2012 or 29 July 2012, whichever is earlier, up to a maximum its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue with investors through aggregate amount of 100,000 per year.
a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The investor relations programme includes: Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have made any political donations during the year.
formal presentations of full year and half-year results and interim management statements: 54 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Governance It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the expenditure as those expressions are normally understood.
However, the directors effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures and, based on that evaluation, consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders for the Company to participate have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the end in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect its business.
To avoid of the period covered by this document.
inadvertent infringement of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder authority has been sought as outlined above.
Auditors Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee and, in accordance with Internal control Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing the reappointment The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
A sound of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the shareholders at the system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 2009 AGM.
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process of managing In its assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance with the US the risks associated with social, environmental and ethical impacts is also discussed Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards standard on independence, the Audit under Corporate responsibility on pages 45 to 47.
Committee receives in writing details of relationships between Deloitte LLP and the Company that may have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Guidance that they are independent of the Company within the meaning of the securities laws Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code for the year administered by the SEC.
under review and to the date of approval of the annual report.
These procedures, which are subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review of both the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
See page 69 for level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, including those in the managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
telecommunications industry, and the level and nature of non-audit fees, as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
Monitoring and review activities In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised, policies There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting provide for the pre-approval by the Audit Committee of permitted non-audit services any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective by Deloitte LLP.
For certain specific permitted services, the Audit Committee has action.
These include: pre-approved that Deloitte LLP can be engaged by Group management subject to specified fee limits for individual engagements and fee limits for each type of specific a formal annual confirmation provided by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial service permitted.
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed the Officer of each Group company certifying the operation of their control systems specified fee limits, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, or in his absence another and highlighting any weaknesses, the results of which are reviewed by regional member, can pre-approve services which have not been pre-approved by the management, the Audit Committee and the Board: Audit Committee.
a review of the quality and timeliness of disclosures undertaken by the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer which includes formal annual meetings In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte LLP are also employed where, as a result with the operating company or regional chief executives and chief financial of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work officers and the Disclosure Committee: in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, periodic examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports on Group borrowings, regulatory filings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
controls throughout the Group undertaken by the Group internal audit Other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
department who report directly to the Audit Committee: and reports from the external auditors on certain internal controls and relevant During the year, Deloitte LLP and its affiliates charged the Group 8 million financial reporting matters, presented to the Audit Committee and management.
2008: 7 million, 2007: 7 million for audit and audit-related services and a further 1 million 2008: 2 million, 2007: 3 million for non-audit assignments.
An analysis Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can of these fees can be found in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.
Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered US listing requirements acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the NYSE and the Company in identifying the Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the is, therefore, subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws and the business of risks that do materialise and in ensuring that the costs of operating rules of the SEC.
The NYSE requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
with the NYSEs corporate governance rules but foreign private issuers, such as the Company, are exempt from most of those rules.
However, pursuant to NYSE Rule Review of effectiveness 303A.
11, the Company is required to disclose a summary of any significant ways in The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal which the corporate governance practices it follows differ from those required by the control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk NYSE for US companies.
The differences are as follows: management, in accordance with the Combined Code for the period from 1 April 2008 to 19 May 2009, the date of approval of the Groups annual report.
No significant Independence failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
However, had there been NYSE rules require that a majority of the Board must be comprised of independent any such failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that necessary actions would directors and the rules include detailed tests that US companies must use for have been taken to remedy them.
The Combined Code requires a companys board of directors to assess and make Disclosure controls and procedures a determination as to the independence of its directors.
The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure that information While the Board does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed tests, required to be disclosed in reports the Company files or submits under the Exchange it has carried out an assessment based on the requirements of the Combined Code Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods and has determined in its judgement that all of the non-executive directors are specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such independent within those requirements.
As at 19 May 2009, the Board comprised the information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chairman, two executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
Companys Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 55 Corporate governance continued Committees Corporate governance guidelines NYSE rules require US companies to have a nominating and corporate governance Under NYSE rules, US companies must adopt and disclose corporate committee and a compensation committee, each composed entirely of governance guidelines.
independent directors with a written charter that addresses the committees Vodafone has posted its statement of compliance with the Combined Code on its purpose and responsibilities.
The Company has also adopted a The Companys Nominations and Governance Committee and Remuneration group governance and policy manual which provides the first level of the Committee have terms of reference and composition that comply with the framework within which its businesses operate.
The manual applies to all directors Combined Code requirements.
The Nominations and Governance Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the The Company considers that its corporate governance guidelines are generally Board and its other members are non-executive directors of the Company.
responsive to, but may not address all aspects of, the relevant NYSE rules.
The Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors whom the Board has determined to be independent and who meet the requirements of Rule The Company has also adopted a corporate Code of Ethics for senior executives, 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act.
financial and accounting officers, separate from and additional to its Business Principles.
A copy of this code is available on the Groups website at www.
The Company considers that the terms of reference of these committees, which are com governance.
available on its website at www.
com governance, are generally responsive to the relevant NYSE rules but may not address all aspects of these rules.
Report from the Audit Committee frauds and any identified fraud that involved management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
The Audit Committee was also responsible The Audit Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in for oversight of the Groups compliance activities in relation to section 404 of relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and manages the Companys relationship with the external auditors.
Internal audit The Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the scope, extent and The composition of the Audit Committee is shown in the table on page 53 and effectiveness of the activity of the Group internal audit department and its terms of reference can be found on the Vodafone website www.
received reports from the Group Audit Director which included updates on com governance.
By invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the audit activities and achievement against the Group audit plan, the results of any Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas, and resource Director of Financial Reporting, the Group Audit Director and the external requirements of the internal audit department.
The Audit Committee held auditors also attend the Audit Committee meetings.
Also invited to attend private discussions with the Group Audit Director at each meeting.
certain meetings are relevant people from the business to present sessions on issues designed to enhance the Audit Committees awareness of key issues and External auditors developments in the business which are relevant to the Audit Committee in the The Audit Committee reviewed and monitored the independence of the performance of its role.
external auditors and the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process and provided the Board with its recommendation to the shareholders on the During the year ended 31 March 2009, the principal activities of the Audit reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditors.
The Audit Committee Committee were as follows: approved the scope and fees for audit and permitted non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP.
Financial reporting The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed with management and the Private meetings were held with Deloitte LLP to ensure that there were no external auditors the half-year and annual financial statements, focusing on, restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss matters without without limitation, the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and management being present.
practices, the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements.
To Audit Committee effectiveness aid their review, the Audit Committee considered reports from the Group The Audit Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness annually, Financial Controller and the Director of Financial Reporting and also reports giving consideration to, amongst other things, frequency, timings and adequacy from the external auditors, Deloitte LLP, on the scope and outcome of their of the meetings, composition, adequacy of resources and interaction with half-year review and annual audit.
management and concluded this year that the Audit Committees performance was effective and the Audit Committee had fulfilled its terms of reference.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control environment, its risk assessment process and the way in which significant business risks were managed.
It also considered the Group Audit Nick Land Directors reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant identified On behalf of the Audit Committee 56 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009
