Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation Corporate governance Committee  Board Audit Nominations Remuneration The Company monitors its compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Meetingsattended: Code most recently revised in June 2008 on a continuous basis.
Lars Emilson 9 9 n a 3 3 6 6 Michael Foster 9 9 n a 3 3 n a This report, in addition to the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to Robert Careless 9 9 n a n a n a 61 and the Audit Committee report on pages 53 and 54, describes how the Company has applied and complied with the principles, James Deeley 9 9 n a n a n a supporting principles and provisions contained in the Combined John Biles 9 9 4 4 3 3 6 6 Code, and in accordance with the Combined Codes comply or 1 The Hon.
James Bruce 1 3 0 1 1 3 1 2 explain principle, further explains where the Company has not Grey Denham 8 9 4 4 3 3 6 6 complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board is of the opinion that in respect of the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 John Neill 7 9 n a n a n a December 2009 the Company has been in compliance with the Andrew Osborne 8 9 4 4 3 3 6 6 provisions of the Combined Code with only one exception.
The 2 Manfred Wennemer 4 6 2 3 1 1 3 4 service contracts of Michael Foster and Robert Careless contain liquidated damages clauses, which are in contrast to requirement 1 The Hon.
James Bruce retired from the Board on 29 April 2009 B.
1.5 of the Combined Code for outgoing directors to mitigate their 2 Manfred Wennemer joined the Board on 26 March 2009 loss.
The Board feels that these arrangements are not excessive and serve to balance the interests of shareholders with the need to The powers and authorities retained by the Board include: ensure the retention of these individuals.
The policy has been revised with regard to the service contracts of new Executive Directors and the approval of annual and half year results, interim management hence the service contract of James Deeley contains no such statements and associated announcements: provision.
the membership, authority and terms of reference of Board 2Directors committees: a The Board The Board conducts itself in such a way as to provide leadership to corporate strategy: the Company and its subsidiaries and their respective employees.
It is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance significant financing arrangements: and to the delivery of enhanced shareholder value in a manner consistent with sound business practices and proper standards of matters relating to share capital including employee share the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report CR.
In providing schemes and share options : such leadership, the Board focuses on integrity and personal responsibility with the overriding objective of creating shareholder contracts or expenditures in excess of certain monetary value.
The Board operates in accordance with a Management and thresholds: Governance Framework the Framework.
This has been approved and adopted by the Board, and consolidates those adoption of annual budgets: and policies which govern the management and governance of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Framework contains details of: approval of appointments of Directors to the Board and the a the specific powers that the Board has retained b the authority appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
that has been delegated to the Board Committees and their terms of reference and c the role of the Board, the Chairman and the Subject to these retained powers and authorities, the day-to-day Chief Executive.
The Framework is kept under regular review and management of the Companys subsidiaries resides with the modified as and when new situations, requirements or boards of those subsidiaries.
Any concerns that the Non-Executive developments in best practice arise.
The Board ensures that the Directors may have regarding either the administration of the membership of its committees is refreshed so that undue reliance Company and its subsidiaries, or any proposed actions, are is not placed on individual Directors.
The Board meets regularly recorded in the minutes of the Company where an alternative and there are seven scheduled meetings for 2010. resolution cannot be found.
The Company has provided its Directors with appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal The Board hosts an annual strategy conference at which it proceedings and other claims against them.
considers and determines the strategic plans for the Companys businesses.
Details of attendance at meetings of the Board and its b Board committees Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are shown in i Standing Committee the following table.
Agendas and supporting papers are distributed Composition: Any two Directors of the Company.
to Directors in advance of each meeting so that the meeting can benefit from informed debate.
No individuals other than the Role: The Committee is responsible for taking necessary steps that Committee chairman and the members are entitled to be present are ancillary to and required in order to progress transactions that at meetings of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration have been approved in principle by the Board and which relate to Committees, although others including the Executive Directors, the the Company, to review and make recommendations to the Board Charter HR Director, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Taxation and in respect of the Policies and Procedures Manual and determine the external Auditors may attend at the prior invitation of the the remuneration and other terms and conditions of appointment relevant committee chairman.
of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 49 Corporate governance continued ii Nominations Committee c Chairman and Chief Executive Composition: Lars Emilson Chairman, Michael Foster, John Biles, Lars Emilson is Chairman and Michael Foster is Chief Executive of Grey Denham, Andrew Osborne and Manfred Wennemer, who the Company.
The Board believes that the two roles carry different joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on responsibilities and has approved a clear division of responsibilities 26 March 2009.
James Bruce retired from the between the Chairman and Chief Executive which is reflected in Committee on 29 April 2009.
All of the members of the the Framework.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for Committee, excluding Michael Foster, are considered independent leading the Board, for ensuring its effectiveness, and for ensuring Non-Executive Directors pursuant to the Combined Code and that good communications are maintained with shareholders, while accordingly a majority of the members are independent.
the Chief Executive has responsibility for running the Companys businesses.
Lars Emilson has no significant commitments that Role: The Committee is responsible for making recommendations require disclosure in relation to his Chairmanship.
The Chairman to the Board concerning appointments to the Board, including periodically meets with the Non-Executive Directors without the evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience required and other Executive Directors present as well as maintaining contact setting a job description for specific appointments.
In fulfilling its should they wish to raise any issues with him outside the formal role in respect of new appointments, the Committee generally setting of the Board meetings.
seeks advice and assistance from external search consultants to identify, benchmark and select appropriate candidates.
In July d Board balance and independence 2008 the Committee appointed an executive search consultant The Board currently comprises nine Directors, three of whom are to assist in sourcing a suitable candidate to recommend for Executive and six of whom are Non-Executive.
The Board believes appointment to the Board of Directors.
Having met the that this structure provides the correct balance of skills and Committees search criteria and having undergone a series of experience for the business and would allow for any changes to interviews with the Chairman and the Directors of the Company, the Boards composition to be managed without undue disruption, Manfred Wennemer was appointed a Non-Executive Director of whilst ensuring that the presence of six Non-Executive Directors the Company.
prevents a concentration of power and influence in a small number of individuals.
The Board has determined that, with the exception The Board of Charter International plc reviewed plans for orderly of John Neill who is no longer considered to be independent by management succession in relation to both Board and senior virtue of his combined length of service on the Boards of the management appointments at its annual strategy conference in Company and Charter plc and his relationship with the Unipart September 2009.
The Board believes that this provided the Group of Companies, all of the Non-Executive Directors including necessary reassurance that appropriate plans have been adopted the Chairman are regarded as independent.
The Board does not to ensure that the correct balance of skills and experience are consider that there exist any relationships or circumstances likely maintained on the Board and within the senior management of the to affect the judgement of any Non-Executive Director.
The Board Company and its subsidiaries.
greatly values the contribution and experience of John Neill and recommends his re-election at the forthcoming AGM as a iii Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director.
No Executive Director currently holds a Composition: Grey Denham Chairman, John Biles, Lars Emilson, non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Andrew Osborne and Manfred Wennemer, who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 26 March 2009. e Information and professional development The Hon.
James Bruce retired as Chairman and as a member of The Company Secretary, under the guidance of the Chairman, is the Committee on the 29 April 2009.
The members of the responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board Committee are considered independent Non-Executive Directors and its committees.
All Directors of the Company have access to pursuant to the Combined Code.
the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice on any matter relating to the Role and activities: An explanation of the role and activities of the Company at the Companys expense.
In advance of Board and Committee can be found in the remuneration report on pages 55 committee meetings, Directors and relevant committee members to 61. receive detailed papers on the matters to be considered, enabling them to request further clarification or additional information and to iv Disclosure Committee participate fully in discussions.
The Company Secretary is Composition: The Committee comprises the three Executive responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, Directors.
on all governance matters and best practice.
Role: The Committee is primarily responsible for the creation and The Company has a comprehensive induction process for all maintenance of appropriate procedures, systems and controls to Directors when they join the Board.
This includes a detailed ensure compliance by the Company with its obligations under the information pack, which combines publicly available information, Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and the Listing Rules of such as the Annual Report and product information, with confidential the Financial Services Authority.
In particular, it has responsibility for briefing notes on the Companys financing arrangements, corporate the determination, on a timely basis, of the disclosure treatment of structures, management accounts, advisers and other relevant material information and designing, implementing and evaluating information.
In addition briefing meetings are organised with key disclosure controls and procedures that operate within the members of the Board and senior management and visits are Company and its subsidiaries.
The Committee also has arranged to the Companys businesses.
responsibility for identifying inside information, for the purpose of maintaining the Companys insider lists as required by the DTR.
f Performance evaluation Evaluation of the Board and its principal committees is conducted v Audit Committee by gathering feedback from the relevant Board members.
This Details regarding the membership, role, responsibilities and work of feedback is gathered from two sources: a a confidential the Committee during the year under review can be found in the questionnaire eliciting both measurable data and free-format Audit Committee report on page 53. responses and b individual interviews.
The process is run by the Charter HR Director who collates the results and presents them to 50 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation the Chairman and the Board.
The individual interviews are between Although the Company is not required to prepare consolidated the Chairman and Board members who give their feedback on financial statements for the Group under the Jersey Companies Board performance against a structured agenda.
Board members Law, it is required to prepare them under the Listing Rules of the also give more general comment on the performance of the Board London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements for and its committees.
The Chairman is responsible for conducting the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial the Chief Executives performance review.
The Non-Executive Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
In doing so, they In preparing both the consolidated financial statements for the also take account of the views of the Executive Directors.
The Chief Group and the financial statements for the Company, the Directors Executive conducts individual evaluations of the Executive Directors were required to: as part of the Companys formal performance management process.
Performance is assessed against written objectives.
1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: The results of the 2009 questionnaire and the individual meetings were summarised in a paper submitted to the Board by the 2 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Charter HR Director on 3 December 2009.
This considered the prudent: areas that the Directors identified for improvement and set out the way in which they will be addressed.
In addition, careful attention 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been was given to those areas that recorded different ratings since the followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and similar exercise in 2008.
The Board was unanimous in its explained: and agreement with the assessment that the Board, its committees and individuals continued to be effective and that there had been 4 prepare those financial statements on the going concern basis, an overall improvement in effectiveness in 2009.
The Board valued unless they consider them to be inappropriate.
the continuity of approach and the total confidentiality of the questionnaire and agreed to repeat the process in 2010.
The Directors are responsible under the Jersey Companies Law for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which g Re-appointment are sufficient to show and explain its transactions and that are such Under Article 93 of the Articles of Association of the Company, at as to disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial every AGM any Director who has been appointed by the Board position of the Company and to enable the Directors to ensure since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two that the Companys financial statements comply with the Jersey preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who Companies Law.
The Directors are required to have the Companys has held office with the Company, other than employment or financial statements for each of the Companys financial periods executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at audited, and for this purpose, to provide the Auditors with a right of the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer access to the Companys records and to provide them with such himself for re-appointment by the members.
information and explanations as they think necessary for the performance of their duties as auditors.
Given that the Companys first AGM was held in April last year, all the Directors accordingly came up for election.
As a result, none of The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps the Directors are required to stand for re-election at the forthcoming to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and, AGM, apart from John Neill who is subject to annual re-election by in that context, to have proper regard to the establishment of virtue of his length of service.
appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are h Directors conflicts of interest responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The Company has procedures in place to deal with Directors Companys website.
conflicts of interest and these procedures have operated effectively.
The requirements of Jersey Companies Law and UK legislation  which govern the preparation and dissemination of financial a Financial reporting & Directors responsibilities statements may differ from the requirements of applicable The following paragraphs set out the responsibilities of the legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors in relation to the consolidated financial statements for the Group and the financial statements for the Company.
The reports The Directors consider that they have taken the actions necessary of the external Auditors, shown on page 62, set out their to meet their responsibilities as set out in the paragraphs above.
responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
Going concern Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Jersey Companies Law, the Directors are responsible for expectation that the Company and its subsidiaries have adequate preparing financial statements for the Company in respect of each resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of its financial periods.
The Companys financial statements are future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern required to show a true and fair view of, or be presented fairly in all basis in preparing both the consolidated financial statements for material respects, so as to show: i the profit or loss of the the Group and the financial statements for the Company.
Company for the financial period covered by such financial statements: and ii the state of affairs of the Company at the end of b Internal control such financial period.
The Companys financial statements for each The Board has overall responsibility for the maintenance of a of its financial periods are required to be prepared in accordance system of internal control.
The Audit Committee has been formally with the generally accepted accounting principles adopted by the delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Company and to specify such generally accepted accounting system of internal control.
The processes to manage the key risks principles.
The Companys financial statements are prepared in to the success of the Company and its businesses are reviewed accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles and improved as necessary.
There is an organisational structure UK GAAP.
with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 51 Corporate governance continued and there are also established policies and procedures for third party agents of two Howden subsidiaries to obtain business in monitoring each business.
While the operational control is largely an emerging market.
Howden is in the process of reinforcing its decentralised and responsibility is delegated, the businesses are existing ethics and compliance programme, to ensure these subject to the overall internal control framework.
This, by its nature, standards are maintained and this includes the use of third party can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against agents.
This work has been ongoing for the last year and is material misstatement or loss.
Detailed policies and procedures expected to take another 12 months to complete.
have been established by the Board dealing with numerous issues, including internal controls.
Examples of internal control procedures v Monitoring process are summarised on the following pages: There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal controls.
The significant components of these are: i Assessment of business risk the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of each A system of risk identification, assessment and evaluation of operating company are required to review internal controls and to controls is embedded within the Companys management return a self-certified internal control questionnaire confirming the processes.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes effectiveness of internal control systems: in the business environment are regularly reviewed by the senior management and formally discussed by the Board.
Risks relating each operating company deploys a variety of risk identification to key activities within the operating businesses and at the and assessment processes and develops mitigating actions.
Companys head office are assessed on a continuous basis and Major, high or medium risks are escalated and progress on reported to the Board as appropriate.
action plans is reviewed at least quarterly as part of management meetings.
The Board reviews every six months the major and ii Control environment high risks and monitors progress against action plans: Under the Framework described on page 49, the Board sets as part of its audit visits to operating companies, the internal overall policy and approves the core policies and procedures to be audit function evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls.
adopted by all of its subsidiaries.
A well-defined organisational The Audit Committee reviews the findings of the internal audit structure with clear operating procedures and lines of responsibility process: and delegated authority has been established.
There are procedures for appraisal, review and authorisation of matters the Audit Committee has specific responsibility for reviewing the of significance, including investments, capital expenditure, effectiveness of internal controls and monitors the process of borrowings, guarantees, indemnities and material contracts.
assessing the internal controls on behalf of the Board: and the Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are iii Information and communication identified and assessed by operating units, operational The Companys operating procedures include a comprehensive management and the Board.
system for reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board, including: The Board confirms it has carried out a review of the effectiveness the preparation and review of annual budgets and monthly of the system of internal controls described above for the financial results and forecasts: year ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date of this Report in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Revised a review of the businesses at each Board meeting, focusing on Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull any new risks arising for example, those relating to proposed Guidance.
The review encompassed operational, financial and major investments and key changes in the markets : and compliance controls as well as risk management.
meetings between various Executive Directors and operational management.
The system used included the following key elements: i as part of their ongoing reviews of the business, the Executive Directors and iv Control procedures Key Management reviewed the effectiveness of strategic, Detailed operational procedures are developed for each key operational and compliance internal controls and risk management.
business activity that embody key controls.
The implications of This involved considering reports on key risk areas concentrating changes in law and regulations are taken into account within these on significant changes in the risk profile and in the light of such procedures.
Procedures are established to safeguard the assets of reviews making appropriate amendments to policies and the Company and its subsidiaries and to ensure that all financial procedures to control risks: and ii the Board considered reports transactions are properly recorded.
Accounting policies and from the Audit Committee and the Executive Directors on these practices are widely disseminated throughout the Companys areas during the year and, at the time of approving the Annual subsidiaries and its affiliates.
Report, considered a summary of the assessments of the effectiveness of the controls on the key risks identified.
Continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and  whenever a weakness in the internal control system is identified The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue appropriate remedial action is taken.
with institutional shareholders through individual meetings.
Communications with private shareholders are conducted through The Company is committed to the highest ethical standards.
the Annual Report, Company announcements, presentations at The Company has an established code of business conduct that the AGM and the Companys website which, includes descriptions requires that all of its businesses and employees act with integrity of the Companys business operations.
The Board receives regular at all times and that there is strict compliance with applicable laws.
updates on all meetings and communications with major Employees are provided with a whistleblowing hotline allowing shareholders and major shareholders are offered the opportunity them to raise concerns anonymously.
These reports are monitored to meet with the Non-Executive Directors from time to time.
by the Audit Committee and are investigated as appropriate by the The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to Charter Head of Internal Audit independently of management.
shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be addressed Recently the Company completed investigations into possible through regular channels such as the Chairman, Chief Executive irregular payments that might have been made by two overseas or Finance Director.
52 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009
