Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation Audit Committee report Composition  The Committee comprises John Biles Chairman, Grey Denham, Meetings and attendance Andrew Osborne and Manfred Wennemer, who joined the The Committee met on four occasions in 2009.
Meetings of the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 26 March 2009.
Committee are timed to coincide with the financial and reporting The Hon.
James Bruce retired from the Committee on 29 April cycles of the Company.
Committee members attendance at the 2009.
The members of the Committee are considered meetings held during the year is set out in the table contained independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to the Combined in the corporate governance report on pages 49 to 52.
Their biographical details are set out on pages 42 to 43 and The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, senior their remuneration on pages 55 to 61.
The Company Secretary representatives of the external Auditors, the Head of Internal acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Board, as part of the Audit and senior financial executives from head office and the review of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, has operations attended meetings by invitation for appropriate satisfied itself that both John Biles and Andrew Osborne have business.
In addition, the members of the Committee met recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the separately with the external Auditors and the Head of Internal Audit Combined Code.
to discuss matters without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent RoleoftheCommittee meeting of the Board on the key issues covered by the Committee The Committee is a sub-committee of the Board, to whom it and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each reports its findings, and its primary role is to ensure the integrity of meeting.
During the year the Chairman of the Committee has had the financial reporting and audit processes, and the maintenance additional meetings with the Companys senior financial managers of a sound internal control and risk management system.
to review a range of financial matters, and has also met with the In pursuing these objectives, the Committee: external and internal Auditors prior to Committee meetings.
monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Financial reporting and any formal announcements relating to the Companys During 2009 the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial financial performance: reporting and related matters, including the interim and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the Board and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the adoption of the assessment of going concern and liquidity risk.
annual and half yearly financial reports and the approval of any other formal announcements relating to the Companys financial The Committee focused in particular on key accounting policies performance: and practices adopted by the Company and its subsidiaries and significant areas of judgement that impacted reported results reviews the Companys internal financial controls and internal including litigation and taxation matters.
In respect of the 2009 control and risk management systems: year-end review, the Committee has taken into account the key questions posed by the Financial Reporting Council in their paper monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal Challenges for Audit Committees arising from current economic audit function: conditions and satisfied itself that the Company has taken the appropriate actions and has adequate resources and systems in makes recommendations to the Board regarding the external place to deal with current trading conditions.
Auditors and their terms of appointment: External Auditors reviews and monitors the external Auditors independence and The Committee annually performs a review of the effectiveness of objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: the Companys external Auditors, and has recommended to the Board that  LLP, who have been the is responsible for developing and implementing a policy on the Companys auditors for a number of years, be re-appointed as the engagement of the external Auditors to supply non-audit external Auditors of the Company.
The Committee remains services: and satisfied as to the independence of the external Auditors following a review at its meeting on 3 December 2009 and has received makes recommendations to the Board in relation to written confirmation from the external Auditors to this effect.
The external Auditors are required to rotate the Group audit partner every five years and other key audit partners every seven years.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys access to the internal audit function and to the external Auditors: choice of external auditor.
In accordance with its remit, the and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
Both the Committee reviewed and adopted the external Auditors plans for Head of Internal Audit and the external Auditors have direct access the audit of the Companys 2009 financial statements.
In approving to the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee the terms of engagement for the audit, the Committee considered meetings.
The Committee has written terms of reference that the proposed audit fee and associated expenses.
outline its authority and responsibilities and the terms of reference are available for download at www.
These are considered annually by the Committee and any proposed changes are referred to the Board for approval.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 53 Audit Committee report continued The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation The review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit and the based primarily on guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered provision of some other appropriate services by the external Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committee reviewed the Auditors.
The Committee has reviewed those non-audit services reports from the internal audit function and the external Auditors on provided by the external Auditors throughout the year in the Companys systems of internal control and reported to the accordance with the Companys policy on the provision of other Board on the results of these reviews.
Further details of the services by the external Auditors.
This policy notes that such Companys system of internal control and its policies and services are likely to fall within the following types: procedures can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 49 to 52. financial statements and external reports: Whistleblowing acquisitions: The Companys whistleblowing policy was monitored by the Committee at its meetings throughout the year.
All issues raised disposals: through the Companys whistleblowing procedures during the year were considered and follow-up actions were taken as and when taxation: and required.
Most whistleblowing issues were subject to independent follow-up by internal audit, the exceptions mainly being human other services.
It identifies three categories of non-audit services: permitted On behalf of the Committee engagements that require no specific approval: permitted engagements requiring the approval of the Committee Chairman: JohnBiles and engagements that are not permitted.
The total fees paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee external Auditors were 3.8 million of which 3.2 million related to 23 March 2010 the statutory audits of the parent company, consolidated accounts, subsidiary undertakings and other assurance-related services.
The non-audit fees of 0.6 million represent 16 per cent of the total fees paid to the external Auditor.
Further details of the fees paid to the external Auditors of the Company can be found in note 4 to the financial statements on page 79.
Internal audit and monitoring of internal control issues The Committee has reviewed the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including the implementation of recommendations made by the function.
It also reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the coming year and the level of resources allocated to the internal audit function.
During 2009 internal audit also started tracking the status of work done throughout the Group in response to external Auditors management letter recommendations.
54 Charter International plc Annual Report 2009
