48 Corporate governance Statement on Corporate Governance This statement sets out how the Company has applied the main An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and and supporting principles of good governance set out in Section 1 its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in directors.
The Company Secretary also provides detailed 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
information on directors legal duties and responsibilities on Throughout the year ended 31 October 2009, the Company has appointment, and updates the Board on a regular basis with been in compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 regards to regulatory changes affecting the directors and the of the Combined Code, with the sole exception that the Board only Groups operations generally.
Directors are continually updated appointed a Senior Independent Director part way through the year on the Groups businesses and the matters affecting the market provision A.
The Company meets the cost of appropriate external training for directors, the requirement for which is kept The Board under review by the Chairman.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive the Finance Director and four non-executive directors.
The Board in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
considers that three of the current non-executive directors, The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, Chief Executive, and their respective job descriptions, are set out are independent in character and judgment, and meet the criteria in writing and agreed by the Board.
for independence set out in the Combined Code.
The directors biographical details are set out on page 34 and 35.
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for: ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on The Board, which meets at least ten times a year, approves the all decisions reserved to it: promoting constructive relations between Groups long-term goals and strategies and provides overall the executive and non-executive directors: ensuring that the financial and organisational control.
The Board has a formal development needs of directors are identified and the performance schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for consideration of the Board evaluated on a regular basis: and ensuring effective and approval, including: approval of the Groups corporate plan: communication with shareholders and acting as a conduit to ensure approval of the annual operating budgets: acquisitions, disposals that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board.
and major capital expenditure: financing and treasury: pensions: The Chairman has no significant business commitments other than ethical policies: health and safety strategy: reviewing the Groups his chairmanship of the Company.
systems of financial control and risk management: approving appointments to the Board and approving policies relating to The non-executive directors perform an essential role in directors remuneration: and maintaining an effective dialogue safeguarding shareholders interests.
They actively participate with shareholders.
All directors take decisions objectively in the in the development of strategic objectives and monitor the interests of the Company.
performance of executive management in achieving these objectives.
The non-executive directors also review financial The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive performance, and consider the integrity of the financial information Committee, including: implementation of the Groups strategies produced by the Group and whether the financial controls and and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring of operational risk management systems are robust and defensible.
They meet and financial results against budget: allocation of resources across periodically with the management of the Groups operating the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board: capital companies.
In addition to participating in Board meetings, the expenditure within limits imposed by the Board: and developing three independent non-executive directors are the members of the and implementing risk management systems.
Further details of standing committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration the Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report of executive directors and senior management.
The Board covering Board Committees.
considers that the current balance of executive and non-executive Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and influence which exists is appropriate for the Company, taking into timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to account its size and status.
ensure that directors have sufficient information to make expedient With the increase in size of the Group and its position in the FTSE 250, and considered decisions in fulfilment of their fiduciary duties.
the Board decided during the year that it was an appropriate time to Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the appoint a Senior Independent Director.
Mr Much assumed this role.
running of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
During the financial year, the Chairman met regularly with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
Each director has full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, Mr Evans, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal is responsible for maintaining good information flows within Sir Peter Norriss all have letters of appointment covering, amongst the Board and its committees, assisting with induction and other items, their terms of appointment and expected time keeping the directors informed about changes to their duties and commitment.
These letters of appointment provide for a three year responsibilities, and advising the Board on all governance matters.
appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a either party upon three months written notice.
The non-executive matter for the Board as a whole.
directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense, if the In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles need should arise.
of Association, all directors submit themselves for re-election every three years.
The Chairman offers himself for re-election annually, having passed the age of seventy and having served for more than nine years as a non-executive director.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 49 The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires include a statement from the Chairman confirming that the from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director requires at the Companys expense.
continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial An evaluation of the current performance of the Board and its statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
committees, and an assessment of the future requirements, was It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship undertaken during the year, as part of the succession planning for between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, the Chairmans retirement.
This encompassed a review, by all of the including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee directors, of the strengths and weaknesses of the current Board, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal from which a profile was drawn up for the successor to the current controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual Chairman.
The external search consultancy retained to recruit basis, considers the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit the Chairmans successor assisted in this process.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference Chairman and the non-executive directors considered the individual and its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes performance of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director as required as the result of such review.
part of the annual remuneration review.
Similarly, the performance During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of of the Chairman was considered by the non-executive directors reference, discharged its responsibilities by: during the annual review of his remuneration, and the Chairman reviewing the Groups draft 2008 financial statements and 2009 and the Chief Executive reviewed the performance of the interim results statement prior to Board approval, and reviewing non-executive directors.
No significant issues were identified.
the external auditors detailed reports thereon: The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies, in respect of legal action against its directors.
and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management Meetings attendance and the external auditors in the context of financial disclosures: The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served considering and approving changes to the Groups accounting during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the policy manual: Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee: reviewing the potential impact in the Groups financial Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset 12 meetings 3 meetings 0 meetings 6 meetings values and the adoption of new accounting standards: K C Scobie 12 12 - - 4 4 reviewing the external auditors plan for the 2009 interim review D R Evans 12 12 - - - and the 2009 year end audit, including reviewing the key risks on the accounts, confirmation of auditor independence and the The Rt Hon proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for Lord Freeman 12 12 3 3 - 6 6 the audit: I F R Much 12 12 3 3 - 6 6 receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the Air Marshal Sir Groups risk register: Peter Norriss 12 12 3 3 - 6 6 reviewing the Groups commission policy and arrangements D J Price 12 12 - - - with agents: P A Rayner 12 12 - - - reviewing changes to the corporate structure of the Group The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown and the associated tax implications: in brackets.
monitoring the Groups key financial ratios and credit ratings: Board committees The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination overseeing the application of the Groups whistleblowing policy Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on and procedures for employees: the Companys website and are available on request from the reviewing the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit Company Secretary.
function, assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource and recommending changes for increasing the scope of the Audit Committee internal audit activities: and The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served as members of the Audit Committee during the year.
implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, who is a chartered accountant, is services by the auditors, taking into account relevant guidance Chairman of the Committee: his full biographical details are set and best practice.
The Committee met three times during the year The Groups internal audit programme incorporates an annual and operates within formal written terms of reference.
As referred rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial and to above, the terms of reference are available on the Companys non-financial controls and procedures.
Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the invitation are subjected to a detailed review by the internal audit function of the Committee, by the external auditors, the Chairman, the immediately post-completion.
The Committee approves the annual Finance Director and representatives from the Group finance and internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the internal internal audit function.
The Committee meets with the auditors on a auditors.
The Groups internal audit function in the US will be regular basis without the executive directors present.
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 50 Corporate governance Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of Further details on the Committee, the Companys policy on directors the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no remuneration and long term incentive schemes are included within contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Executive Committee Committee reviewed: The Chief Executive, Dr Price, chairs the Executive Committee, which meets monthly.
The other members are the Finance Director, the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence and objectivity: the Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, the Group Director of Safety, and the three Divisional Managing the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any Directors.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive variations from the plan: day-to-day running of the Company, submission to the Board the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their of strategic plans and budgets for the Groups operations, and handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
the content of the external auditors reporting and internal control.
Relations with shareholders Following the above, the Committee has recommended to the Board The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional that Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
presentations following the release of interim and annual results.
Meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive The Committee keeps under review the level of any non-audit services and the Finance Director.
However, the non-executive directors which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure that this does are offered the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and not impair their independence and objectivity.
The Committee has attend meetings if so requested by major shareholders.
No such adopted a policy which states that the external auditors should not requests were received during the year.
Communication with be appointed to provide services in relation to corporate finance private investors is achieved largely through the medium of the matters, unless the Committee agrees that their appointment would interim report and the financial statements.
be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders in particular circumstances and would not create any direct conflict with their role The Companys website www.
co. uk provides financial as external auditors.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Finance and business information on the Group.
Director, ensures that the Group maintains a sufficient choice of The directors are provided with reports and other written briefings appropriately qualified audit firms.
Details of the amounts paid to the from the Companys principal shareholders and analysts, and are external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to out in the notes to the financial statements on page 65. significant shareholdings.
Nomination Committee It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend and make Mr Scobie, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served on themselves available to take questions from shareholders or address the Nomination Committee during the year.
Mr Scobie is Chairman any concerns at the Annual General Meeting.
At other times of the of the Committee but, in accordance with the Committees terms of year, the directors can be contacted via the Companys head office.
reference, is not permitted to chair meetings when the Committee All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
As referred to and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at above, the Committees terms of reference are available on the the Annual General Meeting.
The number of proxy votes received Companys website.
for and against each resolution, together with the number of With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors abstentions, are indicated after votes have been dealt with on a to the Board, the Committee considers the specific knowledge and show of hands, and are posted on the Companys website following expertise which would be of benefit to the Groups current operations the meeting.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent to and future strategy, and provides a brief to external search agents shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
The search agents put forward a short Financial reporting list of candidates for the Committee to interview before making its recommendations to the Board.
The Board interviews preferred The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and accounting records maintained by the candidates prior to making any formal offers of appointment.
Company is set out on page 38.
Following the year end, the Committee appointed an external search consultancy to recruit a successor for Mr Scobie when he retires.
Internal control and risk management A detailed brief for the new appointment, including an assessment The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups of the time commitment expected, has been prepared in consultation systems of internal control, including financial, operational and with all of the Board members, and the identification of potential compliance controls, and risk management systems.
Dr Price has been temporarily appointed The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems to the Committee to assist specifically with the recruitment of the of internal control and attaches considerable importance to these new Chairman.
systems, which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and identify those risks to which it is exposed.
However, the systems Remuneration Committee can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Groups assets.
all served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Mr Scobie stepped down from the Committee on 25 March 2009.
Mr Much is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 51 In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Groups The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of Groups systems of internal control and risk management which the Combined Code, the Board has taken into consideration the were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2009, and following key features of the Groups risk management systems it confirms that systems of internal control and risk management and control procedures which operated during the year: compliant with the Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance were in place throughout the year and have remained in place up to the The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement of the date of approval of these financial statements.
Notwithstanding Groups business objectives as part of the annual strategic planning this, the Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control process.
Out of this process, each business establishes a five year and risk management further into the operations of the Group and plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval by the to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention Board.
The performance of each business against budget and prior of management and the Board.
years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both operational level and by the Board.
Achievement of strategic business objectives and the Procedures to deal with directors associated risks are monitored by the Board on an ongoing basis.
conflicts of interest All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are attended All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the by the respective Divisional Managing Directors.
In addition, 2006 Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend operational have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may and strategic review meetings with each of the businesses on a conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Companys Articles quarterly basis.
In the case of the US businesses, formal Board of Association were amended during the year to incorporate meetings are held quarterly, and these are attended by main Board provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest in directors and external non-executive directors appointed in the US.
The Company has procedures in The US non-executive directors are available to provide guidance place to deal with situations where directors may have any such and monitor governance in the US businesses throughout the year.
conflicts, which require the Board to: External non-executive directors are also appointed to the Boards consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: of the Groups Italian and Australian subsidiaries.
consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their Each business is required to comply with the Groups duties under the 2006 Act: accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures for incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by commitments.
Compliance with the accounting policy manual directors and the scope of any approvals given: and is audited by the internal auditors, who report regularly to the regularly review conflict authorisation.
Audit Committee on their findings.
Going concern The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going and disposals, and financing arrangements for the Group.
They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into Treasury management, IT strategy, insurance and significant account factors, which are further detailed in the Review by the legal matters are dealt with centrally from the Group head Finance Director, such as: office, and the Board receives regular reports on each of these items.
Reviews of the Groups pensions, insurance and risk the strong order book of 559.0 million as at the year end: management arrangements are carried out by external advisors the Groups operating cash flow of 106.7 million during the year: on a regular basis.
the strong balance sheet at the year end of 273.6 million: and The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional Health and Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the the Groups available banking facilities, which amount to activities of each business in relation to health and safety and 106.9 million with maturities through to March 2012 see Note 21 environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in of the financial statements.
view of the nature of the Groups operations.
The Chief Executive The Groups banking covenants were all met with a comfortable is the Board member nominated with specific responsibility for margin during the year, and the expectation is that this will health and safety.
The Chief Executive meets formally with health continue.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
Company is well-placed to manage its risks.
Details of how the The Group has committed to adherence with the European Group manages its liquidity risk can be found in Note 24 of the Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry financial statements.
Standards on Anti-Corruption, and has reviewed and updated its The long term nature of the Groups business, taken together with business policies and procedures to ensure compliance.
the Groups forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of The Groups Risk Management Committee meets on a quarterly basis.
confidence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has the Business Development Director, the Group Director of Safety, adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the and the three Divisional Managing Directors serve on the Committee.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern The Committee reviews the key risks associated with the achievement basis in preparing the financial statements.
of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business, and Approved by the Board of Directors on 19 January 2010 the risk control procedures implemented.
It also considers the top Signed on behalf of the Board five health and safety risks which have been identified at each site and agrees the action plan to address these.
The Risk Management S L Ellard Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board Company Secretary on the top ten risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions being taken to mitigate these.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
