Corporate Governance The British Land Company PLC 57 which affect the Boards capacity for effectiveness in the longer term.
Corporate Governance The reviews recommendations focused on sustained efforts to determine, refine and adapt the strategic direction, to understand and respond to the external environment and to improve the collective Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice decision process through effective use of the Boards time.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006.
The annual appraisal process also includes the Senior Independent Chris Gibson-Smith performed the role of interim Executive Chairman Non-executive Director meeting to discuss the performance of the from 17 October 2008, following the resignation of Stephen Hester, Chairman with other directors annually, or more frequently as until 12 January 2009, when Chris Grigg was appointed necessary.
In addition, the Chairman meets with each non-executive Chief Executive.
Although the Combined Code recommends that director annually to discuss their contribution and the Chairman the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should not be provides the Remuneration Committee with a written appraisal of exercised by the same individual, the Board does not consider the Chief Executives performance for the year.
Similarly, the Chief that Chris Gibson-Smiths performance of both roles on Executive provides the Remuneration Committee with a written an interim basis constituted a breach of the Combined Code.
assessment of the executive directors performance.
Board effectiveness Committees of the Board The Board is responsible for the strategy, effective control The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and management of the Group.
There is a written division of Committees which operate within defined terms of reference, which responsibilities at the head of the Company between the Chairman are made available on the Companys website www.
com and Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
and their minutes are circulated to the Board.
The Audit and There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Remuneration Committees are entirely composed of independent Board approval, which includes approval of the annual and quarterly non-executive directors.
Robert Swannell is the Senior Independent accounts, the approval of authority levels below the Board and Non-executive Director.
material acquisitions, disposals and financing arrangements.
The Board delegates authority to the Approvals Committee of the Board, Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 March 2009 which consists of the executive directors of the Company, in respect where is shown, the director listed is not a member of the Committee of certain transactions within defined, limited parameters.
The Board Audit Remuneration Nomination has a regular schedule of meetings together with further meetings Name Board Committee Committee Committee as required by the ongoing business of the Company.
The executive Chris Gibson-Smith 9 1 directors and senior executives who comprise the Executive 1 Chris Grigg 4 Committee meet weekly, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal 2 Stephen Hester 3 with the ongoing management of the Group.
Clive Cowdery 8 4 Andrew Jones 9 The Chairman of the Board and individual directors meet regularly, 3 Sir David Michels 1 2 2 outside formal Board meetings, as part of each directors continuing Graham Roberts 9 contribution to delivery of the Companys strategy and superior Tim Roberts 9 returns for shareholders.
This process also allows for open two-way Kate Swann 9 6 discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and Robert Swannell 9 5 1 4 Aubrey Adams 7 2 individual directors, both executive and non-executive.
By this means 5 John Gildersleeve 7 3 the Chairman is continuously aware of the views of individual Lord Turnbull 9 4 6 1 directors and can act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to No.
of meetings during the year 9 5 6 1 Board effectiveness before they can become a risk to the Company.
1 Four Board meetings held since Board appointment on 12 January 2009 2 Four Board meetings held during Board membership to 15 November 2008, There is a strong and independent non-executive element on the date of cessation 3 the Board as shown by the details of directors on page 56.
Two Board meetings and two Audit Committee and two Remuneration Committee meetings held during Board membership to 11 July 2008, the date of cessation 4 Seven Board and two Audit Committee meetings held since Board appointment British Land Board performance evaluation on 1 September 2009 5 This year, Dr Long of Boardroom Review acted as an independent Seven Board and three Remuneration Committee meetings held since Board appointment on 1 September 2009 facilitator for the Board evaluation process.
This was designed to assess the quality of the Boards decision making and debate, its overall contribution and value to the long-term health and success of the Company, and its preparation for future challenges.
It included a confidential questionnaire, one-to-one interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary, Board and Committee meeting observation and a review of relevant papers.
Feedback from the review was provided in the form of a written report and presentation to the Board, which then discussed its findings.
The review concluded that the British Land Board rates very highly in its effectiveness and engagement with the Company.
Given the Boards desire for continuous improvement, there were a number of issues arising from the review 58 Corporate Governance The British Land Company PLC Nomination Committee Areas reviewed by the committee during the financial year included the: The Nomination Committees responsibilities include making recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments Groups key risks by priority and their mitigations: annual report on Internal Control prepared to support the Board and succession planning.
It consists of Chris Gibson-Smith, Lord Turnbull and Robert Swannell.
sign-off on the systems of internal control within the Group: valuation processes, particularly with regard to the effect of The Nomination Committee during the year has considered the current market conditions on the pricing of assets, and estimates for development properties.
This included valuer and internal appointment of the new Chief Executive and also succession planning, the structure, size and composition of the Board and its property analyst presentations to the Committee: monitoring of processes and procedures in place to ensure the committees, the recommendations to the Board of directors retiring by rotation for re-election by shareholders and the renewal of Board is able effectively to assess borrowing covenant compliance headroom and forecast sensitivity: non-executive directors letters of appointment.
Groups exposure to bank counterparties arising from syndicated and bilateral loan facilities, deposits and interest rate swap Remuneration policy and Committee Details of the Group remuneration policy and Committee are derivatives: tenant credit risk for top occupiers representing over 50% set out in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 71. of Group rental income: treasury processes including cash management, electronic Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets regularly during the year aligned to the payments and trades: occupational health and safety management: quarterly financial reporting timetable.
During the financial year it met on five occasions.
It has been chaired by Robert Swannell corporation tax: Songbird investment valuation: throughout the year and includes three other non-executive directors, Clive Cowdery, Lord Turnbull and Aubrey Adams appointed corporate and property insurance programme and renewal process: and 1 September 2008.
The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the documentation policy and summary of business documentation.
Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: Rotation of directors Under the Articles of Association of the Company, each director reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the Companys internal control and risk management systems: retires at the third Annual General Meeting AGM after the general meeting at which he was last elected.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: Non-executive directors making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approving the The Board considers that Aubrey Adams, Clive Cowdery, John Gildersleeve, Kate Swann, Robert Swannell and Lord Turnbull are remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence, independent non-executive directors.
In making this determination the Board has considered whether each director is independent in objectivity and effectiveness: reviewing and monitoring the valuation process: and character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could affect, the developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account directors judgement.
The Board believes that it is evident from consideration of the non-executive directors biographies detailed relevant ethical guidance.
on page 56 that they are of the integrity and stature to perform their roles of independent non-executive directors.
In particular the Board The Audit Committee has undertaken each of the above responsibilities during the year on which it has received and reviewed considers that Robert Swannell remains independent although he has served over nine years on the Board.
This was concluded after relevant reports from management, the valuers, the internal and the external auditors.
It has agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews considering his integrity and the effectiveness with which he carries out his responsibilities to the Company.
In addition, in a Board where of various of the Groups processes and controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the results of those reviews already completed.
many have joined the Company relatively recently, Mr Swannell provides a valuable continuity of knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Corporate Governance The British Land Company PLC 59 Internal Control In order to provide relevant and timely information to the directors and executives with responsibility for managing risks, the Group The directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound system of internal control.
The Board continues to apply the internal control has the following key information systems which generate reports as follows: provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code through a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and a management reporting system which includes regular working capital reports and forecasts: operational reporting on property managing the significant risks the Group faces.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval purchases, sales, rental income and portfolio management: and regular reporting to the Board on financial and treasury matters.
of this report, and the Group has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board is responsible Monitoring for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and has reviewed the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee has eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of several of the Groups processes and controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the misstatement or loss.
The Group applies two fundamental control principles: results of those reviews already completed.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee.
a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: and Investor Relations a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no material commitments are entered into without competent and proper The directors place considerable importance on maintaining open and clear communication with investors.
The Companys Investor authorisation by more than one approved executive.
Relations department is dedicated to facilitating communication with shareholders.
The Company has an ongoing programme of dialogue In compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of and meetings between the executive directors and its shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, internal control.
The key risks that the Group faces and features of the internal control system that operated throughout the period the market, management and governance are discussed within the constraints of the information already known to the market.
In covered by the accounts are described below: addition, the Company undertakes regular roadshows to the US, Europe and Japan and participates in sector conferences.
Identication and evaluation of commercial risks and related control objectives The directors consider it is important to understand the views of British Land has undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment, which has identified 10 principal risks that affect the Group.
The shareholders, and at each scheduled Board meeting the directors receive a written report of the major issues which have been raised responsibility for management of each key risk has been clearly identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors with management.
Meetings are also held between shareholders and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and other and senior executives within the Group.
The executive directors have close involvement with the day-to-day operational matters of the non-executive directors, and the Company facilitates such meetings on request.
In addition to the meetings of the Board frequent meetings of the executive directors take place to review the Groups activities.
During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of The Board and the executive directors consider the risk implications the progress of the Company through results statements and other announcements that are released through the London Stock of business decisions.
These include matters such as treasury policies and major transactions.
The control environment is Exchange and other news services.
Company announcements and presentations are made available simultaneously on our supported by the various committees of the Board including the Audit Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the website, affording all shareholders full access to material information.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly Derivatives Committee.
The way each risk is managed within the Group is considered at least annually by the executive directors and with the Company at any time through a facility on the website.
The Group re-assesses these risks on a regular basis to ensure that any risk arising from changes in the Groups operations or the external environment are identified and appropriately managed.
60 Corporate Governance The British Land Company PLC Additionally, there is an opportunity at the AGM for individual Statement of directors responsibilities shareholders to question the Chairman and the Chairmen of the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At the meeting, remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance the Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, including with applicable law and regulations.
votes withheld, the separation of resolutions, the attendance of committee chairmen and voting by poll.
The Annual Report and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Notice of Meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS prior to the AGM.
The voting results are announced to the London Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under IFRS as Stock Exchange and are available on the website and on request.
adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are In July 2008, all AGM resolutions were passed on a poll and were also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the approved by substantial majorities in excess of 96% in each case.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Going concern International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys affect its future development, performance and position are set out financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This in the Business Review on pages 12 to 40.
The financial position of requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and are described in the Business Review on pages 30 to 35.
In addition recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set on pages 33 and 34 the Groups financing policy is shown.
out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In The current economic conditions have created a number of virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by uncertainties with regard to future market valuation movements compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also which may affect the Groups ability to remain within the covenants required to: for its unsecured banking facilities, details of which are included on properly select and apply accounting policies: pages 34 and 35.
The Group has considerable undrawn debt facilities present information, including accounting policies, in a manner and cash deposits in excess of current drawn banking facilities.
It that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable also benefits from a diverse and secure income stream from leases information: and with long average lease terms.
As a consequence, the directors provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to satisfactorily despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial Accordingly, after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable performance.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Corporate Governance The British Land Company PLC 61 The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial Auditors and valuers statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted The Audit Committee meets with the auditors and valuers to discuss Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with them the scope and conclusions of their work.
The parent company financial statements are is specifically charged under its terms of reference with considering required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of matters relating to the audit appointment, the independence and the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors objectivity of the auditors, and reviewing the results and effectiveness are required to: of the audit.
With respect to other services provided by the auditors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the following framework is in place: consistently: audit related services the auditors are one of a number make judgements and estimates that are reasonable of firms providing audit related services, which include formal and prudent: reporting relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been and various other regulatory reports and work in respect of followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and acquisition and disposals.
Where they must carry out the work explained in the financial statements: and because of their office or are best placed to do so, the auditors prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis are selected.
In other circumstances the selection depends on unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will which firm is best suited: continue in business.
tax advisory the auditors are one of a number of firms that The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting provide tax advisory services.
The selection depends on who records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the is best suited in the circumstances: and financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure general consulting the auditors do not provide general that the parent company financial statements comply with the consultancy services except in rare circumstances, and then Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding only after consideration that they are best placed to provide the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps the service and that their independence and objectivity would for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is set out in note 5 on page 80. the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation The arrangements with auditors and valuers have been approved and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation by the Audit Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of in other jurisdictions.
changing requirements and best practice.
