Work of the committee During the year, the committee has carried Report of out the following: reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and considered the audit the appropriateness of the accounting policies used, assumptions adopted and estimates made: committee reviewed the groups published interim management statements: held meetings with the groups external valuers: reviewed the scope of the annual audit and the level of associated fees: considered the adequacy of the auditors statement of independence and monitored the operation of the groups policy regarding the use of the external auditors for non-audit work which helps to protect the auditors independence and Membership objectivity: The committee is chaired by Mr Neathercoat after due consideration of the conduct and was served throughout 2009 by of the audit and the matters raised in Messrs Corbyn, Farnes and Newell and the management letter, recommended Mrs fide Moller.
All members are considered the re-appointment of the groups independent by the company having no external auditors: day-to-day involvement with the company.
Mr Neathercoat is a member of the Institute liaised with the company over the of Chartered Accountants of England and appointment of a new audit partner: Wales and considered to have appropriate considered the need for an internal recent and relevant financial experience.
audit function: The committee has access to further financial expertise at the companys reviewed the groups conflict of expense, if required.
interest register: reviewed, commented upon and Roles and responsibilities approved the preparation of the groups The terms of reference for the committee risk register: and are available on the companys website.
reviewed an external report regarding Meetings the operation of the groups property The committee meets at least three management department.
times a year to discharge its responsibilities.
Meetings are attended by the groups external auditors and members of the S. J. Neathercoat groups senior management when invited.
Chairman of the audit committee During 2009, four meetings were held.
1 7th March 2010 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 63 Governance
