53 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2009 Annual review Governance Financials Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan Chairman, Phillip Rose and Martin Scicluna who replaced Richard Peskin following his retirement as Chairman on 16 March 2009.
It undertakes an annual review of succession planning for Senior Executives and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of the skills, continue to be appropriate.
In making recommendations to the Board of Non-Executive Directors, it specifically considers the expected time commitment of the proposed NonExecutive and other commitments they already have.
Agreement of the Chairman of the Company is also required before a Non-Executive Director may accept any additional commitments which could affect their time available to devote to the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms but are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least every three years.
Under the Articles of Association, a director will retire from office at the third annual general meeting following the annual general meeting at which he was appointed or last reappointed and all proposed reappointments to the Board are formally considered by the Nomination Committee.
At the beginning of 2008, in anticipation of Richard Peskin announcing his intention to retire from the Board in March 2009, the Nomination Committee met to consider the skill set required for the role of Chairman and appointed external recruitment consultants.
Following the announcement in May 2008 confirming the Chairmans intention to retire, an interview and selection process was undertaken and at the September 2008 Board meeting, the Nomination Committee recommended the appointment from 1 October 2008, of Martin Scicluna as Non-Executive Director to become Chairman from 16 March 2009.
Martin Scicluna, who was Chairman of Deloitte LLP from 1995 to 2007, head of Deloittes London Audit Division and formerly on the firms Executive Committee, has extensive experience serving boards and audit committees of FTSE 100 and 250 companies as Lead Partner and is a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The Nomination Committee believes that the Board will benefit from the appointment of Mr Scicluna as Non-Executive Chairman and is satisfied that his appointment does not affect the independence of Deloitte as the Groups auditors.
Following six years on the Board, including five years as Senior Independent Director, Kathleen ODonovan intends to retire at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
On Miss ODonovans retirement from the Board, Charles Irby will be appointed Senior Independent Director and will become a member of the Nomination Committee and Martin Scicluna will become Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The selection process, involving external recruitment consultants, for Miss ODonovans replacement as Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee, is at an advanced stage.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, which comprises Charles Irby Chairman, Jonathan Short and Kathleen ODonovan, has responsibility for determining the remuneration, bonuses, long-term incentive arrangements, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the Executive Directors, and the remuneration of the Chairman.
It also reviews the framework for the remuneration of all other employees and has access to professional advice outside the Company, as required.
Its role is described further in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 62.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan Chairman, Charles Irby, Phillip Rose and Jonathan Short.
Miss ODonovan is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc and Trinity Mirror plc and a member of the Audit Committee of Arm Holdings plc.
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors and meetings are also attended by certain Senior Executives, by invitation.
During the year, the Committee was responsible for reviewing, and reporting to the Board on, a range of matters including: the interim management statements, the half year and annual financial statements and significant reporting judgements and key assumptions therein: meetings with the Company auditors and property valuers: developments in accounting and reporting requirements: the review of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit: the external auditors management letter: the level of fees paid to the external auditors: the potential need for an internal audit function: and the Companys whistleblowing policy.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
As part of the review of the effectiveness of the auditors, a formal evaluation process incorporating feedback from the Audit Committee and relevant members of management is provided to the auditors.
The auditors are responsible for the annual audit and other services which the Audit Committee believe they are best placed to undertake due to their position as auditors.
During the year these included compliance reporting for transactions, debentures, bonus plans and the long-term incentive plans.
Deloitte LLP have confirmed to the Audit Committee that they remain independent and have maintained internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity.
