| Corporate governance Corporate governance This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors remuneration them and copies of their appointment letters are available on request to report set out on pages 42 to 49, describes how the Company has both the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
applied the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on Under the Articles, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders Corporate Governance amended in June 2008 the Code and complied at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board if they have held with the provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
The Code is office for three years or more since their previous appointment by available at frc.
shareholders and, in the case of Non-executive Directors, if they have held office for nine years or more since first being appointed by Statement of Compliance with the provisions of the shareholders.
The Board has set out in the papers accompanying a Combined Code resolution to elect a Non-executive Director why it believes an individual The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders when accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the proposing re-election that following formal performance evaluation, Company confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 the individuals performance continues to be effective and that the and at the date of this Annual Report, it was compliant with the individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Share Capital Details of the share capital of the Company are given on page 34 of the The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board Directors report.
meetings and leading the Board.
The Chief Executives responsibilities include operational performance, Corporate Social Responsibility Board composition and the development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
The Board comprises an independent Non-executive Chairman He focuses also on long term growth and development of the Group, David Turner, a Chief Executive Officer Andy Stevens, a Chief Financial its people and customer relationships.
The Boards policy is that the roles Officer Warren Tucker and five other Non-executive Directors of whom of Chairman and Chief Executive should be performed by different Marcus Beresford is the Senior Independent Director.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairmans role and Directors are considered to be independent.
that of the Chief Executive is documented and clearly understood.
38 Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision significant commitments, are set out on page 32 to 33 and, in relation of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and to those Directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM, in the Non-executive Directors.
He also provides another point of contact the accompanying shareholder circular.
The wide ranging experience for shareholders if they have concerns which communication through and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both Officer has failed to resolve, or where these contacts are inappropriate.
the development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Board committee The Directors have the benefit of a Directors and officers liability meetings as members of such committees during the year is set out insurance policy and the Company has entered into qualifying thirdin the following table.
party indemnity arrangements with them, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense within set limits in furtherance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination of their duties.
Number held 7 4 4 6 Number attended The Board and its proceedings A E Cook 7 3 Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, W G Tucker 7 take place seven times a year and otherwise as required.
There is contact A J Stevens 7 between meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
M W Hagee 7 2 4 6 Meetings were held at the head office in Wimborne, at the Companys P Hooley 7 4 4 6 London office and at operational locations in the UK and US.
In addition, M Beresford 7 4 3 6 the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the NonJ S Patterson 6 3 4 6 executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans M H Ronald 6 4 4 performance and his performance was evaluated as part of the board D J Turner 7 4 6 evaluation process referred to below.
In addition, the Chairman has Allan Cook retired on 31 December 2009 and retired from the nomination committee in August 2009. held meetings with the Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years which can be extended by agreement provided that the individuals The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of performance continues to be effective.
All Non-executives have strong, sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder confirmed they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of value.
In doing so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, ensures that www.
com | Corporate governance the necessary resources are in place, monitors management performance, occasions during the year and, in addition, as required to respond and supervises the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework to business needs and market conditions.
of prudent and effective internal controls.
During the year, the Board and senior management participated in a two day meeting devoted to the All Board committees are provided with sufficient resources to consideration and development of the Groups strategy.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific Nomination committee report approval.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions David Turner is the Chairman of this committee.
The other members which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated are Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford, John Patterson, Mark Ronald and either to committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on which Mike Hagee.
Allan Cook retired from the committee in August 2009 the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, and John Devaney joined the committee in February 2010.
All current its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, members of the committee are independent.
Details of their acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from qualifications and experience are set out on pages 32 to 33.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured basis the year the committee met on six occasions.
in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the Matters delegated in this way include, within defined parameters, year, are available on the Companys website or on application to the the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and to consider succession financing arrangements.
planning for Directors and other senior executives.
The committee dealt with these matters during the year and, in addition, made The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its recommendations regarding the re-appointment of certain Directors business, including the timely provision of information, and the at the 2009 AGM, and was engaged in searching, with the assistance of Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are observed external search consultants, for the new Chief Executive and Chairman.
and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, and can only be removed, by 39 The nomination committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge the Board.
and experience of the Board.
If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved this The significant commitments of the Chairman and other Non-executive would be recorded in the board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive Directors were disclosed to the Board before appointment and any Directors are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for changes are reported to the Board as they arise.
Changes during the year circulation to the Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were are noted in the personal biographies on pages 32 and 33. made during 2009.
Directors professional development All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are On appointment, Directors are allocated an executive sponsor who disclosed, noted and authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating assists the Director to undertake a structured induction programme in effectively to keep such disclosures up to date.
the course of which they receive information about the operations and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved Board committees for its decision, the Companys corporate governance practices and The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
procedures and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors Information relating to the nomination and audit committees appears of a listed public limited company.
This is supplemented by visits to key below and the activities of the remuneration committee are described locations and meetings with, and presentations by, senior executives.
in the Directors remuneration report on pages 42 to 49.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee Training for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by chairmen provide oral reports on the work undertaken by their means of external courses or in-house presentations.
In addition, committees at the following Board meeting.
Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through the provision of information by the Groups advisers and by Other Board committees include the executive directors committee.
means of regular briefings from the Company Secretary.
The Executive Directors are members of this committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The purpose is to assist the Chief Performance evaluation Executive in the performance of his duties and its terms of reference The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
include establishing and implementing internal policies, systems and During 2009, the Board engaged an external evaluator to undertake a controls to ensure that potential inside information is communicated thorough and objective evaluation.
The evaluation included interviews to it, considered, verified and released to the market where required, the with the Board and other members of the senior management team.
discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans, the The Board considered the recommendations made and has approved determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, an action plan to address these.
and the approval of banking facilities.
This committee met on eleven Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Financial reporting the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements, In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2009, is reviewed in accordance with the guidance for Directors on internal together with the interim management statements, the interim report control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
and other reports made during the year, present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The audit committee monitors the adequacy of internal financial controls and compliance with Group standards through a combination The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the of a self-assessment process involving all subsidiaries supplemented by Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial review on pages regular financial assurance reviews and visits.
The Board receives reports 22 to 27. on a regular basis from the executive and audit committees in relation to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and has, Internal control and risk management accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been control in respect of 2009.
The review covered all material controls, developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk opportunities to which it is exposed.
This includes a strategic planning management systems.
process involving the preparation of a five year plan, a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Audit committee Board, the regular revision of forecasts for the year, the monitoring of The Chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley.
He is an independent financial performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities to Director and the Board is satisfied, since he was a Finance Director of operational management.
Delegations and other operational controls a FTSE100 company until mid-2006, has been Chairman of the audit are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance committee for seven years and is a chartered accountant, that he has Manual.
Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
the preparation of the group financial statements, the system includes an annual and semi-annual representation letter from all business units.
The other members of the committee, all of whom are independent Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial Directors, are Marcus Beresford, Mike Hagee and John Patterson.
Details reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly of their experience are set out on pages 32 to 33.
During the year, the 40 stated in accordance with Group policies.
The audit committee has committee met on four occasions.
delegated to it the review and monitoring of the effectiveness of the internal controls including, but not limited to, financial controls and the The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the Groups risk management systems.
year, are available on the Companys website or on application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to monitor the Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
integrity of the Companys financial statements and any formal Divisional Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, announcements relating to its financial performance, to consider the including the maintenance of divisional risk registers, exist to identify effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems, to and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit The executive undertakes a top-level review of significant risks and the activities, to make recommendations as to the appointment, Chief Executive reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors, to monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity During the year, an executive risk committee was established to give and the effectiveness of the audit process and to review arrangements greater focus to the management of group wide risk.
by which the Groups employees may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties.
In relation to the latter, it is the committees The principal risks identified by the Board are highlighted on pages objective to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate 28 to 29. and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action to be taken.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, the aim of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment Meetings of the committee are normally attended by invitation for of the Groups business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding part by the Chief Financial Officer, senior employees with responsibilities of shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
It is also in relation to finance, accounting and internal control, and the external responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the auditors.
In addition, the committee holds meetings with the external system.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than auditors and the Head of Financial Assurance in the absence of eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only executive management.
Invitations to non-members are at the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material discretion of the committee.
At the majority of its meetings the committee considered reports The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, from the external auditors and the Head of Financial Assurance as well evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This as reports on risk management and internal controls.
Reports were also process, which has been in place for the year under review and up to considered on a number of matters including the pension scheme, www.
com | Corporate governance treasury and funding plans, taxation, disaster recovery planning and Presentations were given on the day of the announcement of the corporate governance issues.
The Group has an anti-bribery, antipreliminary and interim results.
Copies of the associated presentation corruption policy and arrangements for handling whistle-blowing and materials, together with webcasts, can also be accessed at the committee regularly receives and considers reports on calls made www.
The Board is kept informed of investors views through the receipt of The committee believes that the current arrangements comprising regular reports from the Companys brokers and updates from the Chief a rotational programme of internal financial control reviews, visits to Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Any significant correspondence subsidiaries by the financial assurance function, business reviews carried with shareholders is also made available.
out by the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer and a process of self-assessment of internal financial controls Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS announcements, by all subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage of the the Companys website, the annual and interim reports, the interim Groups activities.
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for management statements and the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all remedying them are developed and progress monitored.
Directors and shareholders have the opportunity to hear a statement as to progress made during the year, to question the Board on its The committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid stewardship of the Company and to meet Directors informally.
The the possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
results of the votes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM are These include the adoption by the committee of a policy regarding published on the Companys website.
the supply of audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit services involving the Responsibility statements review of interim financial information, tax services and accounting Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on advice, and acquisition-related divestment due diligence can be provided page 50 and those relating to the auditors are on pages 51 and 106. subject to pre-approval by the committee where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit.
The committee has received reports from the external auditors confirming their 41 independence and objectivity.
The external auditors operate, in relation to the senior engagement auditor, a rotation policy after five years and a new audit partner was appointed in early 2009.
The committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and has recommended that a resolution is proposed at the AGM to re-appoint the external auditors and to allow the Board to set their remuneration.
The committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent.
Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 31 December 2009 are set out in note 2 to the Group financial statements.
Shareholder relations The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group and therefore engages in regular dialogue with them.
During the year the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer held regular meetings with fund managers and other shareholders to discuss information made public by the Group.
In January 2009 and in October 2009, presentations for shareholders took place in London on businesses within the Cobham Defence Systems Division.
Both of these presentations have been made available for viewing as webcasts on the investor relations section of the Companys website at www.
A number of other opportunities were given to fund managers and others during the year to see Cobham products and to learn about them through access to and dialogue with operational management.
Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
