64 Corporate governance The Board is responsible for providing leadership for the Group.
It ensures that the right strategy and controls, together with appropriate financial and human resources, are in place in order to deliver value to shareholders and to the wider community.
It also sets standards for ethical behaviour and for monitoring environmental and health and safety performance.
Introduction Progress reporting a detailed monthly Board The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, The Directors consider that the Company has complied report was circulated to the Board and at each is responsible for advising the Board on governance fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the regular Board meeting the heads of business units matters and for ensuring good information flows Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code provided an update on progress within their areas within the Board.
All Directors have access to the as updated in June 2006 throughout the year ended of responsibility.
In addition, the half-yearly and advice and services of the Company Secretary, as 31 March 2009.
Further details of how Land Securities final results, together with a comparison of well as access to external advice, if required, at the complies with the Code can be found in this report and investment property performance to IPD indices expense of the Group the procedure for Directors in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys on a six-monthly basis, were reviewed in detail.
wishing to seek such external advice is published on website, www.
com which also contains Compliance and external relationships the Board the Groups website.
No such external advice was the terms of reference of the Audit, Nominations and reviewed Investor Relations, HR and Pensions, sought by any Director during the year.
Corporate Governance, Health and Safety with quarterly updates, Environmental performance, Information and professional development The role of the Board Board performance evaluation and Corporate The Board is supplied with information in a form and The Board formulates strategy and monitors the Responsibility matters.
quality to enable it to take informed decisions and to operating and financial performance of the Group.
All Directors are encouraged to It operates in accordance with a written schedule Board balance and independence make further enquiries as they consider appropriate of matters reserved to the Board, a copy of which is The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are split, of the Executive Directors or management.
Directors available on the Companys website.
This schedule is with clear written guidance to support the division of are provided with detailed briefings on the Groups backed by clearly defined written limits of delegated responsibility.
The Chairman is primarily responsible businesses, the markets in which they operate and authority across the Group.
for the effective working of the Board, ensuring that the overall economic and competitive environment.
all Directors are able to play a full part in its activities.
Other areas addressed include legal issues and Key matters reserved to the Board include: The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring effective responsibilities of Directors, the Groups governance authorisation of significant transactions in excess communication with shareholders and making sure arrangements and its Investor Relations programme.
of 150m that all Board members are aware of the views of In the case of newly appointed Directors, an dividend policy major investors.
induction programme, which includes training on internal controls and risk management via the Francis Salway, as Group Chief Executive, the responsibilities of a Director, occurred prior to Audit Committee is responsible for all aspects of the operation and or immediately following their appointment to the remuneration policy via the Remuneration management of the Group and its business.
His role Board, if that appointment was the first occasion Committee includes developing, for Board approval, an appropriate that they have been appointed to the Board of a listed shareholder circulars and listing particulars business strategy and ensuring that the agreed strategy company.
A tailored induction programme is provided matters relating to share capital such as share is implemented in a timely and effective manner.
for Non-executive Directors on appointment, buybacks There exists a strong Non-executive element co-ordinated by the Company Secretary in accordance treasury policy and significant fundraising on the Board which currently consists of the Chairman, with guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered appointment removal of Directors and four Executive Directors and five Non-executive Secretaries and Administrators.
David Rough is the Senior Independent Directors are encouraged to visit the Groups major Director.
The Board regards each of the five Nonproperties to enable them to gain a greater The Board uses an annual process timetable to ensure executive Directors as being independent and the understanding of the Groups activities.
In addition, that relevant matters are given due consideration.
Chairman was independent at the time of her one Board meeting each year is held at an off-site The Board held nine principal Board meetings appointment to that position.
The Board is satisfied location which incorporates a visit to one of the at which the following subjects were discussed: that no individual or group of Directors has unfettered Groups principal properties or developments.
Strategy the Board held its annual off-site meeting powers of discretion and that an appropriate balance The Board supports Executive Directors at which the Company strategy was reviewed in exists between the Executive and Non-executive taking up Non-executive Directorships as part of the context of the macroand micro-economic members of the Board, while not being so large as their continuing development which will ultimately environment, potential legislative changes, to be unwieldy.
As a matter of policy such competitor strategies and the need for the Company Details of the roles, backgrounds and other appointments are normally limited to one Nonto create and exploit competitive advantage.
commitments of the Directors are shown in the executive Directorship.
Business plans the Board reviewed at sixDirectors biographies on pages 52 and 53. monthly intervals the five-year forecasts, the The Chairman holds at least two meetings annual budget and business plan and the balanced a year with the Non-executive Directors without scorecard, all of which are designed to support Executive Directors being present.
Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Corporate governance 65 Board performance evaluation candidates.
As a result of this process Alison Carnwath The formal annual evaluation of the performance was appointed Chairman on 12 November 2008. of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors The Committee reviewed succession plans for was undertaken in early 2009.
This consisted of an Executive Directors and senior managers.
It also made internally run exercise led by the Chairman with the recommendations to the Board on the reappointment assistance of the Company Secretary, although the of Non-executive Directors at the conclusion of their Board will consider using external facilitation from specified terms of office, after first considering the time to time in the future.
The appraisal questionnaire effectiveness and commitment of those Nonwas wide-ranging and based on the process and executive Directors.
Where Non-executive Directors questions outlined in the Code, covering Board and are proposed for reappointment after having served Committee performance.
on the Board for more than six years, a particularly The appraisal output is used to highlight rigorous review is undertaken by the Committee.
strengths and weaknesses and revealed that the Board When considering candidates the Committee and its Committees were judged to be operating uses objective criteria and all appointments are made effectively.
It identified a number of opportunities on merit.
to develop Board processes in the future.
In addition, individual performance as Board Directors is appraised Remuneration Committee each year, based on one-to-one interviews with the While the Board is ultimately responsible for Directors Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, with the remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, which Senior Independent Director.
comprised solely of Non-executive Directors, determined the remuneration and conditions of Nominations Committee employment of the Executive Directors and senior The Nominations Committee, which, at 31 March employees.
The Committees activity is described 2009, comprised the Chairman, Sir Christopher Bland, in detail in the Directors remuneration report on Sir Stuart Rose, David Rough and Bo Lerenius, met pages 68 to 79. twice during the year under review to consider Board structure, size, composition and succession needs, Conflicts of interest keeping under review the balance of membership and A new statutory duty on Directors to avoid conflicts the required blend of skills, knowledge and experience of interest with the Company came into force in of the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association The Committee reviewed the time required were amended in July 2008 to allow the Directors to from Non-executive Directors and the annual authorise conflicts of interest.
The Board has adopted performance evaluation was used to assess whether a policy and effective procedures for managing and, Non-executive Directors were spending sufficient where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential time to fulfil their duties.
Under these procedures, Directors In addition, following the resignation of Paul are required to declare all directorships or other Myners as Chairman on 3 October 2008, two meetings appointments to companies which are not part of the of a specially constituted Nominations Committee Land Securities Group and which could give rise to took place to identify a successor to the position of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, as well as Chairman.
A firm of external search consultants was other situations which could give rise to a potential used to identify and help assess potential external conflict of interest.
candidates who were then benchmarked against internal Table 42 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The number of principal Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the financial year was as follows: Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings Paul Myners resigned 3 October 2008 4 4 1 1 1 1 Alison Carnwath 9 9 4 4 1 1 2 2 Francis Salway Chief Executive 9 9 Martin Greenslade 9 9 Ian Ellis resigned on 12 January 2009 6 6 Mike Hussey 8 9 Richard Akers 9 9 David Rough Senior Independent Director 9 9 5 5 2 2 Sir Stuart Rose 7 9 1 1 1 2 2 2 Bo Lerenius 9 9 5 5 2 2 2 2 Sir Christopher Bland 8 9 2 2 Kevin OByrne 8 9 4 4 Rick Haythornthwaite resigned on 5 February 2009 7 7 3 3 1 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Board Committee member Land Securities Annual Report 2009 66 Corporate governance Investor Relations The Committee met five times during the year.
Details of the amounts paid to PwC are set out in Land Securities has a comprehensive Investor Relations The Audit Committee Chairman invited other note 7 to the financial statements.
The level of programme which aims to provide existing and Group Board Directors to attend from time to time.
non-audit fees has risen over the last two years as a potential equity and bond investors with a means of In addition, the Director of Risk Management and consequence of the disposal of Trillium, the proposed developing their understanding of the Company and Internal Audit and representatives from the external demerger and the Rights Issue.
The Committee would raising any concerns or issues they may have.
Further auditors,  LLP PwC, were expect that the level of such fees will fall in 2009 10. detail on the Groups Investor Relations activity is also present at each meeting.
The Committee also The external auditors reported to the Committee provided in the Corporate responsibility section of met separately with the external and internal that they remained independent and had maintained this Report.
The Committee also holds a risk workshop internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity.
The Senior Independent Director normally on an annual basis, to which all Directors are invited, attends the final and half-yearly results meetings at which risks to the business, together with potential Valuers to which investors were invited and his attendance mitigations, are raised and reviewed.
The Committee had a policy in place to monitor the is notified to investors in advance.
The Senior The Committee undertook the following objectivity of the external valuers, Knight Frank.
The Independent Director was available to shareholders activities at these meetings: Group gives the valuers and external auditors access should they have had any concerns which could reviewed the half-yearly and final results and to each other.
These advisers have a dialogue and not be resolved through the normal channels of considered any matters raised by management exchange of information which is entirely independent communication with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
and the external auditors of the Group.
The Audit Committee Chairman attends No such concerns were raised by shareholders during reviewed and approved the audit plans for the key valuation meetings as do the external auditors the year ended 31 March 2009. external and internal auditors to be assured of the independence of the process.
In relation to private shareholders, we actively monitored the scope, effectiveness, independence In addition, Knight Frank presented to the Audit encourage feedback and communication, both on the and objectivity of the external audit Committee following completion of their 2008 09 Annual Report page 144, at the Annual General discussed the results of internal audit reviews, valuation process.
Meeting and through regular meetings with the significant findings, management action plans and In line with the Carsberg Committee report United Kingdom Shareholders Association UKSA.
the timeliness of resolution we have a fixed fee arrangement with our valuers, The Annual General Meeting provided all reviewed the Groups Turnbull Report to support Knight Frank LLP.
The proportion of total fees paid by shareholders with an opportunity to question the the Boards sign-off on the system of internal the Company to the total fee income of Knight Frank Company on matters put to the meeting including control see page 67 for more details LLP was less than 5%.
The Audit Committee regularly the Annual Report.
Shareholders attending the Annual reviewed reports on the Groups risk management reviews the total fees which the Company pays to General Meeting were given a detailed presentation by measures and actions Knight Frank as a proportion of the total fees paid to the Chief Executive on the activities and performance in conjunction with the Board appraisal detailed all its property advisers.
The Committee is satisfied of the Group over the preceding year.
From the 2007 on page 65, the Committee reviewed its own it represents only a small proportion of the total.
Annual General Meeting onwards, voting has been effectiveness and concluded that it had continued conducted by poll instead of by show of hands, since to operate as an effective Audit Committee.
Financial reporting the result is more democratic because all shares The Board seeks to present a balanced and represented at the meeting are voted and added to External auditors understandable assessment of the Groups position the proxy vote lodged in advance of the meeting.
The Audit Committee appraised the effectiveness of and prospects, and details are given in the Report of The results of proxy voting at general meetings were the external auditors and the external audit process.
published on the Companys website as required The evaluation process included feedback from by the Code.
relevant members of management and the results Going concern were reported to the Board and Audit Committee.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Audit Committee The Company had a policy and procedures in expectation that the Company has adequate resources At 31 March 2009, membership of the Audit place to monitor and maintain the objectivity and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Committee comprised Kevin OByrne Chairman independence of the external auditors, PwC.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going of the Committee, David Rough and Bo Lerenius.
policy requires prior approval by the Chairman of concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Kevin OByrne replaced David Rough as Chairman the Audit Committee of non-audit work above a of the Committee on 1 January 2009.
Although all fide minimis threshold level of 25,000.
On a six of the Committee members are considered to be monthly basis, the Audit Committee reviewed a appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, summary of all non-audit work.
In addition to the Kevin OByrne is considered as having significant, audit related services, PwC provided the following recent and relevant financial experience in line with services during the year: the Code.
Further details of each of the independent taxation advice, including planning and Directors are set out on pages 52 and 53.
The Audit compliance Committees written terms of reference are available advice on IFRS accounting on the Companys website.
Its principal oversight due diligence and related advice in relation to the responsibilities cover: proposed demerger internal control and risk management due diligence work in relation to the disposal internal audit of Trillium external audit including auditor independence work, as required by the Listing Rules, in relation financial reporting to the Rights Issue Land Securities Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors P0180 Financial statements P81130 Investor resource P131144 Corporate governance 67 Internal control Risk management process Chart 43 The Board is responsible for the Groups system of Six-monthly assessments: a compliance Risk management process internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
questionnaire is completed twice a year before Such a system is designed to manage rather than external reports are issued, which is signed off by 1.
Identify risks eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives senior managers, providing assurances that controls and can provide only reasonable and not absolute are both embedded and effective within the business 5.
2. assurance against material misstatement or loss.
a similar questionnaire is completed annually in Report risks and Assess and The Board confirms that this system is respect of joint ventures.
mitigation to Board quantify risks We contextualise risk in terms of our designed to be in accordance with the 2005 version Internal audit: responsible for reviewing and goals and objectives of the Turnbull guidance and has been in place for the testing key business processes and controls, including year under review and up to the date of approval of following up the implementation of management the Annual Report and financial statements.
actions and reporting any overdue actions to the 4.
The key features of our system of internal Audit Committee.
Re-assess risks Develop action plans post mitigation to mitigate risks control include: The Director of Internal Audit and Risk Strategic and business planning: the Group and Management reports to the Group Chief Executive and each business unit produce and agree a business has direct access to the Audit Committee Chairman.
plan each year, against which the performance The internal audit function operates a risk-based audit of the business is regularly monitored.
Balanced approach and provides a summary report on the scorecards are prepared that set out targets for operation of the system of risk management and internal a wide variety of key performance indicators, control to support the Boards annual statement.
including risk management and internal The Company has established a whistleblowing audit actions.
policy and hotline to enable employees to raise public Investment appraisal: capital projects, major interest issues on a confidential basis.
contracts and business and property acquisitions The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness are reviewed in detail and approved by the of internal audit activities including the scope of work, Investment Committee and or the Board where authority and resources of the internal audit function.
appropriate, in accordance with delegated The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has authority limits.
reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal Financial monitoring: profitability, cash flow and control and risk management.
The review covered capital expenditure are closely monitored and key all material areas of the business including financial, financial information is reported to the Board on a operational and compliance controls and risk monthly basis, including explanations of variances management and no significant failings in control between actual and budgeted performance.
In performing its review of effectiveness, Systems of control procedures and delegated the Audit Committee took into account the following authorities: there are clearly defined guidelines reports and activities: and approval limits for capital and operating Internal audit reports on reviews of business expenditure and other key business transactions processes and activities, including action plans and decisions.
Operational and financial procedures to address any identified control weaknesses.
and controls are maintained on the Groups intranet.
Managements own assessments of the Risk management: we have an ongoing process to strengths and weaknesses of the overall control identify, evaluate and manage the risks faced by environment in their area, with action plans to the Group.
The risk management process is set address the weaknesses.
We rate each risk in terms of External auditors report on any issues identified in probability of occurrence and potential impact the course of their work, including internal control on performance, and we identify mitigating reports on control weaknesses, which were actions, control effectiveness and management provided to the Audit Committee as well as responsibility.
Our approach is supported by an executive management.
This includes the Audit Risk management reporting, including the status Committee, which reviews on behalf of the Board of actions to mitigate major risks and the the effectiveness of our risk management process.
The Board confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified from that review.
