Governance conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics Any authorities given are reviewed at least every 15 months.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an considered and authorised each directors reported potential and actual understanding of the principles of, and developments in, financial conflicts of interest at its July 2009 Board meeting.
reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than policies, financing, internal control mechanisms, and matters that for a committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts and key that one-third of the directors retire by rotation each year and that figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
Members each director will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the committee undertake ongoing training as required.
Additionally, new directors may be appointed by the Board but are subject to election by shareholders at the first The committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda is opportunity after their appointment.
The Articles of Association limit linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member of the number of directors to not less than two and not more than the committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to 20 save where shareholders decide otherwise.
It is Board policy the regular items.
The committee met four times during the year and that non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial term members attendance at the meetings is set out in the table on page 49. of three years which is then reviewed and extended for a further three-year period.
It is also Board policy that non-executive directors The committee invites Sir Roy Gardner, the Group Chief Executive, should not generally serve on the Board for more than nine years.
the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Following their appointment, formal comprehensive and tailored Director of Internal Audit together with senior representatives of the induction is given to all non-executive directors, including visits to external auditors to attend each meeting although, from time to time, key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the it reserves time for discussions without invitees being present.
Other Executive Committee and other key senior executives.
The induction senior management are invited to present such reports as are required also covers a review of the Groups governance policies, structures for the committee to discharge its duties.
and business, including details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
With the exception of Don Robert, all of the The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Annual General directors being proposed for election or re-election at the Annual Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be General Meeting have been subject to a performance evaluation raised on the committees activities.
The remuneration of the during the year ended 30 September 2009 and the Board is content members of the committee is set out on page 54 and the policy with that each has continued to be effective and has demonstrated his regard to the remuneration of the non-executive directors is set out commitment to his respective role.
Although the non-executive directors are not formally required The committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities related to to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at external financial reporting and associated announcements.
During presentations of the annual and interim results is encouraged.
the year, the committee reviewed the interim and annual financial The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate statements: the interim and preliminary announcements made to the dialogue with shareholders.
Sir James Crosby is the Companys London Stock Exchange: significant accounting issues including the senior independent non-executive director.
The Board believes that consideration of any goodwill impairment assessments: operation of Sir James Crosby continues to have the appropriate experience, the whistle-blowing policy and the Groups internal audit function: knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
litigation and contingent liabilities and tax matters, including compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations.
The formal terms of reference for the main Board committees, approved by the Board and complying with the Code, to assist in The committee is also responsible for the development, implementation the discharge of its duties, are available from the General Counsel and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit.
The and Company Secretary and can also be found on the Companys committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the auditors website at www.
Membership of the various independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional and committees is shown on pages 47 to 49.
The General Counsel and regulatory requirements.
The committee recommends the appointment, Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
re-appointment and removal of the Companys external auditors, and considers the risks associated with their withdrawal from the market in Audit Committee its risk evaluation and planning.
The committee also reviews the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external At the date of this Report, the Audit Committee comprises Steve auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming Lucas Chairman, Tim Parker from 1 November 2008, Sir Ian year, together with the associated fee proposal and cost-effectiveness Robinson and Don Robert from 21 July 2009.
The committees of the audit: any major issues which arise during the course of the audit membership is reviewed by the Nomination Committee and as part of and their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level the annual Board performance evaluation.
Members of the committee of errors identified during the audit: the recommendations made to are appointed by the Board following recommendations by the management by the auditors and managements response: and the Nomination Committee.
The committee also ensures that key partners within the external auditors are rotated from time to time in Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience accordance with applicable UK rules.
The committee also monitors from senior executive levels.
The expertise and experience of the the extent of non-audit work which the external auditors can perform, members of the committee are summarised on page 42.
The Board to ensure that the provision of those non-audit services that can be considers that each member of the committee is independent within undertaken by the external auditors falls within the agreed policy and the definition set out in the Code.
Steve Lucas is considered by the does not impair their objectivity or independence.
In this respect Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience, the committee has agreed that, unless there is no other competent as he is currently Finance Director of National Grid plc.
and available provider, the external auditors should be excluded All members of the committee receive appropriate induction, which from providing the Company with general consultancy and all other is in addition to the induction which all new directors receive and non-audit and non-tax-related services.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 47
