Governance Corporate governance including the report of the Audit Committee Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external auditors investigation by the most appropriately placed person, who may, on undertake some due diligence reviews and provide assistance on occasion, for example, be the committee itself or a member of a local tax matters given their in-depth knowledge of the Groups business human resources team.
although assistance on tax matters is also obtained from other firms.
Each year the committee reviews critically its own performance and The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and considers where improvements can be made.
the agreed policy is assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the best-placed advisor is retained.
Nomination Committee Deloitte LLP were appointed as auditors to the Company on its The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis and at incorporation, and are re-appointed annually by shareholders.
During the date of this Report is comprised of Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, the year, the committee reviewed Deloitte LLPs fees, effectiveness Sir James Crosby, Richard Cousins, Susan Murray, Sir Ian Robinson and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons and Don Robert from 21 July 2009.
The committee reviews the for any variation from the plan.
The committee also considered structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees its robustness and the degree to which Deloitte LLP was able to and makes recommendations with regard to any changes that are assess key accounting and audit judgements and the content of considered necessary, both in the identification and nomination the management letter.
The committee concluded that the audit was of new directors and appointment of members to the Boards effective and that the relationship and effectiveness of the external committees, and the continuation of existing directors in office to auditor be kept under review.
Deloitte LLP also audits significant ensure that there is a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge subsidiaries of the Group.
The committee retains external search consultants as appropriate and did so with respect to the appointment of Don The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in the year ended 30 September Robert and reviews the leadership needs of the Group to enable it to 2009 were 4.9 million 2008: 5.3 million of which 1.5 million compete effectively in the marketplace.
The committee also advises 2008: 2.1 million related to non-audit work.
Further disclosure of the the Board on succession planning for executive board appointments non-audit fees paid during the year ended 30 September 2009 can be although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The found in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 74. committee met twice during the year and director attendance for such meetings is shown in the table on page 49.
The committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and its relationship with the external auditors, including Remuneration Committee internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as the degree to which the function is free of management restrictions.
At the date of this Report the Remuneration Committee comprises Throughout the year, the committee reviewed the internal audit Sir James Crosby Chairman, Steve Lucas, Tim Parker from functions plans and its achievements against plans.
The committee 1 November 2008 and Susan Murray from 21 July 2009, all of considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit whom are independent within the definition set out in the Code.
The function and considered the adequacy of managements response committee met four times during the year and director attendance to matters raised, including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
for each meeting is shown in the table on page 49.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations on remuneration to The committee also reviews, where practicable, all proposed the Board.
The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages announcements to be made by the Company to the extent that they 52 to 58. contain material financial information.
The committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual accounting policies and practices and compliance controls as well as General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might the Companys statements on internal control before they are agreed be raised on the committees activities.
by the Board for each years annual report.
The Board retains overall responsibility for internal control and the identification and General Business Committee management of business risk.
The General Business Committee comprises all the executive The Companys whistle-blowing or Speak Up policy which is an directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business extension of the Code of Ethics sets out arrangements for the within the clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject receipt, in confidence, of complaints on accounting, risk issues, to those matters reserved to the Board.
internal controls, auditing issues and related matters which would, as appropriate, be reported to the committee.
A copy of the Code Corporate Responsibility Committee of Ethics is available on the Companys website at www.
compassThe Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Susan Murray group.
The committee also receives regular updates on bribery Chairman from 1 November 2008, Sir Roy Gardner Chairman to and fraud trends and activity at least twice each year with individual 31 October 2008, Richard Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve Lucas, updates being given to the committee, as needed, in more serious Mark White and the Group Human Resources Director.
The cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
The Groups anticommittees primary responsibilities include: health, safety and fraud policies are a subset of the Code of Ethics which does not environment practices, business conduct, the promotion of employee tolerate any activity involving fraud, dishonesty or deception.
These engagement and diversity and community investment.
policies, for which the committee retains overall responsibility, will set out how allegations of fraud or bribery are dealt with, such as by the local human resources or finance team and the frequency of local Disclosure Committee reporting which feed into the regular updates which are presented The Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew Martin, Mark White, to the committee.
Reporting of these matters to the committee is the Group Financial Controller and the Director of Corporate Strategy, managed and overseen by internal audit.
The Speak Up policy Media and Investor Relations.
The committee meets as required operates when the complaint is received through the whistle-blowing to deal with all matters relating to public announcements of the channel and that policy will redirect the alleged fraud or bribery for Company and the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and DTR of the UK Listing Authority.
48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009
