Governance Corporate governance including the report of the Audit Committee also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action Combined Code compliance against its directors and officers.
The roles of Chairman and Group The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined with the division of governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys The Chairman has addressed the developmental needs of the Board shareholders for good governance and this Report, together with the as a whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness as a team Directors Remuneration report set out on pages 52 to 58, describes and assists in the development of individual skills, knowledge and how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance expertise.
During 2008, the Board conducted a detailed evaluation set out in the Code during the year under review.
It is the Boards of its own performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and view that the Company has been fully compliant.
Remuneration committees by means of a written questionnaire.
The evaluation focused on several areas, including Board structure, functionality, objectives, meetings and their content, administration, The Board risk management, access to management and governance.
The As at 30 September 2009 and as at the date of this Report, the results of the evaluation were considered and discussed by the Board of directors was made up of 10 members, comprising the Board and the results have been used to re-assess effectiveness Chairman, three executive directors and six non-executive directors.
One specific requirement which was identified in Tim Parker was re-appointed as a non-executive director on 2008 was the need to widen the non-executive experience on the 1 November 2008, following his retirement on 23 May 2008 and Don Board with an individual who had suitable international and strategic Robert was appointed as a non-executive director on 8 May 2009. experience.
This led to the appointment of Don Robert in May 2009.
Sven Kado retired from the Board on 5 February 2009.
The nonexecutive directors are considered by the Board to be independent Performance evaluations, including the skills brought to the Board of management and free of any relationship which could materially and the contributions each director made to it, were carried out for interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Executive directors performance has been assessed considers that each of the non-executive directors brings their own by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, mainly Executives performance was evaluated by the Chairman and the in international operations.
The senior independent non-executive director led the review of the Chairmans performance in consultation Biographical details of the directors currently in office are shown on with the executive and non-executive directors.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment directors performance was considered by the Chairman and by the and the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors Group Chief Executive, as well as by the Board as a whole, which is detailed in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 52 to 58. re-assessed the results of the questionnaires referred to above.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc Meetings between the non-executive directors, both with and without basis, as required by business need.
The Board manages the the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the business of the Company and may, subject to the Articles of Boards annual programme.
The Board has also arranged to hold Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, guarantee, Board meetings at Group business locations to help all Board indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property, assets members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also present and future and issue debentures and other securities and provides senior managers from across the Group the opportunity give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any debt, to present to the Board as well as to meet the directors on more liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, although its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review As part of their ongoing development, the executive directors the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
In addition, may seek an external non-executive role on a non-competitor the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all understood and met.
The Board may delegate any of its powers to appointments are subject to the Boards approval and the Board any committee consisting of one or more directors.
The Company monitors the extent of directors other interests to ensure that the has delegated day-to-day operational decisions to the Executive effectiveness of the Board is not compromised.
Committee referred to on page 49.
The Board met eight times during the year and director attendance for each meeting is shown A director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006 in the table on page 49.
The Board has established a procedure for to avoid a situation in which he has or can have a direct or indirect directors, if deemed necessary, to take independent professional interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This duty is in addition to the duty that a director This is in addition to the access that every director has to the General owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The CA 2006 Board procedures are followed and that good corporate governance allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and and compliance is implemented within the Group.
Together with potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a the Group Chief Executive and the General Counsel and Company provision to that effect.
The Companys Articles of Association Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly include provisions giving the directors authority to approve such informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest and other information are distributed at times to allow directors to to be dealt with.
The Board has a procedure when deciding whether be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
Firstly, only Companys Articles of Association, directors have been granted an independent directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision.
respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity Secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they would not provide any coverage to the extent that a director is consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
