28 Corporate governance The following sections explain how the Company applies the In accordance with the Articles of Association, directors appointed to main and supporting principles and the provisions of the the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting, those who Combined Code 2008 the Code.
The Board con rms that have not been subject to re-election at the previous two years annual throughout 2009 the Company has complied with the relevant general meetings and non-executive directors who have served more provisions of the Code save as where detailed below.
than nine years on the Board are all required to retire and to offer themselves for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
The Board The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer is set out in writing and has been agreed by All directors are collectively responsible for the overall success of the Board.
the Company and for the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Executive directors have direct responsibility for business The Chairman is responsible for: operations, whereas the non-executive directors have a the composition and leadership of the Board: responsibility to bring independent, objective judgement to bear on Board decisions.
This includes constructively challenging monitoring corporate governance processes: management and helping to develop the Companys strategy.
ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other The Board comprises nine directors a Chairman who throughout stakeholders: the year also acted as interim Chief Executive, three executive supporting the Chief Executive Of cer by acting as con dant, directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Details advisor and mentor as requested.
of the directors and their biographies are set out on pages 22 and 23.
The directors have a broad range of expertise and The Chief Executive Of cer is responsible for: experience, which we believe contributes signi cantly to the the development and execution of the Groups strategy and its effectiveness of the Board.
operational performance: Each of the non-executive directors has con rmed that they have leading the executive team: been throughout the year, and continue to be, independent of the management of the Group and free from any business or other leading the management of relationships with external relationship that could materially affect the exercise of their stakeholders: and independent judgement.
The Chairman was independent at the being accountable for the execution of strategy and the time of his appointment.
The other commitments of the Chairman and non-executive In the normal course of business the roles of Chairman and directors are set out in their biographies.
Chief Executive Of cer are performed by separate individuals in The Board believes, in principle, in the bene t of executive accordance with A.
However, following the directors and other senior employees accepting external departure of Robert Lerwill in November 2008, the Chairman, non-executive directorships in order to broaden their skills and John Napier, was appointed to the additional role of interim Chief knowledge for the bene t of the Company.
The Board has Executive as it was unanimously considered by the Board to be adopted a policy on external appointments which is designed the most appropriate short-term arrangement.
Jerry Buhlmann to ensure that employees remain able to discharge their currently Chief Executive Of cer of Aegis Media will be appointed responsibilities to the Group.
Directors and employees are usually as Chief Executive Of cer on 1 May 2010. permitted to retain any fees in respect of such appointments.
Directors must not vote in respect of any contract or other proposal Board meetings in which they or any person connected with them have a The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently material interest otherwise than by virtue of their interests in when business needs require.
During the year, the Board met ten securities of the Company.
The Articles of Association were times.
At least one Board meeting is extended in length to amended by shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting consider fully the ongoing development of the Companys strategic to address the new statutory provisions regarding directors duties plans.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and in relation to con icts of interest which came into force on all directors participate in discussing the strategy, trading and 1 October 2008 under the Companies Act and the Company financial performance and risk management of the Company.
has taken steps to ensure compliance with the new law on con icts of interest and has procedures in place to identify and There is a list of matters that have been reserved to the Board for deal with any con ict situations should they arise.
These include approval of: procedures have operated effectively throughout 2009.
They Group strategy, annual budget and operating plans: include procedures for the Board to authorise any con icts that may arise if necessary and a regular review of all such actual and results announcements: potential con icts.
dividend policy: To avoid potential con icts of interest, non-executive directors are circulars and listing particulars: required to inform the Chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
matters relating to share capital: Since August 2009 Charles Strauss has been the Senior major capital projects, investments and commitments.
Independent Non-Executive Director and he is responsible for All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the undertaking the annual review of the Chairmans performance and various business activities which the Group undertakes and chairing the Nomination Committee when considering the role of regularly receive information concerning the Groups operations, Chairman.
He is available to shareholders if they need to convey nances, key risks and its employees, enabling them to ful l their concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or Chief duties and obligations as directors.
Prior to May 2009, this role was undertaken by Bernard Fournier, who retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
29 The Board is supplied in advance of each meeting with an In the normal course of business an annual performance review agenda and supporting documentation.
At each Board meeting of the Board and its committees is undertaken in accordance with there are a number of standard agenda report items.
However, in the light of substantial changes advisors are also invited to attend meetings where relevant input is to the Boards composition made during the year, it was not needed.
The Board also receives brie ngs from the chairmen of considered appropriate to undertake the performance review of the Audit and Remuneration Committees following meetings of the Board and its committees during 2009.
It is expected that this those Committees.
process will be reintroduced in 2010, following the appointment of Jerry Buhlmann as Chief Executive Of cer.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at Board committees of which they were members during the year is set out below: Induction and training Audit Remuneration Nomination Directors undertake an induction programme when they join the Board Committee Committee Committee Board and receive a range of information about the Group.
The induction programme also includes meetings with other members No.
of meetings of the Board and various brie ngs and presentations regarding the in year 10 4 5 3 Groups operations from senior executives.
Ongoing training needs John Napier 10 4 3 for all directors are met as required.
John Brady appointed 01.08.09 5 2 3 Director liability Jerry Buhlmann 10 The Company has in place an appropriate level of directors and Simon Laf n of cers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the appointed 01.08.09 5 3 2 directors.
In addition, the Company has given an indemnity to its directors in respect of third party claims see the Directors report Alicja Lesniak on page 24. retired 01.10.09 7 All directors have access to the advice and services of the Nick Priday Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advice appointed 01.09.09 3 at the Companys expense.
If a director has particular concerns, Martin Read he or she may speci cally request that they be recorded in the appointed 01.08.09 4 3 2 Board minutes.
Charles Strauss 9 3 3 3 Board committees Lorraine Trainer 9 4 3 Terms of reference for all Board committees are regularly Adrian Chedore reviewed and are available on the Companys website at retired 31.12.09 9 www.
com and from the Company Secretary Daniel Farrar on request.
retired 22.05.09 3 1 Bernard Fournier Audit Committee retired 22.05.09 4 1 Simon Laf n is chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a chartered Brendan ONeill management accountant and the Board is satis ed that he has retired 01.10.09 7 2 appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to lead the Committee in its duties and deliberations.
Other members of the Leslie Van fide Walle Committee during 2009 were Bernard Fournier and Leslie Van fide retired 22.05.09 4 1 Walle until their retirement on 22 May 2009, Charles Strauss Notes: from 22 May 2009 and Martin Read from his appointment on In addition to the above, John Napier, Alicja Lesniak and Nick Priday regularly 1 August 2009.
Brendan ONeill served as chairman of the attended, by invitation, meetings of the Audit Committee and John Napier regularly Committee until his retirement from the Board on 1 October 2009. attended meetings of the Remuneration Committee before his appointment in his capacity as Chairman in March 2009.
Biographical details of the members of the Audit Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, are set out on From time to time the non-executive directors, including the pages 22 and 23.
Chairman, meet in the absence of the executive directors to consider matters of relevance to the running of the Board and the At the invitation of the Committees chairman, some meetings of operation of the Company.
the Committee were also attended, in whole or in part, by the Chief Financial Of cer, the external auditors and the interim Chief Executive as well as the Company Secretary and head of internal Performance appraisal process audit.
In addition, other members of senior management were The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent invited to attend as necessary to provide updates and background Director, continued the process of meeting annually without the information on matters considered by the Committee.
Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Committee regularly meets with the auditors without executive As a result of this the Senior Independent Director meets with the directors or management present.
Chairman to discuss any particular issues where it is felt that improvements could be made.
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and professional relationship with the Companys external auditors.
Additional information Financial statements Business review Aegis Group plc Governance 95 4094 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate governance 30 Corporate governance continued Work carried out by the Committee during 2009, in accordance Remuneration Committee with its responsibilities, included: The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Lorraine Trainer, who monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements was appointed on 1 August 2009, upon the retirement from the and reviewing signi cant reporting judgements: Committee as chairman of Charles Strauss.
John Napier acting in his capacity as Chairman was appointed as a member of the reviewing internal audit and risk management and controls, Committee in March 2009 and John Brady became a member and considering progress reports from the Risk Committee and on his appointment as a director in August 2009.
Both Lorraine head of internal audit: Trainer and John Brady are independent non-executive directors reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and and John Napier was considered to be independent on his procedures: appointment as Chairman in June 2008.
Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as reviewing the external auditors independence, objectiveness shareholders, in the Committees decisions John Napier receives and effectiveness: only a xed basic fee for his additional responsibilities as interim approving the external auditors terms of engagement, the Chief Executive and they have no con ict of interest arising from scope of the audit and the applicable levels of materiality: cross directorships.
Daniel Farrar also served as a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 22 May 2009. reviewing its own terms of reference: and Meetings of the Committee were also attended, in whole or in prior to the release of the preliminary announcement of the part, by the Group human resources director, the Company annual results, reviewing the years results and audit findings.
Secretary and a senior representative from Kepler Associates, In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the advisors to the Committee.
The Group Chief Executive Of cer is Committee focused in particular on: invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee, with advice from Kepler Associates, determined the any changes in accounting policies and practices: additional fee payable to John Napier on his taking on the major judgemental areas: additional interim Chief Executive role and John Napier was not party to such discussions.
John Napier did not attend those parts issues resulting from the external audit: of any meetings where matters of his remuneration were discussed.
the going concern assumption: These attendees are not present as of right and do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed.
compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code: and The Committee meets at least three times a year and more frequently if required.
Its main responsibilities are: compliance with stock exchange and legal requirements.
determining and recommending the policy and framework for Based on written reports submitted to it, the Committee reviewed the remuneration of the Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer, with the external auditors the findings of their audit work, and executive directors and other senior executive management: con rmed that all signi cant matters had been satisfactorily resolved.
within policy terms and in consultation with the Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer and external advisors as appropriate, The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations determining the total remuneration packages of the Chairman, to the Board in relation to the external auditors independence Chief Executive Of cer and other executive directors: and and implements policy on the engagement of the supply of non-audit services.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors overseeing the design and operation of the Groups share in respect of audit and non-audit services are given in Note 5 to based long-term incentive schemes, including approving the the financial statements.
The Committee has con rmed that the value and timing of awards and overseeing the operation of policy concerning rotation of audit partner complies with current performance conditions.
guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in During the year the principal business of Committee meetings England and Wales.
included the following: The current overall tenure of the external auditor dates from conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive 2004.
The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
directors and the Chief Executive Of cers recommendation for Any decision to open the external auditor to tender is taken his executive team based on review of actual performance and on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
There are no suitably robust benchmarking: contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of external auditor.
the consideration and approval of bonus payments for 2008: The Committee has considered the balance between fees for ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions for audit and non-audit work for the Group in the year and concluded vesting awards and approving new awards under the Groups that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees do not present a share option scheme and performance share plan: threat to the external auditors independence.
reviewing the Groups executive reward arrangements in the context of an economic downturn: determination of the termination arrangements for those members of the senior executive team who left the Group: drafting of the Remuneration report: reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee: and review of the Groups share schemes design.
31 The Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer of each Nomination Committee entity is required to complete an annual certi cate to con rm, in The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive relation to such entity, that: directors together with the Chief Executive Of cer and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets as and the accounts as submitted were accurate and complete and when required but at least once a year.
prepared in accordance with Group accounting policies: there were no actual or potential breaches of laws or The Committee is responsible for: regulations: reviewing the Board structure, size and composition: there were no known frauds: identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for there were no related party transactions other than those appointment or re-appointment as directors: properly disclosed: reviewing the renewal or otherwise of terms of appointment for non-executive directors, with any individual in question not there were no con icted directorships: and taking part in the discussion.
all relevant information was disclosed to the auditors.
During the year the principal business of Committee meetings Similar certi cations have been required of regional, global and included the following: Group management.
considering and recommending to the Board the appointments The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the adequacy of the of Nick Priday as Chief Financial Of cer: Groups internal controls system.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the head of internal audit on the integrity of the considering and recommending to the Board the appointments of John Brady, Simon Laf n and Martin Read as non-executive Groups control environment.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the control environment by exception directors.
The Committee used the services of an external search and recruitment consultancy in this process: and following their half year review and full year audit.
Copies of minutes of all Risk Committee meetings are also made available to determining the brief and role speci cation for the recruitment members of the Audit Committee.
of the Chief Executive Of cer and monitoring the selection process.
The Committee used the services of an external The Group requires operational management to complete an search and recruitment consultancy in this process.
annual risk self assessment questionnaire to con rm the adequacy of controls in place to mitigate identi ed risks and compliance with Group policies and practices.
The results of these questionnaires Internal control and risk management are provided to the Audit Committee.
The Group operates a system of internal control, which is The Board con rms that in 2009 it has reviewed the effectiveness maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined of the system of internal controls and considers that there are Code 2008, the revised Listing Rules, the Disclosure and ongoing processes in place for identifying, evaluating and Transparency Rules and the guidance contained in the Turnbull managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group and that these Report as revised.
processes have been in place during 2009 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Following its review, Internal control governance the Board con rms that, with the exception of the Posterscope USA matter described in the Financial review on page 13, where Responsibilities appropriate action has been taken to strengthen the control The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group environment in that unit, no signi cant weaknesses or fide ciencies were identi ed.
The Board considers that the information received adopts a suitable system of internal control and reviews this annually to ensure its effectiveness.
It delegates some of this was suf cient to monitor the process and review its effectiveness in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Controls.
responsibility to the Audit Committee.
In turn, the Audit Committee places reliance on reports it receives from the Group internal audit Internal audit function.
Day-to-day responsibility for embedding the Groups system of internal controls lies with the executive and senior The Groups internal audit function is considered independent to management teams, and the reporting and detailed consideration the operations and monitors the business units application of the of internal control matters are the responsibility of the Groups Risk Companys principles and policies and their overall control of risks.
The overall effectiveness of the internal audit function is monitored by the Audit Committee, which receives regular reports detailing Internal control framework the findings arising from the internal audit functions work.
The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage, but may not eliminate, the risk of the Group not achieving its overall Internal audit reports objectives.
The Groups internal control framework can only be expected to provide reasonable assurance that the Groups assets The Groups internal audit function is charged with assessing and reputation are safeguarded and are not subject to material whether controls expected to mitigate risks are being implemented loss or financial misstatement.
The Groups system incorporates and operating effectively.
Where any common gaps are identi ed controls designed to mitigate against strategic, financial, across a number of business units, a solution is agreed through commercial, operational, governance and other risks.
discussion at Risk Committee meetings and a risk champion is assigned to improve the required controls, as appropriate.
Given that the Group operates in a fast-moving environment with frequent new offerings to clients, particularly via acquisitions, risks are constantly evolving and additional controls required as a result.
To identify and manage these risks as quickly as possible, the internal audit functions remit is to visit newly acquired subsidiary companies within 12 months of their joining the Group.
Additional information Financial statements Business review Aegis Group plc Governance 95 4094 0121 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate governance 32 Corporate governance continued Risk Committees Relations with shareholders The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group The Board encourages an active policy of constructive dialogue has an effective framework in place for managing its risks.
The risk with its shareholders, which is led by the Chairman and Chief committee structure supports the Board in ful lling these Executive Of cer.
Executive directors meet regularly with major shareholders.
The The Group Head Of ce Risk Committee meets three to four times Board encourages investor contact, including holding one-to-one a year and in 2009 was attended by senior head of ce meetings and group events with existing shareholders and management.
During the year, overseas roadshows were held in North America, France, Spain, Belgium, Holland and Germany.
The Committee provides a forum for the discussion of key risks Non-executive directors are available to meet with institutional faced by the Group, the development of risk assessment shareholders on request.
techniques and the consideration and approval of risk management action plans.
It also ensures that effective risk JPMorgan Securities, the Groups stockbrokers provide the Board management policies and procedures are established for matters with written reports covering changes in valuation and ownership, which relate to the Group Head Of ces functional expertise, such market and sector issues on a monthly basis, and are available as tax, treasury and Group finance.
Recognising that day-to-day responsibility for the management of The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for shareholders to operational risks lies with the Chief Executive Of cer of each of address questions to the Chairman and the respective chairmen of the Groups two divisions, additional risk committee bodies have the Board committees or other members of the Board directly.
been established in Aegis Media and in Synovate.
Each Published information, including press releases, presentations and comprises a varied range of senior representatives from different webcasts of our results meetings, is available on the Groups markets, disciplines and business streams.
The principal duties of website, www.
these committees are to ensure that risks within the divisions are identi ed and appropriately managed and to approve minimum Further information about the Group can be obtained by standards and procedures to enhance the control environment.
The head of internal audit attends all meetings to ensure a cohesive approach to risk and the dissemination of good practice Emma Thomas amongst the three committees.
The risks identi ed, and the control Company Secretary mechanisms applicable to each risk and how well they are being 17 March 2010 managed, are maintained in a risk register.
A summary of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties is included in the Business review section on pages 18 and 19.
Risk self-assessments In recognition of the fact that Aegis Media and Synovate operate different business models, the risk-self assessment questionnaires referred to above are tailored to the operation of each division.
Each year, risks previously identi ed are reviewed to ensure they are up-to-date and relevant to each division and that they will help management to assess how well their operations are run.
The divisional risk committees provide input into the risks to be included in their separate risk self assessment surveys and assign risk champions as required for any risks not being appropriately managed.
Employee concerns The Group has arrangements in place that allows employees, in con dence, to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in matters of financial reporting or other matters, without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns are raised in good faith.
The Audit Committee reviews these arrangements to ensure that there is proportionate and independent investigation of any reported concerns and that appropriate follow up is taken and has recently instigated a review to ensure the effectiveness of the Groups worldwide Speak-Up policy.
There were no such material reports in 2009.
