CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Compliance statement The Board remains committed to the principles of good corporate governance and supports the best practice guidelines contained within the FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code as published in June 2008, which can be found on the FRCs website www.
This statement explains the Companys governance policies and practices and sets out how the principles of the Code have been applied for the year ended 31 December 2009 the year.
The Board confirms that, save as detailed below, the Company has complied with section one of the Code, throughout the financial year.
Board of Directors Composition At the year-end the Board consisted of Greg Lock Chairman : two Executive Directors, Mike Norris and Tony Conophy: and five Non-Executive Directors: Philip Hulme, Ian Lewis, Peter Ogden, John Ormerod and Cliff Preddy.
There were no changes to the Board during the year.
Cliff Preddy is due to retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and has confirmed he will not be standing for re-election.
The Nominations Committee have commenced a search for a new Non-Executive Director and further information can be found in the Nominations Committee section, below.
Details of the current Directors, including their membership of Committees, are set out below and their biographies, which include details of their other significant commitments, appear on page 28.
The Board consider that Greg Lock was independent on appointment and that Ian Lewis, John Ormerod and Cliff Preddy are also independent under the provisions of the Code.
Cliff Preddy is currently the Senior Independent Director.
Executive Directors 1 Non-Executive Directors 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors Chairman 3 2 On 23 March 2009, the Company moved from the FTSE SmallCap sector to the FTSE 250 and, until this date, the Company was compliant with provision A.
3.2, which states that a FTSE SmallCap Company must have at least two independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, under this provision a FTSE 250 company is subject to different requirements and at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, must consist of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company was not compliant with this provision and during the year, the Nominations Committee considered the size and structure of the Board, including the required skills and agreed that the present size and composition of the Board remained appropriate, for the requirements of the Company and its shareholders.
The Nominations Committee will consider the issue again in 2010.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Name PLC Board Independent Committee Committee Committee Greg Lock Chairman On appointment No Yes Chairman Mike Norris Executive No No No No Tony Conophy Executive No No No No Philip Hulme Non-Executive No No No No Ian Lewis Non-Executive Yes Yes Yes Yes Peter Ogden Non-Executive No No No No John Ormerod Non-Executive Yes Chairman Yes Yes Senior Independent Cliff Preddy Director Yes Yes Chairman Yes Stephen Benade Secretary Not Applicable Secretary Secretary Secretary Roles and responsibilities of the Board The Board has responsibility for the overall management and performance of the Group: it sets the Companys strategic aims, ensuring that sufficient resources are in place to meet these objectives.
The Board reviews the performance of senior management in order to ensure that they are meeting the agreed objectives.
The Directors set appropriate values and standards, ensuring that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met and that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
A framework of prudent and effective controls exists to ensure that risks are properly identified, assessed and managed.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and their responsibilities are clearly defined in writing, reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
In summary, the Chairmans role is to lead and manage the Board.
The Chairman facilitates the contribution of all Directors and is responsible for ensuring constructive relations between them.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups activities and execution of the strategy approved by the Board.
There is no individual or group of individuals who dominate the Boards decision making processes.
The Board believes that it oversees the Group effectively and is proactive in its approach.
There is a documented schedule of matters which is reserved for the Board and these matters include the approval of major capital expenditure and the agreement of strategies and budgets.
This schedule is reviewed annually and updated by the Board.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Corporate governance statement continued Board effectiveness Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme, tailored to their requirements.
Directors receive an induction pack which contains information on the Groups business, its structure and operations, the Board procedures, various corporate governance related matters and details of Directors duties and responsibilities.
As part of the induction programme, all new Directors meet with senior management and meetings are arranged with major shareholders.
All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance of each Board and Committee meeting, including detailed briefings on all matters where the Board is required to reach a decision, as well as regular reports on the performance of the Group.
Senior management frequently present to the Board on the results and strategies of their respective business units, thus ensuring the Board remain familiar with key elements of the business and the management of the Group.
The Board is subject to an annual performance review, which is led by the Chairman and covers the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its individual Directors and its Committees.
The performance review takes into account a wide range of factors, including strategic and operational matters, corporate governance, risk management and shareholder advocacy.
Each Director is required to complete a questionnaire, followed by one-to-one meetings with the Chairman.
The information from the questionnaires and interviews is compiled into a report and presented to the Board.
The performance of the Chairman is assessed by the NonExecutive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
All Directors provide feedback on the performance of the Chairman.
Board support The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for ensuring that all Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with and the Board is updated on regulatory and governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
A procedure is in place to enable Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
Board meetings The attendance of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during 2009 is detailed below.
The Board convenes at least eight scheduled meetings per year, as well as a full day strategy review, with at least one meeting each year at the location of an overseas business.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Director Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of scheduled meetings held 9 5 4 2 Executive Mike Norris, Chief Executive 9 n a n a n a Tony Conophy, Finance Director 9 n a n a n a Non-Executive Greg Lock, Chairman 9 n a 4 2 Philip Hulme 9 n a n a n a Ian Lewis 9 5 4 2 Peter Ogden 8 n a n a n a John Ormerod 9 5 4 2 Cliff Preddy, Senior Independent Director 9 5 4 2 Unscheduled Board meetings are required to conclude matters considered at a previous meeting, or to address an imperative issue, or to consider the contents of disclosures.
Three such meetings were convened during 2009 and Peter Ogden attended one such meeting, Philip Hulme was unable to attend any of the meetings and the remainder of the Board were present at all meetings.
It is inevitable that there will be occasions when circumstances arise to prevent Directors from attending meetings.
In such circumstances, the absent Director will review the Board papers and raise any considerations on specific issues with the Chairman.
In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors, individually and as a group, without the other Executive Directors being present, at least once a year.
Directors The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors and to the extent allowed by legislation, the Company has granted an indemnity to Directors against claims brought by third parties.
All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after appointment and are required to retire by rotation, at least every three years.
Those Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years are obliged to offer themselves for re-election annually.
One third of the Board is required to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
30 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board Committees The Board has delegated certain governance responsibilities to three principal Board Committees: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained from the Companys website www.
com investors or from the Company Secretary, by request.
The composition and main responsibilities of the Committees are detailed below: Audit Committee Throughout 2009, the Audit Committee consisted of three independent Non-Executive Directors: John Ormerod Chairman, Ian Lewis and Cliff Preddy.
During the year, the Committee met on five occasions and attendance at those meetings is set out in the table below: Attendance Audit Committee members Role record John Ormerod Chairman Non-Executive Director 5 5 Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 5 5 Cliff Preddy Senior Independent Director 5 5 The Chairman, Group Finance Director, Group Internal Audit Manager, Group Risk Manager, Group Financial Controller and the external auditor are routinely invited to, and attend, the majority of meetings.
Periodically, the Committee also meets privately with the external auditors and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
The Board believes that the members of the Committee have sufficient skills, qualifications and experience to enable the Committee to discharge its duties, in accordance with the Terms of Reference.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has relevant and recent financial experience.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee are reviewed annually to ensure that they are in line with current best practice.
The Committees key duties include, to: consider the reappointment of the external auditors, including the rotation of the audit partner, each year and also assess their independence.
As a safeguard to help avoid the objectivity and independence of the external auditors becoming compromised, the Committee has approved a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
This policy precludes them from providing certain services and permits other limited services which are subject to low fee thresholds or which require prior approval in accordance with a pre-agreed authority matrix: review the effectiveness of the external audit process.
This includes considering the scope and cost effectiveness of the audit and the procedures implemented to maintain the independence and objectivity of the auditors: review and receive reports from management and the auditors on the Groups annual and interim financial statements and to review any other published financial information.
This includes consideration of the Groups accounting policies and compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements: receive reports on the Groups systems of internal control and risk management, from the Groups management, the Group Risk Manager, internal audit and external auditors, and to review and report to the Board on their effectiveness: evaluate and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function: review the Companys business ethics policy and to ensure procedures are in place for an appropriate investigation, following any concerns or potential breaches that may be raised by staff: and evaluate the effectiveness of the Committee, including its performance and constitution.
Nominations Committee In compliance with the Code, the majority of the Committee is made up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee convened twice during 2009 and the members attendance at those meetings is set out below: Attendance Nominations Committee members Role record Greg Lock Chairman Chairman 2 2 Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 2 2 John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 2 2 Cliff Preddy Senior Independent Director 2 2 The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Boards composition, skills, knowledge and experience, and nominating candidates for both Executive and Non-Executive Directorships on the basis of merit and objective criteria.
It also ensures that the procedures for the appointment of new Directors are formal, rigorous and transparent and that there is an orderly succession for appointments to the Board and senior management.
Cliff Preddy is due to retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and has confirmed he will not be standing for re-election.
The Nominations Committee is leading the search for a new Non-Executive Director and the Committee has appointed an external agency, to identify candidates against set criteria, as prepared by the Nominations Committee.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 Corporate governance statement continued Board Committees continued Remuneration Committee In line with the Code, the majority of the members of this Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Generally the Chief Executive attends parts of the Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee convened on four occasions during the year and the attendance of the members is set out below: Attendance Remuneration Committee members Role record Cliff Preddy Chairman Senior Independent Director 4 4 Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 4 4 John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 4 4 Greg Lock Chairman 4 4 The Committee is responsible for the Groups policy on executive remuneration and decides on the specific packages of the Executive Directors and senior management.
Further information on the Remuneration Committee and its activities can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39.
Relations with shareholders The Board appreciates the importance of maintaining regular communication with its shareholders and the Group has an established programme of communication based on the Groups financial reporting calendar.
In addition to this programme, the Executive Directors have regular contact with institutional shareholders.
The Board receive regular reports on the meetings with, and other feedback from, the Companys major shareholders, in order to ensure that they have a comprehensive understanding of their views.
Cliff Preddy, as Senior Independent Director, is available to address any shareholder queries that are unable to be resolved through regular channels.
All of the Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may have.
In addition to mandatory information, a full and balanced explanation of the business of all general meetings is sent in advance to shareholders.
The Board welcomes the attendance of individual shareholders at general meetings and the opportunity to communicate directly with investors and to address their questions.
Resolutions at the Companys general meetings have been passed on a show of hands and proxies for and against each resolution together with any abstentions are announced at such meetings, noted in the minutes, available on the Companys website and notified to the market.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing the Groups systems of internal control, ensuring that these are prudent and robust and enabling risks to be appropriately assessed and managed.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to manage risks, safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure reliability of information used both within the business and for publication.
Systems are designed to govern, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Where material weaknesses have been identified, safeguards are implemented and monitored.
All systems of internal control are designed to continuously identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
The key elements of the Groups controls are as follows: Responsibilities and authority structure The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic decisions and there is a written schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Group Executive Committee meets on a regular basis to discuss the day-to-day operational matters.
Separate Executive Committees have been established for each of the Groups operations in the UK, France and Germany.
A flat reporting structure is maintained across the Group, with clearly defined responsibilities for operational and financial management.
Control environment The Group operates authorisation and approval processes throughout all of its operations.
Access controls exist where processes have been automated to ensure the security of data.
Management information systems have been developed to identify risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Accountability is reinforced and further scrutiny of costs and revenues encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer satisfaction and profitability.
Planning and reporting processes A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated annually and reviewed by the Board.
A comprehensive budgetary process is completed annually and is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance is monitored through a rigorous and detailed financial and management reporting system, by which monthly results are compared to budgets, the previous year and the agreed targets.
The results and explanations for variances are regularly and routinely reported to the Board.
Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
32 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Internal controls continued Management and specialists within the Finance Department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
Risk management Specialists within the Risk and Insurance Department monitor developments and oversee compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements, including consideration of the Turnbull Guidance.
A comprehensive risk management programme is developed and monitored by the Risk Committee, the members of which include senior operational managers, the Group Risk Manager and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
Further information on the Companys risks can be found within the Risk Report on page 22.
Through a programme of assessment, appropriate measures and systems of control are maintained.
Detailed business interruption contingency plans are in place for all key sites and these are regularly tested, in accordance with an agreed schedule.
Capital expenditure and investments Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure that capital expenditure is properly appraised and authorised.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject to approval by the Board.
Centralised treasury function All cash payments and receipts are managed by centralised finance functions within each of the operating companies.
Weekly reporting of cash balances to the Group Finance Department ensures that the position of the Group, as a whole, is properly controlled.
The management of liquidity and borrowing facilities for customer specific requirements, ongoing capital expenditure and working capital of the business is undertaken by the Group Finance Director, with regular reporting to the Board.
Quality and integrity of staff Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new employees are of a suitable calibre.
Management continuously monitors training requirements and annual appraisal procedures are in place to ensure that required standards are maintained.
Resource requirements are identified by managers and reviewed by the relevant national Executive Committee.
The Company has a comprehensive business ethics policy in place and should an employee be found in breach of the policy, appropriate disciplinary actions are applied.
Internal audit The Group has an internal audit function led by the Group Internal Audit Manager who reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed the work of Internal Audit towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit programme, ensuring that all significant areas of the business are independently reviewed over, approximately a three-year period.
The programme and the findings of the reviews are continually assessed to ensure they take account of the latest information and in particular, the results of the annual review of internal control.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department and the Groups risk management programme are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Compliance with DTR The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, information relating to the share capital of the Company, can be found within the Directors Report on page 42.
By order of the Board Stephen Benad Company Secretary 10 March 2010 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
