Directors report corporate Governance maintaininG stanDarDs The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and risk management in decisionmaking across the Group.
i am pleased to report to you on the activities of the the BoarD, Balance anD inDepenDence Board and its committees during 2009. our report Details of the roles and biographies of the Directors emphasises how the Board is committed to maintaining whoserved during the year are shown on pages 60 high standards of corporate governance and risk and61.
At the date of this report, the Board comprises management in decisionmaking across the Group.
aNonExecutive Chairman, three Executive Directors and these standards continued to be of fundamental five independent NonExecutive Directors who are equally importance especially during the corporate activities responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership of that occurred in the past year.
company complied with the provisions of part 1 of the The Board considers it is of appropriate size for the combined code on corporate Governance 2008 the discharge of its duties and that the balance of skills and code.
it is important for the Board to be cognisant to experience are suitable for the requirements of the any corporate governance recommendations including business.
the recent Walker report and Financial reporting council proposals.
the companys application of the Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board principles of the code is set out in this report and the has determined that each of the NonExecutive Directors is remuneration report on page 68. the report also independent.
The Chairman was considered independent gives details of this years Board evaluation process and on appointment.
matters that were considered of relevance to the Board Procedures have been put in place for managing Directors and its principal committees in 2009. conflicts of interest.
Directors are required to submit Nigel Rich CBE, Chairman any potential or actual conflicts they may have with the Company to the Board for approval.
Balance of NonExecutive and Executive Directors Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Chairman 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 62 SEGRO Annual Report 2009 Table of attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings Remuneration Audit Nomination 3 Name Board Committee Committee Committee Nigel Rich 12 N A N A 3 Lord Blackwell 12 6 4 2 Ian Coull 13 N A N A 2 Stephen Howard 11 6 3 N A 1 Lesley MacDonagh 9 3 N A N A Andrew Palmer 11 N A 4 N A Chris Peacock 12 6 N A 3 2 Ins Reinmann 13 N A N A N A David Sleath 13 N A N A N A Ian Sutcliffe 13 N A N A N A Thom Wernink 13 N A 4 2 total number of meetings 13 6 4 3 1 Lesley MacDonagh resigned from the Board on 31 December 2009.
2 Ins Reinmann resigned from the Board on 11 January 2010.
3 Due to the extent of corporate activity in 2009, there were an unusually high number of Board meetings, many called at short notice.
BoarD anD committee structure attenDance at BoarD meetinGs anD role The Board is responsible to shareholders for optimising oFthe BoarD financial returns.
It also has a responsibility to the Groups All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting employees, customers and suppliers.
and meetings of Board Committees of which they are members.
On the few occasions when a Director is There is a Schedule of Matters Reserved for Decision by unableto attend, they will be provided with the papers the Board which was reviewed during the year.
Matters andgiven an opportunity to discuss their comments requiring Board approval include: withthe Chairman prior to the meeting.
group strategy: Board meetings are held on a regular basis, with additional group capital structure: meetings being arranged when necessary.
The Chairman, financial reporting including approval of results: with the assistance of the Company Secretary, is responsible internal controls and risk management: for ensuring good information flows within the Board.
Board papers are generally circulated one week in advance corporate governance: of Board meetings.
In addition to the Board meetings, major acquisitions and disposals: and theDirectors attend an annual Strategy Day to consider major capital investments.
The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities All Directors have access to the advice and services of to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, theCompany Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring details of which are set out below.
The Terms of Reference compliance with Board procedures.
Directors have the right of these Committees, which are reviewed periodically by to seek independent professional advice at the Companys the Board, can be found in the investor section at reasonable expense.
The Company maintains directors www.
andofficers liability insurance which gives appropriate The division of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
Executive are set out in writing and approved by the Throughout the year, the Chairman met with the Board.
The Board has appointed a Senior Independent NonExecutive Directors to discuss business matters NonExecutive Director who has a defined role and acts as a sounding board to the Chairman.
The Chairman andtoconsider any concerns they may wish to raise.
is primarily responsible for the leadership and effective working of the Board.
com 63 Directors report: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report corporate Governance CONTINuED Group BoarD anD committees GROUP BOARD AUDIT NOMINATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION GROUP GROUP SUSTAINABILITY HEALTH AND CAPITAL INFORMATION RISK TREASURY CORPORATE SAFETY APPROVALS SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT RISK RESPONSIBILITY relationship exists between the Executive and the BoarD perFormance evaluation NonExecutive Directors.
Responsibility for all operational An external Board evaluation was conducted in matters, including the implementation of Group strategy, 2008 and the Board proposes to conduct an external isdelegated to the Chief Executive, who is supported review periodically.
During the year, the Chairman with the assistance The Executive Committee comprises the Executive ofthe Company Secretary, led a formal review of Directors.
It has its own Terms of Reference which are theeffectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
agreed by the Board and meets monthly to develop EachDirector completed a detailed appraisal questionnaire strategies and policies for recommendation to the and an analysis of the findings was presented to the Board Board.
The Executive Committee delegates some and the Chairmen of the Committees.
 to a further six committees: The Senior Independent Director, with the NonExecutive Capital Approvals: Directors, led a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Likewise, the Chairman with the NonExecutive Directors, Group Risk Management: conducted a performance evaluation of the Chief Executive.
Group Treasury Risk: The Chief Executive undertook reviews of the performance of the Executive Directors.
His conclusions were presented Health and Safety: to the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors.
Information Systems: and The results were positive and action plans were agreed Sustainability Corporate Responsibility.
onthe few points that were identified.
The Board agreed toregularise the process for postinvestment reviews, These Committees have their own separate Terms ofReference, membership and meet regularly.
64 SEGRO Annual Report 2009 tospend more time with regional management teams, nomination committee tocontinue to hold offsite strategy days and to review The Nomination Committee is chaired by Nigel Rich.
The other members of the Nomination Committee are Lord Blackwell, Ian Coull, Chris Peacock and In last years Board evaluation the following actions were ThomWernink.
In January 2010, Andrew Palmer recommended to improve performance including, holding wasappointed a member of the Nomination Committee.
Board meetings at different locations across the Group, site The Nomination Committee has responsibility for making visits for the NonExecutive Directors and for the Chairman recommendations for new appointments to the Board to hold private meetings with the Directors.
During the and for ensuring that the process is formal, rigorous year progress was made on each of these actions.
BoarD Development During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Directors are encouraged to continually update their composition of the Board and succession planning for the professional skills, capabilities and their knowledge of senior executives.
It concluded that the Board comprises the business.
Internal specialists and external advisers the appropriate mix of skills and experience for running presented to the Board during the year on a wide range the Group.
of subjects including the outlook for the property market, In 2010, both Norman Blackwell and Stephen Howard will the economic climate and risk.
A Board Strategy Day have served 9 years as NonExecutive Directors and will was held during the year at which the Directors received retire at the AGM.
Although the Board still considers both presentations from the Companys financial advisors and of them to be independent, it was deemed appropriate economic analysts and considered the Companys long to undertake a search process.
One Board meeting was held in Paris which tender, Egon Zehnder was appointed by the Nomination was followed by a meeting with the French management Committee to undertake this.
team and a tour of the local property portfolio.
The Board also visited sites around West London to view the recently The Nomination Committee has considered both the acquired Brixton portfolio.
In the forthcoming year further skills and capabilities necessary for the new roles and site visits are planned.
thefuture roles of the existing NonExecutive Directors.
Itwas decided that Andrew Palmer would succeed reelection NormanBlackwell as Senior Independent Director and In accordance with the Articles of Association, onethird Chris Peacock would replace Stephen Howard as Chairman rounded down of the Directors are required to retire of the Remuneration Committee, once successors have by rotation at each Annual General Meeting the AGM been appointed.
The selection process is advanced and together with the Directors appointed by the Board since itisexpected that the appointments will be confirmed the last AGM.
The Committee has concluded that it will not replace Lesley MacDonagh, who retired at the end The Directors retiring by rotation at the 2010 AGM and oftheyear.
offering themselves for reelection are Ian Coull, David Sleath and Thom Wernink.
The Nomination Committee risk manaGement has confirmed that the Directors subject to reelection The Board has overall responsibility for Group risk continue to perform effectively and demonstrate management.
It regularly reviews significant risks and commitment to their respective roles.
actions being taken to mitigate them.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the assurance of the risk The appointment and replacement of the Directors is management process and the review of controls over subject to shareholder approval at the AGM and is in keyrisks to the Audit Committee.
accordance with the Code, the Companies Acts and otherprevailing legislation as well as the Companys The Group Risk Management Committee oversees Articles of Association.
management of risk and implements the Group risk management policy.
The Group Risk Management the remuneration committee Committee is chaired by Ian Coull and attended by The composition of the Remuneration Committee, its the Executive Directors and senior managers who have activities during 2009 and the way it applied the principles functional responsibility for managing risk.
The Group Risk of the Code are described in the Remuneration Report Management Committee reports to the Audit Committee onpages 68 to 77. on the processes utilised for monitoring risks and to the Board on the most significant risks and actions being takento mitigate them.
com 65 Directors report: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report corporate Governance CONTINuED Risks and opportunities associated with the country, region internal control recommendations made by the external and overall Group business objectives are reviewed twice auditors: and a year.
This review begins with an assessment of over followup actions of previous internal control 60risk factors.
Within each area of the business, the risks recommendations.
are considered in terms of impact and likelihood, taking into account the unmitigated risk assuming controls The Audit Committee also receives reports from senior fail and residual risk with controls operating normally.
managers on specific business activities.
During 2009, Identifying these two risk measures allows the Group Risk these included presentations from the Group Financial Management Committee to monitor the most important Controller, the Continental European Finance Director controls and prioritise risk management activities.
The most significant risks are detailed in a Risk Register The Board and the Audit Committee monitor with identified managers assigned to develop action plans managements action plans designed to implement intended to manage or mitigate individual risks to an improvements in internal controls which have been agreed position.
identified as a result of the above procedures.
The Board confirms that it has not been advised of any failings or Between the sixmonthly reviews, new and emerging risks weaknesses which it regards to be significant.
are considered at the Group Risk Management Committee quarterly meetings.
In addition, the Executive Committee The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the regularly reviews emerging risks and considers actions internal auditors activities.
The internal audit function is tomitigate them as they arise.
A performance questionnaire on KPMG LLP was completed by the members of the Audit The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Committee and senior management.
The results were areset out on pages 34 to 37. presented to the Audit Committee and it was agreed that KPMG LLP provided services to a satisfactory standard.
internal control anD internal auDit The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, is relations With shareholDers responsible for reviewing the internal control framework The Board is accountable to shareholders for the across the Group.
This review is consistent with the Code Companys continued success and takes a proactive and covers all material areas of the business including approach to communicating with shareholders.
The Chief financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Executive and Finance Director are the Companys principal management.
The framework and internal controls system spokesmen with investors, fund managers, analysts, the are designed to manage but not to eliminate the risk of press and other interested parties.
The Board regularly failure of the Group to meet its business objectives and as such only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance receives reports on the Groups investor relations activities against material misstatement or loss.
including periodic reports from the Companys brokers and copies of analysts reports.
In order to monitor the effectiveness of the framework, at each meeting the Audit Committee receives written The regular announcements of significant events affecting and verbal reports from the Finance Director and the Group, and frequent updates on current trading, representatives of the internal auditors and the external emphasises the Boards commitment to keeping the auditors on progress with internal control activities.
The Company also arranges site visits for investors.
Following the acquisition of Brixton, These reports include: the Company arranged tours for major institutional reviews of business processes and activities, including shareholders and analysts to view the Groups enlarged action plans to address any identified control weaknesses West London portfolio.
or recommendations for improvements in controls The Chief Executive and Finance Director attended orprocesses: meetings with the Companys major institutional investors managements own assessments of the strengths and to discuss both the rights issue and the acquisition weaknesses of the overall control environment in their ofBrixton.
area of responsibility and the action plans to address The Chairman and Senior Independent NonExecutive theweaknesses: Director are available to shareholders, should they have the results of the internal audits: concerns which contact through the usual channels 66 SEGRO Annual Report 2009
