has failed to resolve or is otherwise inappropriate.
All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and be available to answer shareholders questions either during The Chairman or the Senior Independent NonExecutive or after the meeting.
All of the Directors attended the Director attend the financial results presentations.
Board is kept informed about any such discussions with shareholders.
For each resolution, shareholders have the option to direct their vote either for or against a resolution or to withhold constructive use oF the aGm their vote.
At the 2009 AGM, voting was conducted The Notice of AGM is dispatched to shareholders at least by a poll.
The Board believes this enhances shareholder democracy, as all shares voted at the meeting as well as 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company proxy votes lodged prior to the meeting, are counted.
proposes separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
A presentation is made on the progress Following the meeting, the results of votes lodged for and and performance of the Group prior to the formal against each resolution are announced to the London Stock business of the meeting.
Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
auDit committee report related placing and open offer and 0.1m the past year has been particularly eventful Chairman also periodically meets with the in respect of the review of the SEGRO half for the audit committee the committee.
external auditors without management yearly report.
The nonaudit fee for taxation in addition to monitoring the companys being present.
Assuming financial statements, the committee played Deloitte LLP were appointed external a reduced level of corporate activity, the an integral role in reviewing the recent auditors of the Group in 2007 following a Committee would expect the fees paid to corporate transactions taking into account competitive tender process.
During the year, Deloitte LLP will reduce in 2010. both risk management and internal control the Committee considered the appointment, procedures.
the committee has been Deloitte LLP have provided written compensation and independence of the active in assessing the financial integration confirmation of their independence to the external auditors.
plan for incorporating the Brixton business Committee.
A performance evaluation The Committee has a policy for the use of into the seGro Group including financial questionnaire on Deloitte LLP was completed the external auditors for nonaudit services.
by the members of the Committee and This policy was reconfirmed during the year.
The results show that Andrew Palmer, The policy recognises that there are certain Deloitte LLP provide a satisfactory audit Chairman of the Audit Committee services where, due to their knowledge of service.
The Committee has recommended the Company, Deloitte LLP will be in the that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP be The Committee comprised Andrew Palmer, best position to perform nonaudit services.
proposed to shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
who is the Chairman, Lord Blackwell, Similarly, the policy has a nonexhaustive Stephen Howard and Thom Wernink.
list of functions that Deloitte LLP should not The Committee reviews the clarity and Andrew Palmer, as a member of the Financial provide as it could be detrimental to their completeness of the disclosures made in the Reporting Review Panel of the Financial independence as external auditors.
financial statements of the Company and Reporting Council and former Finance considers significant accounting policies, The Committee keeps under review the Director of a FTSE 100 company, has recent any changes to them and any significant ratio of audit fees to nonaudit fees charged and relevant financial experience.
by the external auditors to ensure that their At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, independence and objectivity is not put at During the year, the Committee also there are a number of regular attendees at risk.
The audit fee was 0.9 million.
The reviewed the arrangements put in place each meeting including the Chairman of the statutory and regulatory filing fees to Deloitte whereby employees may raise, in confidence, Company, the Chief Executive, the Finance LLP totalled 1million, with 0.4 million any concerns which they may have in respect Director, the Group Financial Controller and being the costs associated with the rights of financial reporting or other matters and representatives of the internal auditors and issue, 0.5 million being the costs associated the arrangements for the independent with the acquisition of Brixton and the investigation of those matters.
com 67 Directors report: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
