| | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 43 are required to submit themselves for re-election Association and the Combined Code, John Emly annually in accordance with the Companys will be subject to annual re-election.
The Corporate Articles of Association and the Combined Code.
proposals have been discussed with major institutional shareholders who have expressed The Chairman, John Manser, holds a number of governance support for the Companys actions as described.
non-executive directorships which are disclosed The proposal that John Emly remain as Chairman on page 5.
The Board considers that the time of the Remuneration Committee is an interim commitment required by his other roles does Statement of compliance with the measure not expected to extend beyond the not impact on his Chairmanship of the Company.
Combined Code Annual General Meeting in 2011.
As a result of John Emly and Gordon McQueen are both this consultation, it was decided that John Emly The Board of Directors is responsible to directors at J P Morgan Mid Cap Investment would step down as Senior Independent shareholders for the strategic direction and Trust but the Board considers that this does Director and Gordon McQueen has now taken management and control of the Groups not affect the exercise of their independent over the role.
activities and is committed to high standards of judgement on the Board or Committees.
Corporate Governance in achieving these goals.
None of the executive Directors has held any The Board confirms that the Company has Functioning of the Board non-executive directorship or the chairmanship complied in full with the recommendations of the The Board met five times during the year of a FTSE 100 company during the year.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance ended 30 September 2009.
Its function is to issued in June 2008 the Combined Code The Board has a Senior Independent Director formulate strategy and monitor and control except that in the period from 31 March 2009 to whose role includes being available to operating and financial performance.
This is 30 September 2009, the Company did not comply shareholders if required.
He is also a achieved through the regular review of with the recommendation that at least half the nominated contact for employees under the operations and detailed reports on activity Board should comprise non-executive Directors Groups whistle blowing policy.
John Emly was within the Groups property portfolio, quarterly determined by the Board to be independent as a the Senior Independent Director for the full financial reporting and forecast up-dates, and result of the circumstances explained below.
year and Gordon McQueen was appointed to regular reviews of risks and internal controls.
this role with effect from 1 October 2009.
The application of the principles contained in the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Gordon McQueen is also the non-executive Combined Code is described below.
The Chairman is responsible for Director with recent and relevant financial the leadership of the Board, ensuring its experience.
Composition of the Board effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for At the beginning of the year, the Board Board succession the management of the Groups day-to-day comprised the non-executive Chairman, four The Board stated in its 2008 Annual Report that operations.
A formal statement of the division executive Directors and four non-executive following the appointment of Patience Wheatcroft of responsibilities between the Chairman and Directors.
On 30 March 2009, Alastair to the Board, a further non-executive Director Chief Executive has been adopted by the Board.
MacDonald died and on 30 September 2009, would be sought to continue progressive Patience Wheatcroft resigned from the Board refreshing of the Boards membership.
In addition to Board meetings, there is frequent having taken full time employment which and regular communication between executive precluded her from holding any corporate Following the unexpected death of Alastair and non-executive Directors to ensure that the directorships.
On 23 September 2009, on the MacDonald, the Nomination Committee has non-executive Directors are fully aware of all recommendation of the Nomination Committee, considered the implications for the composition aspects of the Groups operations.
The nonOliver Marriott was appointed to the Board.
of the Board, and in particular, the impact of the executive Directors met twice during the year length of John Emlys service on the Board as he without executive Directors or the Company At 30 September 2009, the Board comprised was appointed on 16 October 2000.
the non-executive Chairman, four executive suitable candidates to undertake the role of a Directors and three non-executive Directors.
non-executive Director needs to be undertaken The Chairman is responsible for ensuring all The composition of the Board from 31 March with careful consideration.
As with previous Directors continually update their skills and 2009 until 30 September 2009 did not therefore non-executive Director appointments, the knowledge required to fulfil their role on the comply with the Combined Code.
An active Company has engaged the services of a specialist Board and the Boards Committees.
All search process is underway to identify search company to assist in the process.
Directors are encouraged to meet the training additional non-executive Directors with the requirements of their professional bodies to requisite skills and knowledge to enhance The Nomination Committee has considered the ensure that their skills are updated and the composition of the Board and meet the independence of John Emly in light of the criteria refreshed.
The Board receives regular technical recommendations of the Combined Code.
of the Combined Code which states that a nonupdates on regulatory, accounting and legal executive Director may be determined by a matters.
Each of the non-executive Directors is considered board to be independent notwithstanding the to be independent of the executive management fact that he has served for more than nine Following his appointment to the Board, of the Group and free from any business or other years.
The main principle of the Combined Oliver Marriott has received a structured and relationship which could materially interfere with Code principle A.
3 which governs this area comprehensive induction to the Company, led by the exercise of their independent judgement.
seeks to ensure that the balance of executive the Chairman and co-ordinated and administered John Manser was considered independent at the and non-executive Directors is such that no by the Company Secretary which introduced him date of his appointment as Chairman in October individual or small group of individuals can to all aspects of the Company and his role as a 2004 but for the purposes of the Combined Code dominate the boards decision making process.
Director of a publicly listed company, following and the balance of non-executive and executive John Emly has served on the Board for nine the guidelines issued by the Institute of Directors on the Board, he is not included within years and was fully independent for the whole Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
the total of independent non-executive Directors.
of the financial year ended 30 September 2009.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved The Nomination Committee considers that he Each of the executive Directors is a member of for the Board for decision which includes, remains independent in character and a recognised professional body and is expected inter alia, approval of all investment property judgment notwithstanding the length of his to act in accordance with the ethical principles acquisitions and disposals, refurbishment tenure.
The Board values his contribution to the of the relevant body.
The non-executive and property management strategies and all Group and is of the opinion that by remaining Directors are of high calibre and contribute significant aspects of finance.
The schedule of on the Board he does not breach the spirit of wide-ranging business and financial experience matters reserved for the Board is available on Combined Code principle A.
3. to the Boards decision making process and the Groups website.
their terms of appointment are available for During the search process for additional noninspection at the Companys registered office and All Directors have access to the Company executive Directors and the time taken following on the Groups website.
Biographies of each Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that the appointment of new non-executive Directors member of the Board are set out on page 5.
Board procedure, corporate governance, statutory to become familiar with the Group, the Nomination and compliance obligations are met and that Committee and the Board recommend that John All Directors are required to submit themselves Board discussions and decisions are appropriately Emly remain on the Board as an independent for election at the Annual General Meeting recorded.
Directors may seek independent non-executive Director and, until an additional following their appointment and thereafter for reprofessional advice at the Groups expense non-executive Director is appointed to this role, election at three yearly intervals.
Non-executive in furtherance of their duties as Directors.
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors who have completed nine years service In accordance with the Companys Articles of SHAFTESBURY PLC | | 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE assess the effectiveness of the process and Attendance at meetings ensure that the Group complies with the Turnbull Directors attendance at Board, Committee and general meetings convened in the year ended Guidance on Internal Control.
The Audit Committee 30 September 2009 is set out below: has the opportunity to question management on Audit Remuneration Nomination the risks and how they are identified and managed Board Committee Committee Committee AGM GM before reporting to the Board.
Number of meetings held in the year 5 3 332 The principal risks and uncertainties identified in this review and how they are managed or Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended mitigated are summarised in the Business Review on page 34 to 36.
Executive Directors J S Lane 5 - - - 2 The Board confirms that procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced B Bickell 5 - - - 2 by the Group have been in place throughout the S J Quayle 5 - - - 2 year under review and up to the date of approval T J C Welton 5 - - - 2 of this Annual Report.
Non-Executive Directors The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal financial control framework, which are P J Manser 5 - 1 1 3 1 monitored throughout the year, are: J R K Emly 5 3 3 3 1 a The close involvement of the executive Directors A W MacDonald deceased 1 2 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including W G McQueen 5 3 3 3 1 regular meetings with senior staff to review all PJ Wheatcroft 4 2 3 2 2 1 2 1 operational aspects of the business.
O J D Marriott 0 0 - - - 0 0 b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The Board has responsibility for The numbers in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which a Director could have attended during strategy and has adopted a schedule of the year.
During the year John Manser resigned from the Remuneration Committee, Patience Wheatcroft was appointed to the Nomination Committee and Alastair MacDonald passed away.
Oliver Marriott was appointed to the matters which are required to be brought to it Board on 23 September 2009 and as at 30 September 2009 had not been appointed to any Committees.. for decision including acquisitions, disposals and major refurbishment proposals which The meetings recorded above are the The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet require the approval of the Board.
scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
investor representatives regularly during the c A comprehensive system of financial reporting Additional ad hoc meetings are held between year to discuss strategic and other issues and forecasting.
Financial accounts are the main meetings to deal with routine and within the constraints imposed by the prepared quarterly and submitted to the operational matters as required and are not Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of Board.
Profit and cash flow forecasts are included in the meetings reported above.
The meetings usually prepared at least quarterly, approved by the include a visit to parts of the Groups portfolio.
Board and used to monitor actual Board committees On the announcement of the Groups annual performance.
and half year results, the Chief Executive and The Board has established three committees to d Regular meetings of the Audit Committee and Finance Director give presentations to Board at which financial information is deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: institutional investors and analysts and hold a reviewed and business risks are identified and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
The series of one to one briefings with key monitored.
The Group has a comprehensive terms of reference of these Committees are risk identification and management procedure shareholders.
Non-executive Directors, available on the Groups website.
The Company which includes obtaining the input of all staff including the Senior Independent Director, also Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the including executive Directors involved in the attend a number of these presentations and Committees and the minutes are circulated to management of the Groups business.
A copy of the presentation is made all Directors.
Separate reports from the overall process is reviewed by the Audit available on the Groups website.
The Board Committees are set out on pages 45 to 51.
receives regular reports on all shareholder e The day to day estate management of the Board performance meetings from the Chief Executive.
Groups portfolio is outsourced to three firms The Senior Independent Director is available The Board carries out an annual review of its of managing agents.
The Groups staff monitor to shareholders as an alternative channel of performance and effectiveness.
The review is their activities and have established extensive communication with the Board.
undertaken internally and includes completion by financial and operational controls to ensure all members of the Board of a comprehensive the managing agents maintain an acceptable Internal control and risk level of service.
The Group also uses the questionnaire which incorporates the criteria management procedures services of an external consultant from time to recommended by the Combined Code and time to review the operational processes and addresses the composition and functioning of the The Directors are responsible for the Groups controls of the managing agents.
Board and each of its Committees.
There is an systems of internal controls and risk f A comprehensive manual recording the key assessment of each Director and the Chairman management and for reviewing their business processes and related controls by their peers.
The Chairman interviewed each of effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to across the whole of the Groups business the executive Directors as part of the process.
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks which is regularly updated and reviewed by the The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior faced by the business and can provide only Audit Committee and Board.
Independent Director, were responsible for the reasonable and not absolute assurance In view of the Groups controls structure performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking against material misstatement or loss.
summarised above, and on advice from the Audit into account the views of the executive Directors.
The executive Directors play a key role in the Committee, the Board has resolved that at the The results of the review were considered by identification and management of risks.
Nonpresent time there is no need to establish an the Nomination Committee and reported to the executive Directors review the risks and internal audit function.
The review carried out in 2009 did not processes of risk identification, management and reveal any aspects of performance or control at both the Audit Committee and Board.
Going concern effectiveness of the Board or its Committees Executive Directors and staff meet regularly to Comprehensive financial forecasts are prepared which were considered to be unsatisfactory.
The review both the risks facing the business and at least quarterly and submitted to the Audit review did suggest some changes to the timing Committee for review.
Based on the information the controls established to minimise those of meetings to improve their effectiveness, contained in these forecasts, the Directors have risks and their effectiveness in operation.
The which have now been implemented.
a reasonable expectation that the Group and the aim of these reviews is to provide reasonable Company have adequate resources to continue assurance that material risks and problems are Relations with shareholders in operational existence for the foreseeable identified and appropriate action taken at an future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt The Company encourages dialogue with all early stage including insurance being in place the going concern basis in preparing the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting where appropriate.
Reports on this review financial statements.
The Chairman and process are submitted to the Audit Committee Committee Chairmen are present at the and the Board during the year to enable them to By Order of the Board Annual General Meeting to deal with any Penny Thomas matters raised by shareholders and all other Secretary Directors are encouraged to attend.
