| | 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT In the year under review, the Committee has undertaken: Nomination The monitoring of the composition of the Board: Committee Board succession planning: Nomination of Directors for election and Report re-election: and A review of the annual Board and Committee Membership of the Committee performance evaluations together with recommendations to the Board.
John Manser Chairman of the Committee John Emly In 2008, the Committee recommended to the Alastair MacDonald deceased 30 March 2009 Board that an additional non-executive Director should be appointed.
The Committee Gordon McQueen recognised the need to maintain a balance of Patience Wheatcroft from 14 May 2009 independent non-executive Directors on the to 30 September 2009 Board, particularly as existing non-executive Oliver Marriott appointed 13 October 2009 Directors reach nine years service and cease to be independent under the criteria for The Nomination Committee the Committee independence of the Combined Code.
is comprised of the Chairman of the Company and three independent non-executive Directors.
Unexpectedly during the year, Alastair MacDonald passed away and Patience Meetings Wheatcroft advised the Company that she The Committee met three times during the would resign on 30 September 2009 as a year ended 30 September 2009. result of conditions of full time employment she accepted in July 2009.
Main activities of the Committee The Committee had appointed an executive The Committee is responsible for the search company to compile a list of potential selection and nomination to the Board of candidates for the role of non-executive candidates for directorship and in addition Director.
The process is continuing, and whilst advises the Board on the orderly succession the formal recommendation to the Board for for appointment of Directors and monitors the the appointment of Oliver Marriott has been balance of the composition of the Board.
made, the Committee continues to search for The Committee recognises that succession at least one additional non-executive Director.
planning is important to the future continuing The process for the recruitment of additional performance of the Group and it considers non-executive Directors is extensive.
All succession planning for the Board as a whole candidates for short list meet executive and senior management on a regular basis.
Directors and senior management and visit The Committee keeps the composition of the the Groups portfolio to understand fully the Board under review and whilst the search nature of the Groups business, prior to for non-executive Directors continues, the interview by the Committee.
Committee recommended to the Board the appointment during the year of one non-executive Director.
On behalf of the Board John Manser Nomination Committee Chairman 1 December 2009 SHAFTESBURY PLC
