| | AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2009 51 The need to establish an internal audit The level of non-audit fees payable to the function: external audit firm have risen over recent years, Audit Committee due to events such as the Groups conversion Developments in accounting and reporting to a REIT in 2008 and the Rights Issue in 2009. requirements: Report The Groups conversion of its interest in The Committees effectiveness: Longmartin Properties Limited to a REIT is Membership of the Committee The performance and independence ongoing, but with the exception of this work of the external auditors concluding in and unforeseen circumstances, it is expected Gordon McQueen Chairman of the a recommendation to the Board on the that the level of non-audit fees should revert Committee reappointment of the auditors by to more normal levels in the year ahead.
John Emly shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Alastair MacDonald deceased 30 March 2009 The auditors provide annually a letter to the Rights Issue Committee confirming their independence Patience Wheatcroft resigned 30 September During the year, the Company undertook a and stating the methods they employ to 2009 Rights Issue.
The Committee reviewed the safeguard their independence: and prospectus for the Rights Issue which Oliver Marriott appointed 12 October 2009 Non-audit assignments awarded to the required a detailed analysis of the risk factors The Audit Committee the Committee is external auditors.
of the Group and the preparation of a working comprised solely of independent non-executive capital report.
The award of this work to As part of the monitoring of the preparation Directors.
Gordon McQueen is a Member of  LLP was authorised of the annual and half year results, the the Institute of Chartered Accountants of in advance by the Committee.
Committee meets with the Groups external Scotland, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of valuers to discuss the process of the annual Bankers in Scotland and is the member of the Tenure of auditors and half year valuation.
Committee with recent and relevant financial  LLP or its experience.
John Emly is a Fellow of the predecessor firms has been the Companys Award of non-audit assignments Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
auditor since it listed on the London Stock to the external audit firm Exchange in October 1986.
In view of the good Meetings The policy of the Committee is that non-audit working relationship with the auditor and the assignments will not be awarded to the The Committee met three times during the confirmations set out below, together with the external audit firm where there is a risk of a year ended 30 September 2009.
The Finance safeguard of audit partner rotation every five conflict arising with their audit independence Director and representatives of the Groups years, the Committee is satisfied with that it and objectivity.
The award of all non-audit auditors have been invited to attend each has not been necessary to tender the audit assignments to the external audit firm in meeting.
The Committee considers some work.
The current senior statutory auditor excess of 25,000 is subject to the approval items of business without executives or the has been in place for four years.
Auditor confirmation The audit fees for the Company and the Group Main activities of the Committee are relatively low due primarily to the simple  LLP have confirmed The principal responsibilities of the Committee corporate structure of the Group.
Audit fees to the Committee: are to monitor the framework of financial for the year totalled 110,000 2008: 99,000.
That they have internal procedures in place controls, review published financial information, During the year, the external auditors, to identify any aspects of non-audit work monitor developments in financial reporting  LLP undertook nonwhich could compromise their role as and review the framework and effectiveness audit work for the Group totalling 656,000 auditors and to ensure the objectivity of their of risk management and controls across the 2008: 143,000.
Of this amount, 42,000 audit report: Groups business.
In addition, it advises the 2008: 101,000 related to taxation compliance Board on the appointment of external auditors That the total fees paid by the Group during and associated matters, 417,000 2008: nil and their remuneration for both audit and the year do not represent a material part of related to the working capital report and other non-audit work.
In the year under review, the their firms fee income: and work relating to the Rights Issue, 36,000 Committee has reviewed and monitored: 2008: nil related to the review of the half That they consider that they have year financial statements and 113,000 2008: maintained their audit independence Published annual and half year financial 27,000 related to other services.
Note 5 to throughout the year.
information including consideration of the the financial statements sets out the fees paid appropriateness of accounting policies and to the Groups auditors.
material assumptions and estimates adopted by management: On behalf of the Board A non-audit assignment in excess of 25,000 The financial information contained within relates to the REIT conversion of the Groups Gordon McQueen the Rights Issue prospectus: interest in Longmartin Properties Limited which Audit Committee Chairman was awarded to  LLP Published Interim Management Statements: 1 December 2009 during the previous financial year.
This work Managements reports to the Board on risk continued during 2009 and is expected to and internal controls and the Groups public continue in the year ahead.
statements on these matters: The Committee was satisfied that the non-audit The manual recording the key business work did not give rise to any risk that the processes and related controls across the auditors objectivity and performance of their whole of the Groups business: statutory audit responsibilities would be The risk and control strategies of the compromised.
Groups principal managing agents: The Groups whistleblowing policy: SHAFTESBURY PLC
