Corporate governance statement approval of budgets, major capital expenditure projects, Statement by the Directors on profit and cash flow performance and general treasury and compliance with the provisions risk management policies.
During the year responsibility for the Groups day-to-day operations was delegated to of the Combined Code the Chief Executives of the two divisions who, supported by the Executive Directors and Executive management, Principles of good governance implement the Boards strategy and manage the Groups business.
Upon appointment, all Directors undertake a The Board is committed to high standards of corporate formal introduction to all the Groups activities and are governance.
The adoption and maintenance of good also provided with the opportunity for on-going training governance is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
to ensure that they are kept up-to-date on changes in This report, together with the Directors Remuneration relevant legislation and the general business environment, Report on pages 31 to 34, describes how the Board applies including the review of relevant literature and attending the principles of good governance and best practice as set external courses.
Procedures are in place for Directors out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the to seek both independent advice, at the expense of the Combined Code.
A statement of compliance with the Company, and the advice and services of the Company Combined Code can be found at the end of this report.
Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that The Board Board procedures are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
During the year ended 31 March 2009 the Board consisted The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary of an Executive Chairman, two Chief Executives, two is determined by the Board as a whole.
other Executive Directors and two Non-Executives who are deemed to be independent.
The Combined Code The Board has completed a register relating to potential recommends that a group the size of Cranswick should have at least two independent Non-Executive Directors.
conflicts of interest with its Directors and confirms that no However, on 22 December 2008 the Company entered the such conflicts exist.
This register will be reviewed annually FTSE 250 index and as a result the code requires the Board or at such other time as is necessary.
to include more than two independent Non-Executive Directors.
In line with the Code the Company has therefore The Board, led by the Chairman, has carried out a formal been searching for a suitable candidate to increase the evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees number of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The under a system based on a questionnaire circulated to all Board is confident that it has met this requirement of the Directors which was used to facilitate a Board discussion.
Combined Code in full during the year.
The evaluation exercise showed that the Board and its Committees were working well but as expected a number The Board meets each month throughout the year to direct of actions were agreed to improve effectiveness.
The and control the overall strategy and operating performance Chairman has carried out an evaluation of the performance of the Group.
To enable them to carry out these of individual Directors by individual discussions with responsibilities all Directors have full and timely access the Board members.
He meets with the Non-Executive to all relevant information.
A formal schedule of matters Directors at least once a year to consider his conclusions.
reserved for decision by the Board covers key areas of the Groups affairs including acquisition and divestment policy, In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet, without the Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 25 Chairman present, in order to appraise his performance.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommendations for the appointment, reappointment or The Companys Articles of Association provide that one removal of the external auditors and for reviewing their third but not more than one third of the Directors retire effectiveness.
After a period of five years it was decided by rotation each year and with the proviso that each that the external audit function should be put out to tender Director shall seek re-election at the Annual General and the Committee reviewed presentations from four of Meeting every three years.
All new Directors are subject to the major auditing firms.
The Committee discussed the election by Shareholders at the first opportunity following various proposals and it was decided that, based on their their appointment.
proposal and knowledge of the business, Ernst & Young should be retained as auditors.
There were no contractual Directors biographies and membership of the various obligations in place in reaching this decision and there Committees are shown on page 17.
The formal terms of has been no time limit given with the auditors but their reference for the main Board Committees together with performance is to be assessed each year.
The Committee the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive also approves the terms of engagement and remuneration Directors are available for inspection at the Companys of the external auditors, and monitors their independence.
Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
There is a policy in place in relation to the types of nonaudit services the external auditors should not carry out so as not to compromise their independence and these would include internal accounting or other financial services, Board Committees internal audit services or their outsourcing, executive or management roles or functions, and remuneration Audit Committee consultancy.
There is also a whistle blowing policy in place which includes arrangements by which staff can, in The Audit Committee throughout the year comprised of confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in two independent Non-Executive Directors, John Worby matters of financial reporting and other matters.
The Committee is chaired by John Worby, the Groups Senior Independent Director, The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are who is a Chartered Accountant and has considerable recent relevant financial experience.
Patrick Farnsworth available from the Company Secretary.
has many years experience in the food industry where he was Joint Managing Director of William Jackson & Son The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at Limited until his retirement in 2005.
It is a requirement the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder of the Combined Code that the Audit Committee should questions that might be raised on the Committees comprise all independent Non-Executive Directors.
Board is confident that the Group complies with this requirement.
Remuneration Committee The Chairman, the Finance Director and the Group The Remuneration Committee comprises of Patrick Financial Controller, who is responsible for assessing the Farnsworth Chairman and John Worby.
It is a requirement Groups internal financial controls, together with the of the Combined Code that the Remuneration Committee external auditors attend the meetings as appropriate.
The should, in the case of smaller companies, consist of at least external auditors have the opportunity for direct access two members who are considered by the Combined Code to the Committee without the Executive Directors being to be independent.
It is a requirement of the Combined present and the Committee formally meets with the Code that the Remuneration Committee should comprise external auditors at least once a year without the Executive all independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is Directors being present.
confident that the Group complies with this requirement.
Martin Davey, Executive Chairman, attends meetings The Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies of the Remuneration Committee by invitation and in and internal reports on accounting and internal financial an advisory capacity.
No Director attends any part of a control matters together with reports from the external meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the for monitoring the integrity of financial statements and Non-Executive Directors.
related announcements and for all aspects of internal control and meets at least three times a year, two of The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for which involve a review of the Groups interim and full year executive remuneration and determines, on behalf of the statements.
The Audit Committee considers annually the Board, the other terms and conditions of service for each extent and effectiveness of the work of the internal audit Executive Director.
It determines appropriate performance Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 26 Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Board conditions for the annual cash bonus and long term The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are incentive schemes and approves awards and the issue of available from the Company Secretary.
options in accordance with the terms of those schemes.
The Remuneration Committee also recommends and The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will attend monitors the level and structure of remuneration of senior the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder management below that of main Board Director.
The questions that might be raised on the Committees Remuneration Committee has access to advice from the activities.
Company Secretary and to detailed analysis of executive remuneration in comparable companies.
In addition from Meetings attendance time to time the Committee undertakes a more detailed review using external consultants.
The last such review was Details of the number of meetings of, and members undertaken by Deloitte in 2008.
Details of the Committees attendance at, the Board, Audit, Remuneration and current remuneration policies are given in the Directors Nomination Committees during the year are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 34. table below: The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees No.
D. Black 9 - - - Nomination Committee A. Couch 12 - - - M. Davey 12 - - 2 The Nomination Committee comprises Martin Davey, B. Hoggarth 12 - - - Executive Chairman, who also acts as the Committees Chairman, Patrick Farnsworth, independent NonJ.
Lindop 12 - - - Executive, and John Worby, independent Non-Executive.
P. Farnsworth 12 3 6 2 It is a requirement of the Combined Code that a majority J. Worby 12 3 6 2 of the members of the Nomination Committee should be Non-Executive Directors, and the Chairman should be either the Chairman of the Board or a Non-Executive Shareholders Director.
The Board is confident that it fully complies with these requirements of the Combined Code.
Due to the size The views of Shareholders expressed during meetings with of the Group and the stability of the Board the Chairmans them are communicated by the Chairman to the Board as time commitment to the Committee is not anticipated to a whole, and through this process of communication the be onerous.
Boards Executive and Non-Executive Directors are able to gain a sound understanding of the views and concerns The Committee meets at least once a year and reviews of the major Shareholders.
The Chairman discusses the structure, size and composition of the Board and is governance and strategy with major Shareholders.
responsible for considering and making recommendations Other Directors are available to meet the Companys to the Board on new appointments of Executive and major Shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors.
It also gives full consideration Director is available to listen to the views of Shareholders, to succession planning in the course of its work taking particularly if they have concerns which contact with the into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Chairman has failed to resolve or for which such contact Group and what skills and expertise are therefore needed is inappropriate.
Principles of corporate governance and on the Board and from senior management in the future.
voting guidelines issued by the Companys institutional The Committee recommended the appointment of Mark Shareholders and their representative bodies are circulated Bottomley as Finance Director with effect from 1 June 2009 to and considered by the Board.
The Board also welcomes when John Lindop retires and it also continues to seek an the attendance and questions of Shareholders at the additional independent Non-Executive Director.
The current Annual General Meeting which is also attended by the directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations will be John Worby and Adam Couch.
details on page 17 demonstrate the range of experience and skills which each brings to the benefit of the Company.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 27 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 28 Board determined that it was not aware of any significant Going concern deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis, having satisfied themselves from a review of Auditor independence internal budgets and forecasts and current bank facilities that the Group has adequate resources to continue in The Board is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP has adequate operational existence for the foreseeable future.
policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
The Group Internal Control meets its obligations for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors through the The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Audit Committee, whose terms of reference include Groups systems of internal control, which safeguards an obligation to consider and keep under review the the Shareholders investment and the Groups assets, and degree of work undertaken by the external auditor, other for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only than the statutory audit, to ensure such objectivity and provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against independence is safeguarded.
There is also an established material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage policy for the work the external auditors can and cannot rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business do so as not to compromise their independence and objectives.
in addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee is consulted prior to awarding to the external auditors any The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational non-audit services in excess of 20,000. structure with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board.
The organisational structure During the year the Audit Committee considered has been designed in order to plan, execute, monitor the following factors in assessing the objectivity and and control the Groups objectives effectively and to independence of Ernst & Young LLP: ensure that internal control becomes embedded in the operations.
The auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring independence, including those to ensure The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the that the partners and staff have no personal or business Board on issues relating to internal controls and risk relationships with the Group, other than those in the management following each Audit Committee meeting.
normal course of business permitted by UK ethical The Board confirms that the key on-going processes and guidance.
features of the Groups internal risk based control system, which accord with the Turnbull guidance, have been fully The auditors policies for the rotation of the lead operative throughout the year and up to the date of the partner and key audit personnel.
These include: a process Adherence by management and the auditor to the to identify and evaluate business risk: a strong control Groups policy for the procurement of non-audit environment: an information and communication process: services.
a monitoring system and a regular Board review for effectiveness.
The Group Financial Controller is responsible Compliance with the for overseeing the Groups internal controls.
Combined Code During the year the management of the Food and Pet The Directors consider that the Group has, during the year businesses identified the key business risks within their ended 31 March 2009, complied with the requirements of operations, considered the financial implications and the Combined Code.
assessed the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate these risks.
The Board reviewed a summary of the findings and this, along with direct involvement By order of the Board in the strategies of the businesses, investment appraisal Malcolm Windeatt and budgeting process, enabled the Board to report on the Company Secretary, effectiveness of internal control.
Following its review the 18 May 2009 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 29 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 30
