Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of The Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code where practicable.
This statement, together with the directors remuneration report, set out on pages 27 to 36, describes how the relevant principles of governance set out in the 2008 version of the Code are applied to the Company.
The Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company and in this role it assists in the development of a clear strategy for the Group, monitors operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that appropriate controls and systems are in place to manage risk.
It comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and three independent non-executive directors who have a range of business, financial and international skills and experience.
This provides an appropriate balance within the Board.
Biographical notes appear on pages 22 and 23.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have written accountabilities that have been approved by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and this is posted on the Companys website www.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet together without the executive directors present on an ad hoc basis and the nonexecutive directors meet at least annually in the absence of the Chairman in order to appraise his performance.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive meet on a regular basis.
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where necessary the directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their positions to the extent permitted by law.
In addition the Company maintained directors and officers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their existing experience, qualifications and skills.
In order to build and increase the non-executive directors familiarity with, and understanding of, the Groups people and businesses and the markets in which it operates, presentations from senior managers are made at Board meetings on a regular basis.
The Board also usually holds at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda operating site.
This year the Board held one meeting at Ditton in the UK and also one in the USA during a visit to our two manufacturing sites at Atlas Point and Mill Hall and the USA headquarters and technology centre at Edison.
These visits allow the non-executives to tour the sites and observe the operations at first hand as well as providing the opportunity to meet the local management and employees and gain their insight into the business.
Non-executive directors also undertake site visits on an individual basis.
Attendance at meetings Details of the attendance by directors at the AGM, meetings of the Board and the Board committees on which they are eligible to sit are set out below: Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended M C Flower 9 8 6 6 5 5 - 3 M C Buzzacott 9 9 6 6 5 5 3 3 D M Dunn resigned 29 April 2009 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 S Musesengwa 9 9 6 6 5 5 3 3 P N N Turner appointed 1 June 2009 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2 M Humphrey 9 9 6 6 - 5 - 3 M S Christie 9 9 - - - - - 3 Attended by invitation In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the directors attended a half day meeting to review the Groups strategy.
They also met with the Companys financial and public relations advisers to discuss the feedback from investors and analysts to the Groups 2008 annual results.
Re-election of directors The Companys Articles of Association require the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
At this years AGM, Nigel Turner will be standing for election for the first time following his appointment in June 2009 and Mike Humphrey and Sean Christie will be retiring under Article 85 and offering themselves for re-election.
Further details about the directors are given in the notice of the AGM which is in a separate document issued to shareholders with the annual report.
37 Corporate governance Conflicts of interest The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring actual and potential conflicts.
The Articles of Association of the Company allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation.
No conflicts were identified or authorised during the year.
Non-executive directors Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
At present there are four such directors, including the Chairman and the senior independent director, Michael Buzzacott, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular business presentations and by site visits.
The non-executive Chairman was independent on his appointment in 2005 but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent.
The issue of independence in relation to the other non-executive directors was considered specifically when Nigel Turner joined the Board, as both he and Michael Buzzacott are non-executive directors of Genus Plc.
The Board did not consider that these roles would affect their judgement in relation to Croda and its business and therefore, it is the Boards opinion that all the non-executive directors who have served during the year are independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
In order that David Dunn could attend the 2009 AGM and be available to report to shareholders in his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee he remained in office for approximately one week beyond the end of his nine year term.
Otherwise, during 2009 no non-executive director or the Chairman had served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 22 and 23.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at the AGM.
Board committees The Board has three main committees which are established by Board resolution and each has written terms of reference which can be found on the Groups website www.
Audit Committee Michael Buzzacott Chairman Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner The Audit Committee, which consists of all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, meets at least three times a year to coincide with key dates in the Companys financial reporting cycle.
Following David Dunns retirement from the Board in April 2009, the Committee temporarily comprised two independent non-executive directors rather than the three recommended by the Code.
This situation was rectified with the appointment of Nigel Turner in June 2009.
No meetings took place in the intervening period.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Committee members has the relevant financial and accounting experience to enable them to contribute to the Committees work.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Risk and Control Manager and representatives from the external and internal auditors attend meetings by invitation.
The chairman of the Audit Committee holds independent meetings with the Group Risk and Control Manager and also with the external auditors.
The Committees remit is to assist the Board to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
As part of its normal responsibilities the Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company.
This includes reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the statements and the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies.
In addition it is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems including that of the Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management system.
It reviews and assesses the annual internal audit plan and all reports on the Company from the internal auditors and agrees the annual audit plan with the external auditors and reviews the findings of the audit and the interim review with the external auditors.
During the year the Committee Members also: n received reports and presentations concerning key specific risks identified by the Risk Management Committee n monitored compliance with the Group risk management programme n revised the Group fraud policy as part of its remit to review the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and monitor internal controls n revised the internal audit charter which sets out the framework in which the internal audit function provides services to the Group and reports to the Committee.
38 Corporate governance Corporate governance Audit independence The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups external auditors,  LLP PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
The PwC audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of PwCs own system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and then referred to the Board for approval.
The rotation of audit partners responsibilities within PwC, as required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds: part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Remuneration Committee Stanley Musesengwa Chairman Michael Buzzacott Martin Flower Nigel Turner The Remuneration Committee, which consists of non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Group Chief Executive is normally invited to attend all its meetings.
The terms of reference of the Committee are posted on the Companys website www.
Further details of the Committees activities during the year can be found in the directors remuneration report set out on pages 27 to 36.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report.
Nomination Committee Martin Flower Chairman Michael Buzzacott Mike Humphrey Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner The Nomination Committee consists of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive and is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and succession planning.
It meets on an ad hoc basis and its terms of reference are posted on the Companys website www.
The Committee concluded the search for a new non-executive director to replace David Dunn on his retirement and Nigel Turner was appointed on 1 June 2009.
During the year the Committee maintained its focus on the development of the senior management team.
It also built on the work carried out last year in relation to the layer of management below Board and Group Executive Finance Committee level by reviewing a succession planning exercise carried out with the aim of identifying employees within the Group with the potential to become senior executives.
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate and that all the non-executive directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for the proper performance of their duties.
39 Corporate governance Board and committee evaluation The annual self evaluation exercise was carried out under the supervision of the Chairman to arrive at an assessment of the effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman and each of the committees.
The exercise employed a questionnaire completed by each Board member.
A summary of the results was then presented to the Board for discussion.
The Chairman also discussed the comments separately with individual directors as part of their own appraisals.
The senior independent director discussed the Chairmans performance with the other non-executive directors before feeding back comments to the Chairman.
The outcome will be a continuing focus during 2010 on succession planning for, and the development of, senior personnel.
Other committees The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive.
He utilises a series of committees to assist him in this task.
Group Executive Committee Mike Humphrey Chairman - Group Chief Executive Sean Christie - Group Finance Director David Barraclough - President Asia Pacific Miguel fide Bellis - President Latin America Bryan Dobson - President Global Operations Steve Foots - President Consumer Care Europe Kevin Gallagher - President North America Keith Layden - President Actives & Enterprise Technology Kevin Nutbrown - President Industrial Specialities Europe Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the heads of regional business and operational functions.
It meets quarterly and its remit is responsibility for the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the assessment and control of risk and the prioritisation and allocation of resources.
Finance Committee The Finance Committee meets monthly to review monthly operating results, identify operational and risk issues and examine capital expenditure proposals.
Its members are: Mike Humphrey Chairman - Group Chief Executive Sean Christie - Group Finance Director Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller Treasurer Bryan Dobson - President Global Operations Risk Management Committee Sean Christie Chairman - Group Finance Director David Barraclough - President Asia Pacific Miguel fide Bellis - President Latin America Bryan Dobson - President Global Operations Steve Foots - President Consumer Care Europe Kevin Gallagher - President North America Keith Layden - President Actives & Enterprise Technology Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller Treasurer Kevin Nutbrown - President Industrial Specialities Europe Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel The Risk Management Committee includes all members of the Group Executive Committee and the Finance Committee other than the Group Chief Executive.
Its role is to evaluate, propose policies and monitor processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Routine Business Committee The Routine Business Committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee.
40 Corporate governance Corporate governance Investor relations The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director maintain regular contact with major shareholders and they ensure that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole through the reporting of feedback from shareholder meetings and the provision of brokers reports.
The Board invites the Companys brokers and financial public relations advisers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic and investment environment, Crodas performance, both generally, and in comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are discussed.
The senior independent director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
However, no such meetings were requested during the year.
The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise questions with the members of the Board.
The directors are also available to answer questions after the meeting in a more informal setting.
The annual report and accounts including Notice of AGM are sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Internal control The Code principle C. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance 2005 and in order to discharge this responsibility, the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
In particular there are clear procedures and defined authorities to act for: n capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review n financial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework n comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, under the direction of the Risk Management Committee.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has reviewed its operational effectiveness throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report using a process which involves: n written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible n internal audit work carried out by Deloitte & Touche LLP who report to the Audit Committee n reports from the external auditors.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern The Groups activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives review and the financial position of the Company, its cashflows and liquidity are described in the Financial review.
The financial statements, which appear on pages 44 to 89, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Compliance The information contained in this report demonstrates that, apart from the temporary and minor deviations resulting from the gap between the retirement of David Dunn and the appointment of Nigel Turner, the Company has complied fully with the Code throughout 2009.
41 Corporate governance Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: n select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: n make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: n state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and n prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose details are set out on pages 22 to 23 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: n the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and n the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 11 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board Louise Scott Company Secretary 23 February 2010 42 Corporate governance
