Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance statement 31 This report for shareholders sets out Dairy Crests approach to and at meetings during the year are set out below.
Throughout the compliance with the principles contained in the Combined Code financial year a number of formal Board meetings are held at the on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting site of operational business units.
In 2008 09 the Board visited the Council and explains any departure from its provisions.
As the Groups manufacturing sites at Crudgington Shropshire, Fenstanton 2008 09 financial year commenced after November 2006 but prior Cambridgeshire and Foston Derbyshire.
to 29 June 2008, references to the Combined Code in this report are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June There is a documented schedule of matters reserved to the Board 2006 Code.
This report has been prepared following the main including strategy and management, financial structure and capital, principles of the Code.
Those not referred to in this statement are reporting and controls, Board and committee appointments, executive dealt with elsewhere in the annual report.
In accordance with listing remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance compliance.
10R 2, the relevant parts of this report have been reviewed During 2008 09, the Board received regular briefings upon the Groups by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 106. performance including detailed commentary and analysis and key issues and risks affecting the Groups business.
Reports on Group The Board operations, human resources, governance and regulatory matters Code main principle A.
1: Every company should be headed by an affecting the Group were provided to the Board on a regular and effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of timely basis.
Briefings on market activity, together with the views of the company.
shareholders and analysts on the Company, were also provided to the Board.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover for Dairy Crests Board recognises its responsibility to provide the Directors and Officers and in 2005 the Companys articles were entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within amended to provide that the Company shall indemnify its Directors a framework of prudent and effective controls described below and other Officers out of the assets of the Company to the extent allowing assessment and management of the key issues and permitted by law.
The Board sets Dairy Crests overall strategic direction, reviews management performance and ensures Board committees that the Group has the necessary financial and human resources Summary in place to meet its objectives.
The Board is satisfied that the There are five principal Board committees: the Management Board: necessary controls and resources exist within the Group to enable Audit: Corporate Responsibility: Nomination: and Remuneration.
these responsibilities to be met.
The roles and responsibilities of each of these committees are detailed below.
All the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and The Board also ensures that the principal goal of the Company is to Remuneration Committee members and a majority of Nomination create shareholder value, while having regard to other stakeholder Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors interests and takes responsibility for setting the Companys values under the Code.
The Committees are provided with sufficient and standards.
Accordingly, the long-term interests of shareholders, resources via the Company Secretariat and, where necessary, have together with consideration of the wider community of interests direct access to independent professional advisers to undertake represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and community their duties.
and the environment are factored into the Groups management processes.
They are reinforced through employee participation in Details of Directors attendance at each of the Board meetings and share ownership plans.
Appropriate account is also given to social, Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility environmental and ethical issues within the Companys control and Committees are set out below: risk assessment processes.
The steps taken to achieve these goals Board Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration are communicated to shareholders and other interested parties Committee Responsibility Committee Committee through the Companys External Affairs Director, the Companys No.
of meetings in year 12 3 3 1 2 website www.
co. uk and to employees via the Group Mr M Allen 12 1 intranet and through formal and informal briefings and newsletters.
Mr A Fry 12 2 1 1 2 2 Mr H Mann 11 3 0 1 2 Through formal policies summaries of which are published on the Mr N Monnery 12 3 3 1 2 Companys website the Board seeks to engender a culture where Mr A S N Murray 12 3 business ethics, integrity and fairness are values that all employees Mr M N Oakes resigned 11.12.08 7 endorse and apply in their everyday conduct.
Mr S M D Oliver 12 1 Ms C Piwnica 12 3 3 1 2 During 2008 09, the Company continued its programme of Mr D H Richardson 12 3 3 1 2 Mr M Wilks 12 embedding its core values with employees.
Details of activity 1 undertaken during the year are set out in the Corporate As a result of prior commitments Mr Fry did not attend the Audit Responsibility report on pages 22 to 25.
Further details will Committee meeting on 6 November 2008 or the CR Committee be provided in the CR report which will be published on the meetings on 2 July 2008 and 10 December 2008.
2 Companys website in the summer.
Mr Mann was unable to attend the CR Committee meetings and was unable to attend the Board meeting on 11 December The Board meets at least eight times a year, with additional meetings 2008.
On one occasion this was As he resigned part way through the year, Mr Oakes did not preceded by a Senior Executive strategic review meeting at which attend all Board meetings.
Details of Directors attendance DC08 Corp DC08 Corp Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in31 31 Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in31 31 1 6 09 1 6 09 18:30:10 18:30:10 Our leadership team Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 32 Corporate governance statement continued Management Board appointments and use an external search consultancy and or The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which advertising in relation to Board appointments.
comprises the other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary & General Counsel and the Group Human Resources Director.
During 2008 09, its focus was upon succession planning for the Other Senior Executives, such as the Director of Group Financial Board and it has commenced a suitable search process, including Control and Director of Corporate Development attend by invitation.
the use of external consultants, to identify a successor for David The Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, Richardson, following the announcement in April 2009 that he will for implementing the Groups strategic direction, monitoring the step down from the Board once his successor has been appointed.
performance of the business and its control procedures on a dayto-day basis.
The Remuneration Committee Neil Monnery has chaired the Remuneration Committee for Audit Committee the year ended 31 March 2009.
Its other members have David Richardson continues to be chairman of the Audit Committee been Anthony Fry, Howard Mann, Carole Piwnica and David but has announced that he will step down from the Board once his Richardson.
The Committee has met twice in 2008 09.
Details successor has been appointed.
The other members are Anthony of Directors attendance at meetings during the year are set out Fry, Howard Mann, Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica.
A detailed description of the Committees remit and work Richardson is a chartered accountant.
Consistent with the Smith during 2008 09, including further information on the Companys Guidance, all members of the Committee are independent Nonapplication of the principles of the Code, is contained in the Executive Directors.
David Richardson is deemed by the Board to Remuneration Report which was approved by the Board on be the Audit Committee financial expert with recent and relevant pages 38 to 44.
Its terms of reference comply with the Code, are financial experience and independent for the purposes of the available on request and are published on the Groups website.
All of the Committee members have extensive commercial The full terms and conditions of appointment of the Companys experience see page 30.
Further information on the Companys Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at its registered application of the Code and on the Audit Committee and its work office, and a summary is available on the Groups website.
The during the year is set out in its report on pages 35 and 36. chairman of the Committee provided a report to the Board following each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee was established by Other committees the Board in year ended 31 March 2008 under the chairmanship of The Groups Strategy and Policy Leadership Team, chaired by Carole Piwnica.
The Committee, whose other members are Anthony the Chief Executive, which consists of executive Board members Fry, Howard Mann, Neil Monnery and David Richardson, oversees and Senior Executives responsible for the key business units the Groups CR programme and ensures that key social, ethical and also meets regularly.
The Strategy and Policy Leadership Team environmental risks are identified, assessed and prioritised accordingly.
is used to assist the Executive Directors in the execution of their Terms of reference for the Committee are available on request and duties by helping to shape and influence the Groups strategy and are published on the Groups website.
During the year 2008 2009 the policy.
Through its diverse membership representing the various Committee has focussed on strategy and commitment across four constituencies of the Group it helps to ensure that key stakeholders key areas: Workplace, Marketplace, Community and Environment.
A are consulted and have the opportunity to input into the design report on the Committees activities during the year 2008 09 is set out and preparation of the Groups strategy, policy and key business at pages 22 to 25. decisions.
Within each of the Groups commercial divisions there are operating boards responsible for monitoring the performance Nomination Committee of those business units.
To ensure consistency of approach and The members of the Nomination Committee are Howard Mann, cross-learning, members of the Strategy and Policy Leadership the Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Committee, Team also chair Group leadership teams responsible for the Anthony Fry, Neil Monnery, Simon Oliver, Carole Piwnica and David following areas: finance: information technology systems: supply Richardson.
The Committee meets as and when required.
During the chain: human resources: innovation: marketing: sales: vision & year it met once and details of Directors attendance at that meeting values: health and safety.
Reports are provided from these various during the year are set out above.
Company executives and advisers leadership teams, as appropriate, to the Management Board, the attend meetings by invitation only.
The Committee updates the Strategy and Policy Leadership Team and the Board.
Board and makes recommendations as and when required.
Chairman and chief executive The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available Code main principle A.
2: There should be a clear division of on request and are published on the Groups website.
In essence, responsibilities at the head of the company between the running this Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered making its recommendations to the Board.
It is also responsible, powers of decision.
in conjunction with the Chairman of the Group, for evaluating the commitments of individual Directors and the balance of skills, There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of knowledge and experience on the Board.
It also ensures that Chairman who serves in a non-executive capacity and Chief the membership of the Board and its principal committees are Executive which is set out in writing and which has been approved refreshed periodically.
Where appropriate, the Committee will by the Board.
prepare an outline of the role and capabilities required for particular DC08 Corp DC08 Corp Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in32 32 Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in32 32 1 6 09 1 6 09 18:48:44 18:48:44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 33 Board balance Training and briefings are available to all Directors on appointment Code main principle A.
3: The board should include a balance of and thereafter Directors keep abreast of the Groups business executive and non-executive directors and in particular independent through meetings with and presentations by senior management non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of below Board level and through site visits to operating divisions.
individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
During 2008 09, as part of the process of enhancing the NonExecutive Directors knowledge of the business, various visits and As at the date of this report, the Board comprises three Executive presentations from management teams took place.
Directors and six Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
Simon Oliver is Non-Executive Chairman and Mark Allen, Chief All Non-Executive Directors undergo induction programmes upon Executive: Alastair Murray, Group Finance Director: Martyn Wilks, appointment and have full access to management and to the internal Executive Managing Director Foods : Anthony Fry, Non-Executive and external auditors.
The induction process includes the provision of Director: Howard Mann, Non-Executive and Senior Independent background materials on the Company, together with information on Director and chairman of the Nomination Committee: Neil Monnery, the responsibilities of Directors under the Listing Rules, briefings by Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Remuneration key Senior Executives at and below Board level and the Companys Committee: Carole Piwnica, Non-Executive Director and chairman Head of Internal Audit and site visits to the main operating locations.
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee: and David Richardson An overview of the business is provided, along with information on is Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
its financial performance and the Risk Register.
The Non-Executive Directors variously receive independent training on technical During the year, on 11 December 2008, Martin Oakes resigned as accounting and other governance related matters from professional an Executive Director from the Board.
service providers and institutions and bulletins from the Group on developments in the dairy sector generally.
Biographies of each of the current Directors, their responsibilities and principal Board committee memberships can be found on page 30.
All Directors individually, and each of the Board Committees, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretariat and During 2008 09, all the Non-Executive Directors confirmed to the Secretary.
They all receive from the Company Secretariat a regular the Board that they had sufficient time available to fulfil their report on corporate governance issues.
There are also procedures obligations as directors of the Group and, should any individuals in place enabling Directors in the furtherance of their duties to seek position change, that they would inform the Board.
Details of the independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Chairmans other significant professional commitments are included in his biography page 30.
Performance evaluation Code main principle A.
6: The board should undertake a formal and Following review of the provisions of the Code by the Nomination rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committee and the Board, the Board considers all the Non committees and individual directors.
Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman who was independent on appointment, to be independent.
The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual Directors, its own performance and of Board Committees.
The evaluation Appointments to the Board process is designed to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
4: There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to Individual Director performance is usually reviewed as follows: the board.
Each Director completes a self-assessment questionnaire and Appointments to the Board and its committees are reserved for the Chairman then meets separately with each Director in order the Board, based on recommendations from the Nomination to appraise their individual performance and effectiveness and Committee see above.
The appointment and removal of the to identify any training requirements.
Secretary is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Appraisal of the Chairmans performance is conducted by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Information and professional development Non-Executive Director taking into account the views Code main principle A.
5: The board should be supplied in a timely of the Executive Directors using completed assessment manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate questionnaires.
to enable it to discharge its duties.
All directors should receive The Chief Executive appraises the performance of the other induction on joining the board and should regularly update and Executive Directors with regard to their management and refresh their skills and knowledge.
operational responsibilities, in accordance with the Companys normal performance and development review procedures.
Robin Miller, who was Company Secretary during the year, was responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters, Appraisals were performed for the Directors for their performance under the stewardship of the Chairman, ensuring Board procedures in 2008 09.
The Chairman reported to the Board on the outcome were followed and applicable rules and regulations were of the appraisals, in relation to the Boards overall effectiveness, complied with.
During 2008 09, Mr Miller ensured that Board and at its meeting on 15 May 2009.
A summary of the completed Board Committee papers containing accurate, timely and clear self-assessment questionnaires indicated that Board processes information, were generally circulated at least seven days before and frequency of meetings were satisfactory, that the level of meetings.
Periodic updates were circulated as and when required.
information provided was good and that Board relationships were DC08 Corp DC08 Corp Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in33 33 Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in33 33 2 6 09 2 6 09 16:32:26 16:32:26 Our leadership team Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 34 Corporate governance statement continued strong with open debate on all subjects.
The Board also reviewed Risk management and internal controls the performance of its Board Committees and it was agreed Code main principle C. 2: The board should maintain a sound that the practice of all Non-Executive Directors except for the system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment Chairman being members of all Board Committees apart from the and the companys assets.
Management Board was effective in ensuring good communication and awareness of all relevant issues.
Introduction The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring a sound system The Senior Independent Director has led the process to evaluate of internal control and risk management.
The schedule of written the performance of the Chairman.
Assessment questionnaires have matters reserved to the Board ensures that the Directors are been completed on this by the other Board members.
During the responsible for the control of, amongst other matters, all significant year, the Non-Executive Directors met alone and with the Chairman strategic, financial and organisational risks.
An overview of some of the principal risks surrounding the Group Re-election is contained in the business review section of the Directors report Code main principle A.
7: All directors should be submitted for at pages 45 to 47.
To manage these and other commercial and re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory operational risks the Group has an established programme that performance.
The board should ensure planned and progressive assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and refreshing of the board.
mitigate business, financial, operational and compliance risks on a continuous basis.
The Board views management of risk as integral All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first to good business practice.
The programme is designed to support Annual General Meeting AGM following appointment and managements decision making and to improve the reliability of thereafter to re-election at least every three years.
The risk management process operates articles require the retirement of one third of the Directors who throughout the Group, being applied to the main business divisions are subject to retirement by rotation at each AGM, however, if the and corporate functions.
number of Directors eligible for retirement by rotation at any given AGM is less than three, one Director must retire by rotation.
Details Internal controls of the Directors retiring by rotation at the 2009 AGM are set out at The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system page 48 in the Directors report.
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness to support its strategy and objectives.
The systems As detailed above under performance evaluation the contribution of internal control are based on an ongoing process of identifying, that each of the candidates seeking re-election by shareholders evaluating and seeking to manage key risks and includes the risk makes to the Group was evaluated.
This was a particularly rigorous management processes set out above.
The systems of internal evaluation in respect of the Senior Independent Director, Howard control were in place throughout the year and up to the date of Mann, as he will have completed more than six years service approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The as a Director at the date of the AGM in 2009.
The Nomination effectiveness of these systems has been periodically reviewed Committees conclusion was that, having regard to the roles that by the Audit Committee and the Board, in accordance with the they perform and individual input and contribution they make, Turnbull Committee Guidance On Internal Control revised October each candidates performance more than justified nomination for 2005. re-election by shareholders.
The Board unanimously endorses the views of the Nomination Committee on all Directors seeking reControl systems election.
In particular, it was felt that Howard Manns nomination The main components of the organisation for internal control are for re-election would help provide Board continuity, in view of the summarised below.
Their foundation is in the considerable value appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors in 2007. that the Group places, throughout its activities, on seeking to ensure that employees are of the highest quality and integrity.
The Code is clear at provision A.
2.2 that the Chairman should Formal control is exercised through a management structure, be independent on appointment: however, footnote 2 to Code which includes clear lines of responsibility and documented provision A.
3.1 is explicit that thereafter, the test of independence delegations of authority from the Board.
Processes underpinning is not appropriate to the Chairman.
Notwithstanding, at its meeting the financial reporting systems are managed and monitored by line in May 2007, the Nomination Committee resolved that because and functional management and regular reporting.
Separately, the the Chairman would have completed more than nine years service effectiveness of these internal controls is reviewed by an Internal as a Director as at the date of the AGM in 2008, in accordance Audit function that operates on a Group wide basis.
It reports its with the spirit of the Code he should stand for re-election annually.
results to the executive management team and directly to the Audit Accordingly, Mr Oliver will retire from the Board again at the 2009 Committee.
These controls and processes have been in place for AGM and offer himself for re-election.
The Nomination Committee the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual has recommended that Mr Oliver be proposed for re-election Report and Accounts.
and the Board supports this recommendation and is satisfied that his performance continues to be effective and demonstrates Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through an appropriate commitment to the role, including devoting adequate organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility time for Board and committee meetings and other duties.
and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives oral and written presentations to maintain control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance DC08 Corp DC08 Corp Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in34 34 Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in34 34 2 6 09 2 6 09 14:41:03 14:41:03 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 35 matters.
The Management Board is responsible for monitoring Members financial performance, assessing capital expenditure proposals, The Audit Committee met three times in 2008 09.
Details of agreeing media spend, senior management appointments and Directors attendance at meetings during the year are set out at page embedding risk management and controls in the Group.
The chairman of the Audit Committee provided a report on the Managing Director of each Division, in conjunction with senior work of the Committee and any significant issues that may have management, operates and maintains controls appropriate to its own arisen at the Board meeting following each Committee meeting.
activities which conform to Group policies and procedures.
Attendees at meetings Financial reporting there is an annual budget presented to and The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chairman of the approved by the Board which includes consideration of the major Group and other senior management attend Committee meetings business risks, an assessment of the likelihood of crystallisation and by invitation of the Committee.
Representatives of the Groups actions in place to mitigate these risks.
Each Division is required external auditors and the head of Group Internal Audit, also attend to report monthly to the Board on financial performance.
Monthly these meetings by invitation.
In 2008 09, the external and internal financial information includes trading results, balance sheet and auditors attended all meetings, had direct access to the Committee cash flow information by business Division with comparison against during the meetings and time was also set aside for them to have prior year and budget.
Each Division periodically reassesses its private discussions jointly and independently with the Committee, forecast for the financial year.
Annually, a strategic plan is also in the absence of management.
presented to the Board, which reviews financial projections for the following three years and includes consideration of current and Audit Committee compliance with the Code likely future strategic, operational and market environment matters.
The Audit Committees terms of reference available on request and published on the Groups website comply with the Code.
Business Division reviews on a quarterly basis, each During 2008 09, the formal calendar of items which were reviewed business Division is required to complete a self-assessment at each Audit Committee meeting and within each annual cycle controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business embraced the Code requirements to: unit management.
In addition, the Audit Committee and the Management Board receive copies of all Group Internal Audit monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial plans.
They also receive reports from the external auditors on the performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
judgements and any disclosures contained in them: review the Companys internal financial controls and its Control of significant risks internal control and risk management systems and to make As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing recommendations to the Board: process, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance On monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Internal Control revised October 2005, to identify, evaluate and Audit function: manage significant risks faced by the Group.
This process includes make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the the consideration of a register identifying and evaluating the Groups shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to significant risks and related financial, operational and compliance the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external controls.
With oversight from the Board and Audit Committee which auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of uses the services of the Group Internal Audit function, individual engagement of the external auditors: members of the Groups senior management team are responsible for review and monitor the external auditors independence and the ownership and mitigation of significant risks.
The Audit Committee objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking and the Board review the identified key risks, changes in their status or into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory the composition of the risk matrix regularly.
requirements: and, review the Groups policy on the engagement of the external Function of controls auditors to supply non-audit services.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including that of its former joint venture Yoplait Audit Committee activities Dairy Crest Limited, its stake in which the Company sold in An overview of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee during March 2009.
The systems of internal control are designed to 2008 09 is described below.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute The Audit Committee determined that it was satisfied that the assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws independence of the external auditors had been maintained, having and regulations.
taken into account the external auditors written representations and the Committees own enquiries.
Report of the Audit Committee Code main principle C. 3: The board should establish formal and The Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors audit scope, transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the plans and materiality levels and the resources proposed to execute financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an the plans.
Having done so, the Committee approved the terms appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
of engagement and the audit fees.
The Committee also reviewed the findings of the external auditors, their management letters on internal financial controls and audit representation letters.
DC08 Corp DC08 Corp Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in35 35 Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in35 35 2 6 09 2 6 09 17:09:13 17:09:13 Our leadership team Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 36 Corporate governance statement continued The Audit Committee also assessed the qualifications, expertise satisfied that these arrangements allow for appropriate independent and resources and independence of the external auditor and the investigation of any such matters and suitable follow-up actions.
effectiveness of the audit process.
Ernst & Young LLP was first appointed as external auditor to the Company in 1996.
There Communication with investors are no contractual restrictions on the Company with regard to its Code main principle D. 1: There should be a dialogue with appointment.
The Audit Committee has not considered it necessary shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
since its initial appointment to require the firm competitively to The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a tender for the audit work.
In the light of the assessments and satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
review undertaken and having considered a recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys and Introduction Groups external auditors, the Board endorsed the Committees The Group believes it is important to explain business developments recommendation which was approved by shareholders in July 2008. and financial results to its shareholders and to understand any shareholder concerns, and that suitable arrangements are in place Where the external auditors have provided non-audit services the to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of Group Finance Director has obtained prior authorisation from the major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director chairman of the Committee to instruct Ernst & Young LLP to carry have primary responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported out this work.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, non-audit work by the Companys External Affairs Director who, among other matters, undertaken by Ernst & Young was principally advice on tax.
A organises presentations for analysts and institutional investors and holds statement of fees for services from the external auditors in relation meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial to 2008 09 is set out at note three to the Financial Statements on performance and investment activities immediately after the full year and page 64.
Having undertaken a review of the nature and amount interim results announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional of non-audit related work, the Audit Committee has satisfied itself shareholders are also available on the Companys website.
All the that the services undertaken during 2008 09 did not prejudice the Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior auditors independence.
Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are so required.
Further financial and business information The Audit Committee met prior to the Board meetings at which the is available on the Investor Centre section of the Companys website.
interim Financial Statements and the Annual Report and Financial Statements were approved.
The Committee reviewed significant Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the accounting policies, financial reporting issues and judgements and, Board to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors have a balanced in conducting this review, considered reports from the external understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
auditors, financial management and Internal Audit.
This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance The Committee considered authority limits: the adequacy of the Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic Groups accounting systems and internal controls: the Groups reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback Risk Register and its compliance with the Code.
It reviewed the from the Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
Groups treasury operations including, net debt levels, facility headroom, compliance with banking covenants, Group pension The principal method of communication with private shareholders is scheme funding arrangements, and the level and appropriateness through the Annual and Interim Reports, the AGM and through the of hedging arrangements.
During the year the Committee reviewed and considered reports Annual general meeting from the head of Group Internal Audit including findings from the Code main principle D. 2: The board should use the AGM to Internal Audit function concerning internal controls and the status communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
of the correction of any weaknesses in internal controls identified by the internal and the external auditors.
In addition, the Audit A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM Committee reviewed and approved the remit, organisation, plans to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Groups activities.
and resources of the Groups Internal Audit function: and, carried Arrangements are made for all Executive Directors, the Chairman, out a review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the remaining met the head of that function without management being present.
Non-Executive Directors and the chairmen of Board Committees to attend the AGM and to be available to answer shareholders The Committee reviewed its written terms of reference and, in questions.
Unfortunately Mr Anthony Fry was unable to attend the revising these, took account of the latest changes to relevant AGM in July 2008 as a result of his attendance at a family funeral legislation, regulation and best practice.
Notice of the AGM is, in accordance with the applicable Companies Act and the Companys articles, either posted in hard Whistle Blowing copy to shareholders or posted on the Companys website at least The Audit Committee reviews the arrangements by which 21 days before the date of the AGM.
Resolutions are proposed for employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about each substantial separate issue and details of the proxy voting on possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other each resolution are announced at the AGM after the results of the respects, under the Groups whistle blowing policy.
The Company show of hands is known and are posted on the Companys website Secretary leads the whistle blowing team.
The Audit Committee is following the conclusion of the meeting.
DC08 Corp DC08 Corp Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in36 36 Gov pp31-37 27-5-09. in36 36 2 6 09 2 6 09 18:39:30 18:39:30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 37 The Company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of proxies lodged on each resolution.
It also publishes the level of votes for and against resolutions and the number of abstentions.
The Company ensures that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially discrete subject and the Company does propose a resolution at the AGM relating to the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Access to information Electronic communication continues to become the principal medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information and reports.
Recognising this, Annual Reviews, Annual Reports and Financial Statements and Interim Reports are published on the Companys website.
Pursuant to changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006, the Company sought shareholder approval at the 2007 AGM, subject to certain requirements, to communicate electronically with its shareholders.
Other information which shareholders and third parties are entitled to access is made available in accordance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
In future, where company law permits, the Company intends notifying shareholders of the electronic publication of notices of meetings on its website.
Compliance with the provisions contained within the Combined Code Throughout the year the Group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code except that: no meetings were requested or held between shareholders and the Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director during the year: and, for reasons explained above, one of the Non-Executive Directors was unable to attend the AGM in July 2008.
Approval The Corporate Governance Statement and the Audit Committee report contained in it have been approved by the Board.
