Corporate Governance 42 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 64 describe how the Board has applied the principles set out in the Combined Code the Code issued by the Financial Services Authority in June 2008.
The Code is part of the Listing Rules and applied to the Company throughout the year.
The Company has substantially complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year, except where the Board has determined that they are inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the Company.
The areas in which the Company has not applied the Code during the year essentially arise from the composition of the Board and are summarised as follows: Provision Area Details of non-compliance and mitigating circumstances A.
1.3 Board Evaluation The non-executive Directors did not meet as a group without the Chairman since his performance was assessed by the Remuneration Committee without the Chairman being present.
A3.2 Composition Less than half of the Board are independent non-executive directors of the Board A3.3 Composition The Board has not identified a senior independent non-executive Director since it believes that to of the Board identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a unitary body, as this Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
A4.1 Composition Independent non-Executive directors do not comprise a majority of the Committees members of the Nominations Committee since Mr Balsemo is the only independent non-executive Director appointed.
Nevertheless the Board believes that the Committee operates well.
A7.2 Re-election Mr Hemingway is a non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years but is not of Directors subject to annual re-election.
The Board considers that the existing practice, which is to subject non-executive Directors to re-election at least every three years, complies with Company law and with the Articles and works well.
B1.6 Service contracts and The service contracts of Messrs Morgan and Dacre exceed the one year recommended compensation in the Code.
The explanation is given in the Remuneration Report on page xx.
B2.1 Composition The Committee comprises one independent non-executive director, rather than two as set of the Remuneration Committee out in the Code.
C3.1 Composition The Committee comprises two independent non-executive directors rather than three as of the Audit Committee set out in the Code.
In addition, The Chairman was not independent on appointment Code provision A2.2.
The division of responsibilities between the Groups commercial strategy.
Its The Board the Executive Chairman and the Chief specific responsibilities are set out in a The Company is headed by a Board which Executive is understood and works well.
schedule of matters reserved to the Board comprises a balance of seven executive The Chairmans role is to lead the Board which is published on the Companys web Directors, including the Chairman and and oversee the Companys operations site at www.
co. uk corporate Chief Executive, and seven non-executive and strategy.
The Chief Executives role is governance.
Biographical details of each of to manage the Company, develop strategy the Directors are set out on page 37.
The and ensure its successful implementation.
The Board met six times during the Board has been progressively refreshed 2008 09 financial year, all of which were in recent years with several appointments, The Board normally meets regularly five regular meetings, attended by all including four new independent Directors.
times a year and at such other times as Directors, except that Messrs Fallon and are necessary.
It discusses and approves Dunstone were each unable to attend one of them.
Individual attendance by Directors is set out on page 43.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance 43 training as is considered necessary, both Company Secretary Number of on appointment and at any subsequent The Company Secretary, Mr Jennings, is meetings Number time.
There is an agreed procedure for eligible of meetings responsible for advising the Board to attend attended Directors to take independent through the Chairman on all governance professional advice at the Companys issues.
All Directors have access to the expense, if necessary.
advice and services of the Secretary.
Executive Directors The Viscount 6 6 Election and re-election Rothermere Nominations Committee The Companys Articles of Association MWH Morgan 6 6 The Nominations Committee comprises require that a Director appointed by the three Directors: the Viscount Rothermere J P Williams 6 6 Board must stand for election at the next its chairman, Mr Hemingway and Mr D M M Dutton 6 6 Annual General Meeting.
The Deputy Finance Director, P M Dacre 6 6 Directors are subject to re-election every Mr Perry, is secretary to the Committee.
P M Fallon 6 5 The Chief Executive attends most K J Beatty 6 6 meetings at the invitation of the The terms and conditions of appointment Committee.
of the non-executive Directors are Non-executive non-independent Directors available for inspection at the Registered The Committee met four times during the J G Hemingway 6 6 Office of the Company during usual year and all meetings were attended by all S M Gray 5 5 business hours.
Individual attendance I G Park 2 2 by members is set out below: Board evaluation T S Gillespie 6 6 The Board has undertaken its annual DH Nelson 1 1 Number of evaluation of its own performance and meetings Number that of its individual Directors.
It reviewed eligible of meetings Independent non-executive Directors to attend attended its performance by reference to the C W Dunstone 6 5 schedule of matters reserved for it.
The The Viscount 4 4 Rothermere F P Balsemo 6 6 evaluation process took the form of a questionnaire sent to each Director, J G Hemingway 4 4 D J Verey 6 6 seeking their views on progress made on N W Berry 6 6 F P Balsemo 4 4 vision and strategy: Board meetings and communications: fellow Directors: The Committee reviews the structure, size The Board believes that four nonconsideration of Directors views: and has and composition of the Board and makes executive Directors may be considered to solicited other comments.
The Chairman recommendations to the Board on any be independent under the Code, namely reported the consensus view on changes.
During the year it nominated Mr Messrs Dunstone, Balsemo, Verey and performance to the Board at its meeting Nelson to the Board in succession to Mr Berry.
in September, enabling it to conclude that Gray.
Mr Nelson has been a member of it had been effective in the year under the Finance Committee since November Messrs Hemingway and Gillespie are not review.
No changes to procedures were 2006 and has attended the Audit regarded by the Board as independent judged necessary.
The under the Code because they have advised Committee determined, from his the Company over many years: nor is Mr Board Committees performance on those Committees and Nelson because he is an advisor to the The Board has established Nominations, from his role as an advisor to the Chairman.
Nevertheless the Board Remuneration, Audit, Risk and Corporate Chairman, that he had the right balance of believes that these non-executive Social Responsibility Committees with skills, knowledge and experience, needed Directors make an important contribution mandates to deal with specific aspects of for the Board.
External advice was not to its deliberations and have invaluable its business.
The remits of these taken, nor advertising required in this experience of the Company, its business committees are published on the instance.
Details of the membership of these The Committee continued to review Information and committees are given on page 45.
Each succession planning for both executive professional development committee reports to the Board at every and non-executive Directors.
It has also Procedures have been established to regular meeting.
In September and assessed the most appropriate method of ensure that the Board receives timely and November 2009, the Board carried out a evaluating Directors performance.
appropriate information both for its review of the performance of its meetings and regularly between committees and concluded that they had meetings.
All Directors are offered such been effective in the year.
com 2009 Corporate Governance 44 Corporate Governance Continued and uncertainties relating to the business committees, including financial, Relations with shareholders activities of the Group.
The risk operational and compliance controls and The Company maintains a regular management process consists of the risk management systems as follows: programme of contact with its identification, evaluation and control of The central Risk and Assurance function institutional shareholders.
In the past risks, which could threaten the carries out internal audit activities across year, this has included meetings in achievement of the Groups strategic, the Group.
It operates under an internal London, Scotland and the U. S. A. operational and financial objectives, as audit charter which covers: the purposes well as the active management of and objectives of the Groups internal Non-executive Directors are kept opportunities.
The processes described audit function: its authority and scope: informed of the views of institutional below were in place throughout the year.
independence issues: standards of shareholders by the regular distribution of professional practice, performance analysts reports and feedback is provided The Group operates on a divisional basis monitoring, planning and reporting.
with each of the divisions described on department also coordinates with a pages 12 and 13 of the Annual Report number of the divisions who undertake All shareholders are welcome to attend having considerable autonomy as regards control reviews on companies within their the Annual General Meeting, of which its operation and establishment of control divisions.
Following each review, a formal twenty working days notice is given, systems.
Overseeing the divisional report is issued to divisional management where they have the opportunity to speak structure is a central management with the audit findings and, managements to Directors.
At each Audit Committee functions are undertaken centrally, meeting, the Head of Assurance, Mr In the interests of transparency and to notably newsprint buying, insurance, Ashby, reports on the internal audit assist private shareholders, the Company treasury, tax, pensions, and risk and activity across the Group, including posts all announcements and general assurance including internal audit.
progress against completion of the annual presentations given to analysts and assurance plan and a summary of the institutions on its corporate web site.
Operating businesses within the Group findings of assurance reviews undertaken.
Shareholders and others interested in the are required to confirm annually their Group are encouraged to use the site and compliance with Group accounting to email questions which they might have Risk Committee policies and financial reporting guidelines.
The Risk Committee gives the Board Questions to particular Directors should assurance on risk management issues Divisional and subsidiary company boards be addressed through the Secretary.
The process for the regularly review relevant and timely management of significant risks is financial information that is produced undertaken by the Risk Committee and it Internal controls and from the management information accords with the Turnbull Guidance on management of risk systems operated across the Group.
This internal control, appended to the Code.
The Board has overall responsibility for is supported by a framework of budgets Over the course of the past year the Risk the Groups system of internal control.
that are approved at a divisional level by Committee has considered the key risks This system is designed to provide the Finance Committee.
Variance analysis pertaining to all divisions and head office reasonable assurance of the safeguarding of actual results versus budget and functions within the business as well as of assets and shareholders investment forecast is undertaken regularly the key risks which affect the Group, and the reliability of financial information.
Any such system can, however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, The Group does not maintain common The Committee, comprises Messrs assurance of these matters.
The Directors detailed accounting or operations Morgan, its chairman, Williams and confirm that they have reviewed the manuals because of the diverse Dutton, Mr Verey from 31st July before effectiveness of the Groups system of operations carried out by its divisions, that Mr Gray and Mr Kass, the legal internal control for the period up to the though guidance is issued from the director of A&N Media.
Mr Verey provides date of the approval of the Accounts.
Where applicable, divisions a non-executive perspective to the review Board has not identified any significant maintain their own manuals.
A number of of risk management processes within the failings or weaknesses during this review.
the divisions also undertake regular Group, as well as providing a direct link to control review work as part of their the Audit Committee.
The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, control process.
weighing opportunities for potential gain In reviewing the effectiveness of the The Committee met four times during the against threats to overall business system of internal control the Board has year and all meetings were attended by all objectives and profitability.
Senior considered material controls including serving members.
Individual attendance management addresses the opportunities those undertaken through its by members is set out on page 45.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance 45 Members of the Risk Committee also The Committee comprises four nonNumber of maintain direct links with each of the main executive directors: Messrs Verey its meetings Number divisions through attendance at divisional chairman from 31st July, Hemingway, eligible of meetings to attend attended board meetings as directors of these Berry and Nelson.
The Committee reports to the appointed on 1st July and Mr Gray stood MWH Morgan 4 4 Board after each of its meetings to assist down as chairman on the date of his JP Williams 4 4 the Board in its determination of the retirement from the Board on 31st July.
DMM Dutton 4 4 overall effectiveness of the system of The Code recommends that an audit H Kass 4 4 internal control and risk management committee should comprise at least three DJ Verey 1 1 more widely.
members, all of whom should be independent non-executive Directors.
SM Gray 3 3 Only Messrs Verey and Berry are Audit Committee The head of the Groups risk function, considered to be independent under the The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Mr Page, is Secretary to the Committee.
Nevertheless the Board believes Board, has responsibility for the review of that the Committee operates financial risk management and of internal The Risk Committee considers risk independently.
Members qualifications financial controls, as these directly relate registers prepared by each of the divisions are set out in their biographies on page 37. to the quality of financial reporting.
In of the Group and by central functions, on a The Board is satisfied that Mr Nelson, addition, the Committee is mandated to: rotational basis, in general reviewing a senior partner of a firm of chartered division and central function at each accountants, and Mr Verey, the Committee review all public financial statements meeting.
These reports identify inherent chairman, have recent and relevant of the Company and of the Group, strategic and operational business risks financial experience.
The Company including the half year and annual and describe the controls in place to Secretary, Mr Jennings, also a Chartered financial statements, before such manage those risks.
The Committee also Accountant, is secretary to the Committee.
statements are submitted to the Board: embarked on a project to improve the quality and formality of risk management The Audit Committee met four times consider any appointment of external across the Group by embedding the DMGT during the year and all meetings were auditors to Group companies, to review risk management model into the operating attended by all serving members, except audit fees and to consider any divisions.
The Committee considers the that Mr Hemingway was unable to attend questions of resignation or dismissal of Group risk register a consolidation of one of them.
Individual attendance by auditors: divisional and central function risk members is set out below: registers with Group-wide risks overlaid monitor and review the resources and annually.
In addition, the Committee effectiveness of internal audit Number of reviews specific risk management issues meetings Number including approval of the appointment eligible of meetings and topics for consideration across the and removal of the Head of Assurance : to attend attended Group.
This year the Committee has 4 4 D J Verey focused on the following risks: fraud, agree the internal audit programme for information security considered at a J G Hemingway 4 4 the forthcoming year: and Risk Committee sponsored workshop N W Berry 4 4 for senior management : pandemic risk: to consider a summary of Group 4 4 D H Nelson and again on business continuity and internal audit reports and such S M Gray 3 3 disaster recovery planning In addition individual reports as the Committee the Committee aimed at ensuring that sees fit and managements response to The Finance Director attends all meetings the business conduct of its employees is any recommendations, and to monitor and the Chief Executive most meetings by appropriate to, and in accordance with, the the progress of any required actions.
The Committee also monitors developments in relevant The Committee also considers significant The Committee has implemented the legislation and regulations to consider the financial reporting issues, approves any procedures set out in the Smith Guidance impact these might have on the Group and changes to Group accounting policies and to the Code which are within its control.
It on its system of internal control.
reviews a summary of recommendation reviews the Groups policy on whistle letters to management prepared by the blowing.
Groups external auditors following their audit procedures.
In addition, the Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors, together with approval of their remuneration.
As part of its role in ensuring the effectiveness of www.
com 2009 Corporate Governance 46 Corporate Governance Continued the audit process, the Committee also Procedures exist to monitor the the Board conducted its own review of the undertakes an annual assessment of the independence of the external auditors and Committees performance and confirmed qualifications, expertise and resources of include a policy on employment of former that the Committee had fulfilled its the external auditors.
There is also a policy on obligations and been effective in the year the provision of non-audit services with under review.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the which the Groups head office and each Groups external auditors incumbents division complies.
The choice of firm is Euromoney Institutional Investor plc is since the last audit tender in 2001 is kept normally determined on the basis of subject to the requirements of the Code in under annual review, and, if satisfactory, professional expertise and its own right.
As disclosed in its latest the Committee will recommend the competitiveness.
The Group may engage annual report, it has in place its own reappointment of the audit firm.
The the external auditors to perform auditsystem of internal control and risk appointment of Deloitte followed a formal related work, accountancy advice and management processes which forms part tender process undertaken in 2001 and, corporate tax services.
Non-audit of the Groups overall framework of rather than adopting a policy on tendering services in other areas are decided on control.
The joint ventures and associates frequency, the annual review of the their merits and are put out to tender of the Group are not included in the effectiveness of the external audit is where the amounts in question are Groups system of internal control supplemented by a periodic significant.
The external auditors are described above.
comprehensive reassessment by the excluded from the following areas: where Committee.
Such a reassessment was they are auditing their own work: where a On behalf of the Board performed this year, as with many mutuality of interest is created: or where suppliers, and having received assurances the external auditor would be put in the on the continued quality of the audit, the role of advocate for the Company.
Committee determined to recommend the reappointment of the incumbent firm.
As Non-audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP in N D Jennings, FCA the appointment of the auditors is for one 2009 amounted to 2.3 million, compared Secretary year only, being subject to annual approval to 1.8 million the previous year, reflecting 4th December, 2009 at the Companys AGM, there is no the continuing extent of their involvement contractual commitment to the current in the restructuring of Northcliffe Media.
audit firm and as such the Committee may undertake an audit tender at any time at During the year, the Committee received its discretion.
reports from management on the status of the finance systems within A&N Media, In performing its review, the Committee on Going concern and the financial evaluated the adequacy of the audit firms consequences for DMGT of various key processes and controls in certain key economic downturn scenarios, on the areas including, but not limited to: Companys response to the Financial Reporting Councils key questions for arrangements for ensuring audit committees and on developments in independence and objectivity, including international financial reporting standards.
the rotation of key audit partners: The Committee also reviewed the annual appropriateness of the planned audit internal audit plan, summaries of reports scope and its execution: received and reviewed the effectiveness and resources of the Groups internal the robustness and perceptiveness of audit function.
In September, it carried out the auditors in their handling of the key an annual review of its terms of reference accounting and audit judgements: and and of its effectiveness and concluded that it did not need to recommend to the the quality of their reporting.
Board any substantive changes to its remit or operations.
In November 2009, Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2009
