Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Internal control The Board has delegated periodic review of the system of financial The Board confirms that during 2009 and up to the date of approval internal control to the Audit Committee which has reported its of the Annual Report and Accounts it has maintained and updated the conclusions to the Board during the year.
The Board has also consulted procedures necessary to implement the Internal Control: Guidance for the Audit Committee, during the year, on other internal control matters.
Directors on the Combined Code and that these procedures are still in The Audit Committee believes that the Companys external auditors place.
adopt an objective and impartial approach to the audit of the Group and that this is in no way influenced by the extent of non audit work The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups undertaken by the Companys external auditors during the year, as system of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to disclosed in note 6 to the Group Financial Statements.
Such work in meet the particular needs of the organisation concerned and manage 2009, principally related to due diligence undertaken in connection the risks to which it is exposed.
The delegation of authority structure with the Bow Valley corporate transaction.
The Board will continue which facilitates management of the international business units to carefully consider how such advice is sourced in future.
The Audit continues to operate efficiently.
By their nature such systems can Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance, against but has decided that, given the size of the Group and the system of material misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for controls in place, it is not required at present.
The Audit Committee identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
will continue to review this decision annually particularly in light of the The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view Groups further expansion.
to providing effective internal control are as follows: Annual review and assessment Management structure The Board undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal Groups system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes a review of the Audit Committees assessment Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific of the system of financial internal control.
A review took place in aspects of the Groups affairs.
The Executive Directors together with December 2009 and addressed internal control issues generally and, key senior executives constitute the management committee, which more specifically, financial, operational and compliance controls and meets regularly, to discuss day-to-day operational matters.
The review included reports from, and interviews Panel structure has been set up for Egypt and Norway, with each with, key operating personnel.
panel comprising three members, including two Executive Directors, and the Country Manager.
The panel will meet at least quarterly, or on The Board will continue to review and report on the effectiveness of the a more frequent ad-hoc basis as required, to review performance and Groups system of internal controls as detailed earlier on this page and expenditure items beyond the delegation of authority of the relevant the Audit Committee will review annually the need for an internal audit Country Manager.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high Directors and auditors responsibilities recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality The responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are set out in the personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Report of the Directors on pages 45 and 46 and in the independent Identification of business risks Auditors Report on page 60.
The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate course of action to Statement of compliance with the Combined Code manage those risks.
This includes performing or participating in audits of Joint Ventures JV to ensure JV expenditures have been committed Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company has been with the necessary JV approval and in accordance with JV agreements.
in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined The use of financial instruments and the Groups approach to financial Code.
risk management is discussed in the Accounting Policies on page 70 and the Financial Review on page 35.
The nature of financial instrument risks faced by the Group is further detailed in note 23 to the Group Additional disclosure Financial Statements.
The information specified in the UK Financial Services Authority Budgetary process Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6, is located elsewhere in Each year the Board approves the business plan and annual budget.
The Directors Report, on page 43, provides the Key risk areas are identified.
Performance is monitored and relevant details of where the information is located.
action taken throughout the year through the regular reporting to This Statement of Corporate Governance was approved by the Board the Board of changes to the business plan and variances from the on 26 March and signed on its behalf by: budget and updated forecasts for the year and the three year capital investment programme together with information on the key risk areas.
Investment appraisal Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and Colin Goodall authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed Chairman proposals have to be submitted to the Board or Country Panel.
Appropriate due diligence work is carried out if a business or significant 26 March 2010 assets are to be acquired.
42 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2009
