CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combined Code The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies to in formal terms of reference, copies of which are available from disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in June 2006 www.
com which are reviewed regularly, stating the the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they items specically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate strategy and the operating budget and monitors divisional performance governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that it through the receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
complies in full with the terms of the Code.
The process for the approval of acquisitions divestments for the most part is a matter reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the Directors Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities up to a specified The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus one further level of authority.
Similarly there are authority levels covering capital Executive Director and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear expenditure, which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
these levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
The four Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Other matters reserved to the Board include: independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors Overview of control, audit and risk management.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
Andrew Remuneration: Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the The Groups framework of executive remuneration and its Audit Committee, is a qualied accountant.
He is considered to have cost in the light of recommendations made by the recent and relevant financial experience.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is Senior management succession plans and the overall direction satisfied that these do not conict with their duties as Non-Executive of management development.
The Executive Directors do not hold any Pension schemes.
non-executive directorships in other companies.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and the Details of their respective appointments are set out in the report The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and on directors remuneration and related matters on page 36.
Copies of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes of their respective letters of appointment or contracts are available monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and will also be meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which Directors, available for inspection at the forthcoming AGM.
in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
the Article 83 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the code by providing that all Directors are required to The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the submit themselves for re-appointment at least once every three years.
Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being Directors of a publicly limited company.
The training needs of the The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briengs the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate in the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or terms of appointment.
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between Board meetings.
24 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 During the financial period, the Board, and each of the audit and The Committee normally meets at least four times a year.
Both the remuneration committees undertook performance evaluations.
Using external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management were the Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice as guidance, the individual present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice for the committee members initially completed separate questionnaires.
The Committee to meet the external auditors without management present.
results were compiled and analysed by the Company Secretary, who The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right to request a prepared reports to the Board and each of the committees.
The areas meeting without other management present, and he regularly meets the covered included the role of the executive and Non-Executive Directors Chairman of the Audit Committee without management being present.
and the Board Board committees, preparation for and the performance The Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend meetings atmeetings,  Boardcommittees, leadership as appropriate.
and culture and corporate governance.
The results were considered by the Board and each of these committees in meetings.
The Board The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of and Board committees consider that they are operating effectively.
meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
The Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, also met with the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of the Chairmans effectiveness.
Details of the Chairmans professional reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined commitments are included in his biography on page 19.
Code, i. e: During the year ended 30 April 2009 the Board met seven times.
To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, This is felt adequate to enable effective running of the Company.
reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements The attendance record of individual Directors at Board and contained therein.
Committee meetings is detailed below: To review financial reports for publication and to ensure compliance with all accounting policies and standards.
To review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory Board Audit Remuneration Nomination requirements.
7 meetings 4 meetings 6 meetings 2 meetings To review the Companys internal financial control and risk David Newlands 6 N A N A 2 management systems and to review risk exposures and steps Jean-Nol Labroue 5 N A N A 1 taken to monitor and control them.
Thierry Falque-Pierrotin 3 N A N A N A To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Peter Wilson 7 4 6 2 audit function.
Michel Brossard 7 4 6 2 To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Bernard Dufau 7 4 6 2 appointment of the external auditor and to approve the Andrew Robb 7 4 6 2 remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Simon Herrick 7 N A N A N A To monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional Retired from the Board on 2 February 2009 Appointed to the Board on 5 January 2009 and regulatory requirements.
To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit, including whistleblowing.
Remuneration and Nomination: To satisfy itself the Companys code of conduct is being enforced.
The removal and appointment of the Group Director of Audit and a Audit Committee Risk Management.
The Audit Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner in the Chairman, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
past financial year: The Committee has at least one member, Andrew Robb, who possesses recent and relevant financial experience.
It will be seen At its meetings in June, September, December and March 2009, from the Directors biographical details, appearing on page 19, that the focus was the review of the Annual report and financial the members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience statements, the half-year report and financial statements and from positions at the highest level both in the UK and France.
the interim management statements respectively.
On each occasion, the Committee received reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management c Nomination Committee was presented at each of the four meetings, which highlighted any The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the March meeting, Chairman, Thierry Falque-Pierrotin, Peter Wilson, Andrew Robb, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submitted the internal Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
Jean-Nol Labroue was a audit plans for the coming year.
member of the Committee until his retirement on 2 February 2009.
The external auditors presented their audit plans at the December The Committee would be chaired by the Senior Independent Director meeting, and there was a detailed review of the management letter on any matter concerning the Chairmanship of the Company.
covering the auditors findings in respect of the prior financial year at the September meeting.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the Group companies were, from time to time, required to authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: make presentations to the Committee on the subject of risk, its identication, management and control.
To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, As a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with size and composition and make recommendations to the Board information on material litigation involving Group companies.
with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
The Committee reviewed all financial statements prior to Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the their publication.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise and to review recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend Setting policy for granting of service agreements including the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into mitigation policy.
These include: Relations with shareholders The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Board and the quality of advice given.
shareholders and does this through its Annual and interim reports and The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business at the Annual General Meeting.
Although it does not have precise rules and industry.
covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the enter into a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is important.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the Director to meet with the Companys institutional investors in the UK, independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are Europe and US and presentations are made on the operating and substantially restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee Road Shows are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory presentation of the full year and interim results.
If it is not possible requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence to arrange face-to-face meetings, meetings are held by telephone from the Company.
The slide presentations made to representatives of the investment community following the announcement of the full-year b Remuneration Committee and interim results are available on-line at www.
com The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive as is a web cast of the results presentations.
Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views Its responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that of institutional shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Peter the remuneration and terms of service of the executive Directors are Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual be unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to contribution to the Companys overall performance.
It also ensures his attention.
that the allocation of shares under the Groups share schemes are on a fair and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
The application of corporate governance principles in relation to Directors remuneration is described in the Report on Directors Remuneration and Related Matters on pages 29 to 37.
26 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 The principal communication with private investors is through the The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: Annual report, the interim report and the Annual General Meeting.
A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate Risk assessment: greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the The Group sets out its objectives clearly as part of its opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of each medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then Board committee at the meeting and meet the Directors informally incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial of business and the for, against and abstention proxy votes cast key performance indicators.
in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are counted The operating companies make presentations on risk to their and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the resolution.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board shareholders with the Annual report at least 20 working days before on the risks and weaknesses facing the businesses.
the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part Financial and other information including the terms of reference for of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and the Board and Board committees are available from the Companys re-forecasting cycles.
registered ofce and are also available on the Companys website The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering www.
operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis and receives reports on the controls over these risks biannually.
Accountability, risk management and internal control This includes risks arising from social, environmental and It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should ethical matters.
present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made Control environment and control activities: to the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 38, which The Group consists of a number of operating companies includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the each with its own management and control structures.
Groups status as a going concern, and to the report of the auditors The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, on page 39, which includes a statement by the auditors about their which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because reporting responsibilities.
of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price each significant risk that has been identied.
These strategies sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information include not only internal controls but also other approaches required to be presented by law.
such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury instruments, although the risk assessment process does not Internal control cover franchisees.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal The operating companies work within a framework of policies control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a and procedures laid down in organisation and authority review has taken place during the year ended 30 April 2009 and up manuals, and personnel are required to comply with these to the date of this report.
Such a system is designed to manage rather procedures.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, compliance with can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material legislation and physical and data security.
The Group has also misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the established a whistleblowing policy.
key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
Information and communication: Following publication of guidance for Directors on internal control in the The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process including monthly performance review for each major business for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range and is in accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed Committee guidance 2005. to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for employees to report suspected improprieties.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Monitoring: Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for The effective application of internal control within the Group the identication and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their is monitored by the following: business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive management reviews, identies and evaluates the risks which are The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board after review by Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal the Audit Committee.
The type of risks identied include strategic risk, announcements relating to the financial performance: external factors such as the competitive environment and regulations Reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other internal change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key control and risk management systems including reports from management and macro market risks.
The internal audit plans are Internal Audit on material control weaknesses: designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each Reviews risk management systems: businesss significant identied risks.
Where appropriate the risk Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function management process will include the use of insurance.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness The business head of each major operating company, who: of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
Maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of The Boards review of the system of internal controls has not identied the business: any significant failings or weaknesses and, therefore, no remedial Reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems actions are required.
through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions: Has responsibility for identication and evaluation of significant risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls: Has responsibility for their local audit committee: Supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group: Certies with the finance director for the operating company that all necessary information has been provided to the Auditors.
The internal audit and risk management function, which: Works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations: Oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss audit committee: Ensures that business risks are identied, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance: Provides the Board and the Group Audit Committee with assurance on the control environment across the Group: Ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular reviews of their internal controls: Monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
28 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09
