52 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Statement The Board is collectively accountable to the Companys Board of Directors shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary Composition of the Board obligations.
Up to 28 March 2009 there were five independent non-executive Directors, the non-executive Chairman and two executive The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards Directors.
The Board has concluded that its composition of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, throughout the year was and remains appropriately balanced.
controls and processes it approves and by which the fide La Rue Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying.
There is a clear division between the management of the Board and the executive Directors responsibility for managing the The Companys corporate governance procedures, which are Companys business.
However, no individual or small group can approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, dominate decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and Executive are separated and clearly defined.
The Chairman is the functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining primarily responsible for the working of the Board.
The Chief the jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Executive is responsible for running the business and non-executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its implementing Board strategy and policy.
corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined Code, legislation or good practice.
Revisions were last made in The Directors biographies appear on page 47 and the Boards March 2009. policy is that the Chairman and executive Directors should accept appointments to the boards of other companies only with the prior The Board also approves the Companys Business Code of approval of the Board and that non-executive Directors must seek Conduct Code of Conduct which defines the Companys the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board business principles and which was updated in September 2007. before accepting additional commitments that may affect the This is discussed further in the Corporate Responsibility Report time they devote to their role.
These documents are set out on the Companys website www.
Board Changes During the year there were several changes of Directors and In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, roles, details of which are set out in the Chairmans Statement the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, on page 18.
James Hussey, who for the past four years has evaluating and managing the key risks including financial, been Managing Director of the Security Paper and Print Division, operational and compliance controls and risk management was appointed Chief Executive and an executive Director on systems.
This process has been in place throughout the year 1 January 2009. and up to the date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Boards governance policies include a process Simon Webb was appointed Group Finance Director Designate for the Board to review regularly the effectiveness of the system on 2 February 2009 and became Group Finance Director and of internal control and risk management systems, and the Board an executive Director of the Board on 1 April 2009. has conducted such a review during the year.
Details are set out on pages 52 to 57.
This does not extend to associated companies In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, James or joint ventures such as Camelot Group plc where the Company Hussey and Simon Webb being eligible will offer themselves for does not have management control.
election at the Annual General Meeting.
Gill Rider and Warren East will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code on re-election.
Nicholas Brookes, having served for three three year Corporate Gover finance terms, will retire and being eligible will offer himself for re-election.
In the year to 28 March 2009 the Company has complied The non-executive Directors hold letters of appointment which throughout with the provisions and applied the principles of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council will be displayed at the Annual General Meeting, together with in June 2006 the Code as detailed in this Report, and which the Directors service contracts and indemnification agreements.
made minor changes to the Combined Code 2003.
The Board agreed to reduce the terms of appointment for all non-executive Directors from three year appointments to two year appointments with effect from 1 April 2008.
53 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement The existing commitments of Directors appear on page 46 and in conjunction with the Audit Committee approving the the Board is satisfied that these commitments do not conflict announcement of interim and final results: with their ability to carry out effectively their duties as Directors of the Company.
approving any interim dividend and recommending the final dividend to shareholders: Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions approving the Annual Report, Remuneration Report and given by special resolutions, the Directors may exercise all the financial statements: powers of the Company.
approving the Groups strategy: Edward Peppiatt replaced Louise Fluker as General Counsel & Company Secretary on 1 April 2009. approving the Groups annual budget: Succession Planning approving significant matters relating to capital expenditure, The Board reviews its composition at least annually, assessing the acquisitions and disposals or joint ventures by any Group skills profile, type and number of non-executive Directors required Company: to enable the Board to perform effectively.
It also reviews the Companys internal talent review process in planning executive approving changes to the capital structure of the Company or Director and senior management succession.
other matters relevant to its status as a listed Company: and Objectives of the Board being informed about and taking any necessary decision on any The Board reviewed its objectives during 2008 2009 and confirmed matter which would have a material effect on the Companys them as: financial position, liabilities, future strategy or reputation.
delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders: The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Chief Executive, except where certain matters are reserved to it or to maintaining the Companys reputation for integrity as the the Committees of the Board.
It annually reviews the delegated foundation of its relationship with stakeholders: and authorities.
The Chief Executive in turn delegates responsibility to senior executives, in particular to strategic business unit building long term success through innovation, quality and managing directors.
Operational control is exercised by the sound management.
Operating Board which functions as a board of directors.
The role and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Role and Operation of the Board Director, senior independent non-executive Director and other The Boards core procedures are: Directors are also clearly defined.
Full details are set out on the Companys website www.
set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees and Directors: The Board provides leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, the control of risk through agreed evaluation and control operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures reviewed and revised annually: and systems.
These are required to identify and manage the risks and their potential effect whilst ensuring that material changes are reported to the Board in a timely fashion.
The Board reviews the monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted by Committee.
the Audit and Risk Committees.
The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce its control of the Group.
Full details are set out on Companys website The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than www.
These include: eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the establishing Committees of the Board and their terms of processes and controls are set out below.
The Board reviews reference: matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
The determining the responsibilities of Directors, in particular those Board timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports of the Chairman and Chief Executive: or presentations from the executive Directors, operational managing directors and key functions.
Directors receive agendas approving internal control processes: and Board papers generally five days before each Board meeting: minutes are circulated as soon as possible thereafter.
The Board reviews progress on implementing actions arising from the Board and its Committee meetings each month.
54 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Statement continued There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters Details of Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings between Board meetings.
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: All Directors can request additional information from management Audit Nomination Remuneration at any time.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and Directors Attendance 2008 2009 Committee Board Committee Committee services of the General Counsel & Company Secretary who is Number of responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
meetings held 417 4 8 The Board decides the appointment and removal of the Mr N K Brookes 17 4 8 Company Secretary.
MrDWA East 3 16 3 Sir Jeremy Greenstock 16 4 8 Board Evaluation and Effectiveness Review Mr K H Hodgkinson 4 14 4 8 The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Mr J A Hussey Committees carried out an evaluation of their performance during appointed 1 January 2009 41 the year.
The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board.
The Mr S A King 17 process involved completion of questionnaires which focused on Dr P M G Nolan 4 16 4 8 process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy Mr L M Quinn and succession, against delivery of the Boards objectives and resigned 31 December 2008 12 3 addressing any issues identified during the previous review or Ms G Rider which became relevant during the year.
temporarily stepped down 26 February 2009 414 7 The Chairman and each Committee Chairman had discussions with each Director or Committee member based on the responses Appointed to Nomination Committee on 26 February 2009 and each Directors own views regarding effectiveness of the Board or Committee as a whole and the individual Directors performance.
Role of non-executive Directors The senior independent non-executive Director was responsible for The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the appraising the Chairmans performance in meetings or discussions Board to be independent to 28 March 2009, have an appropriate with the non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
range of business, financial and international experience which is The Chairman and the non-executive Directors also met in the relevant to the Companys activities.
None of the non-executive absence of the executive Directors.
The results were discussed Directors holds a material shareholding in the Company.
Nicholas by the Board and individual Committees and the final report Brookes ceased to be independent after his appointment on 22 July highlighting any areas for improvement agreed by the Board 2004 as Chairman under the Code but the Board considers that his in May 2009. contribution and objectivity in Board and Committee discussions were fully consistent with those of an independent Director.
Conflicts of interests Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest which Keith Hodgkinson is the Companys senior independent nonconflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the executive Director until his retirement from the Board on Company unless that conflict has been authorised by the Board.
31 December 2009 when he will be succeeded by Sir Jeremy Such conflict may arise by reason of a situation or a specific Greenstock.
Shareholders may contact him if they feel their transaction proposed.
The Board has established a process to concerns are not being addressed through normal channels.
review at least annually and if thought appropriate authorise any Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment, and annually, conflict of interest and has carried out such review and authorised and have done so this year, that they are able to allocate sufficient all Directors situational conflicts.
Any transactional conflicts are time to enable them to discharge their duties properly.
Directors reviewed as they arise.
who have been unable to attend Board or Committee meetings have made known their views on pertinent matters before Indemnity the meeting.
To the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the UKLA Listing Rules the indemnification of Directors and Officers is permitted so that the Company may advance defence costs in civil or regulatory proceedings on such terms as the Board may reasonably determine but any advance must be refunded if the Director or Officer is subsequently convicted.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
55 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Induction and Training The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company, process, considers the performance of each of the Directors for which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters standing for election and re-election at this years Annual General as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group including Meeting to be fully satisfactory and is of the opinion that they key financial data, business, social and environmental risks to have demonstrated continued commitment to the role.
The Board the Groups activities, corporate governance matters such as the strongly supports their election and re-election and recommends role of the Board and individual Committees, and the Companys that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions at the Annual corporate governance procedures as outlined in this report.
are advised on the duties and obligations of Directors of a listed company.
Site visits and meetings with senior management Committees of the Board are also arranged.
Any newly appointed Director, who has not The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, previously been a Director of a listed company, is invited to attend General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Chairmen an external course covering such duties and responsibilities.
and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
Directors are briefed, where appropriate, by the Companys The terms of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, external advisers, on changes to legislation, regulation or market Remuneration and Risk Committees appear on the Companys practice, as well as receiving briefings from individual businesses website and are also available on request.
The Board is satisfied throughout the year.
James Hussey and Simon Webb have that the Committees discharged their responsibilities set out received briefings from the Companys auditors and legal advisers.
Membership of these Committees is given in the Directors The Board received specific briefing on the key issues of the biographies on pages 46 and 47.
Further details of Committees Companies Act 2006 and on its implementation during the year.
and key activities performed during the year are given on pages The Directors, especially Committee chairmen, have the 55 and 56. opportunity of attending appropriate training sessions.
Nomination Committee The Board visits an operational site at least annually Malta in The Committee consists of four independent non-executive 2008.
Directors are also encouraged to visit other sites and staff.
Directors together with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The General Counsel & Company Secretary in conjunction with the Chairman ensures that there is proper communication between the The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as Board and its Committees and senior management and that nonnecessary and makes recommendations to the Board with regard executive Directors receive appropriate information.
The Chairman to any vacancies for executive or non-executive Directors or reviews and the General Counsel & Company Secretary facilitates changes that are considered necessary.
The Committee also induction and other professional development as required.
reviews the time commitment required of non-executive Directors at least once a year.
The Board, as a whole, approves the Directors may take independent professional advice at the appointment and removal of Directors.
The Committee has the Companys expense, although no such advice was sought during power to employ the services of such advisers as it deems the year.
necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities.
It generally retains appropriate executive search consultants, having prepared Appointments a job specification for the particular role to be filled.
The principal All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at activity of the Committee during 2008 2009 was succession least every three years.
New Directors are subject to election by planning following the disposal of Cash Systems and recruitment shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment James of a new Chief Executive, Finance Director and other senior Hussey and Simon Webb will stand for election at the 2009 Annual management.
General Meeting, as are Directors whose role has changed since their previous election or who are subject to particular conditions, Remuneration Committee such as Nicholas Brookes who, since March 2006, is required to Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in July submit himself for re-election annually after serving nine years on 2006 and she has been the Committee Chairman since 26 July the Board.
Non-executive Directors were originally appointed for 2007 until she temporarily stood down from the Board on 26 an initial period of three years with the expectation of a further February 2009.
Philip Nolan is acting Chairman of the Committee.
three years subject to satisfactory performance.
The Board agreed Details of the Committee and of the remuneration policy can be to reduce the terms of appointment for all non-executive Directors found in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 66. from three years to two years with effect from 1 April 2008.
Additionally, any non-executive Director who has completed General Business Committee six years is required to submit himself for re-election annually The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters thereafter.
Philip Nolan will retire from the Board at the conclusion arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only independent of the 2009 Annual General Meeting and Keith Hodgkinson will non-executive Directors may decide matters relating to the retire from the Board on 31 December 2009.
The Board may invite administration or the implementation of the Companys share a non-executive Director to serve a further term after a six year schemes other than for the purpose of allotting shares on term following a detailed review at the end of this period, subject exercise.
56 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Statement continued Risk Committee Internal Audit The Committee, chaired by the General Counsel & Company The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least four times a financial control systems through reports received from the Group year.
Other members include the Chief Executive, Finance Director, internal audit function during the year.
The internal audit function heads of key functions and representatives from each strategic reviews internal financial controls in all key activities of the Group, business unit.
Any Director is entitled to attend any meeting.
typically over a three year cycle.
It acts as a service to businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and Key areas of responsibility for the Risk Committee are to monitor procedures.
There is a system of internal control reviews which the Groups risk exposure, promote risk awareness and provide includes a self-assessment programme covering both financial and an appropriate level of reporting by exception to the Board, IT controls.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations which retains the overall responsibility, on the status of internal and these are followed up to ensure that satisfactory control is non financial risk management.
The Committee is assisted by maintained.
The internal audit programme is centrally co-ordinated.
Group-wide committees which deal with specific areas of risk such This is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, together with as the Environmental, Health and Safety Steering Group and the reports from the external auditors on internal control matters noted Group Security Committee.
The Risk Committee will work closely as part of their audit work.
with Ernst & Young LLP, the internal auditors, in ensuring the focus of risk management is aligned with the internal audit programme, The Company continued to raise the profile of good internal and a review of the relationship of the internal audit function, financial controls.
The fraud risk profiling programme, involving Risk Committee, Audit Committee and the Board is in progress.
multi-disciplined teams, considered areas of potential risks and confirmed controls needed for key financial processes to mitigate Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group such risks.
Ernst & Young LLP was appointed in 2007 to assist in the internal Audit Committee of the Board audit programme and to develop the approach to internal audit to All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonensure it was aligned to the risks that the Company face and to executive Directors.
The Board considers that during 2008 2009 develop the audit process to include non financial risks for a more Keith Hodgkinson, chairman of the Audit Committee had sufficient robust audit and assurance tracking process for key significant recent and relevant financial experience for it to discharge its risks.
The Audit Committee decided to outsource the internal audit functions effectively.
The external auditor, Chairman, Chief function entirely to Ernst & Young LLP for 2009 2010 following the Executive, Finance Director, General Counsel & Company disposal of Cash Systems.
Secretary, Group Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit attend each meeting at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Independence of Auditors The Head of Internal Audit and KPMG Audit Plc each meet the The Audit Committee has a detailed policy specifying which Committee without executive Directors or employees of the services the external auditor is either allowed to or prohibited from Company being present.
performing on behalf of the Group and the relevant procedures to be followed by the Group.
The Committee provides an independent overview of the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and financial The procedures relate to: reporting processes.
The principal responsibilities include: selecting the statutory auditor and approving the audit fee: the appointment of the external auditor and the terms of engagement at the start of each audit: being satisfied that there are no relationships between the auditor and the Company other than in the ordinary course of business : approving and reviewing progress on audit plans across the businesses: agreeing a policy on the employment of former employees of the auditor, then monitoring the implementation of this policy: reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial statements, commissioning non-audit work: and reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence circumstances in which it is appropriate or inappropriate for and objectivity: incumbent auditors to be allowed to, or prohibited from, providing non-audit work.
reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy, details of which are set out on page 41.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function and of the external audit and KPMG Audit Plcs role in performing it.
57 fide La Rue Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Statement fide La Rues procedures for procuring audit and consulting services from external sources are: Audit-related services: this covers regulatory and statutory reporting and formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
Non-audit related services: the Audit Committee regularly reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services seeking to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
Incumbent auditors are prohibited from performing certain non-audit related services including remuneration consultancy and advice, the design, development or implementation of financial information or internal control systems.
Certain other non-audit services interrelate closely with the auditing work because of the significant knowledge the incumbent auditors may possess of the particular area of the business or issue.
Therefore a total ban on use of incumbent auditors might lead to loss of business knowledge that could adversely affect audit quality.
Whilst it may be cost effective for incumbent auditors to provide services, as a general principle all must be subject to competitive tender.
The Finance Director determines how this applies.
Nonaudit related services may include: work related to disposals by the external auditors because of their knowledge of the business concerned: and corporation tax compliance work assessed on a case by case basis, depending on who is best suited to perform the work.
Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non-audit related services such as acquisition work where the selection criteria include detailed proposals, timescales, local resource and cost.
During 2008 2009 the amount of non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc was 1.1m and was principally related to work performed in connection with the disposal of the Cash Systems business including the vendor due diligence report, working capital adjustment, two Class I Circulars and the Prospectus for the B Shares.
The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their objectivity and independence being compromised.
They report to the Audit Committee on how they comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence.
Thus key members of the KPMG Audit Plc audit team rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality is maintained between different parts of the firm who may be providing services to fide La Rue.
By order of the Board Edward Peppiatt Company Secretary 19 May 2009
