CorPoraTe GoVerNaNCe In accordance with the Listing rules of the UK Listing authority, the Company confirms that at 29 august 2009 and as at the date of this annual report, it was compliant with the provisions of and has applied the principles as set out in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial reporting Council.
The Company also confirms that it was compliant throughout the year except for Code Provision a.. 2 which requires that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
at the start of the year the board comprised the Chairman, four executive directors, five independent non-executives and two non-independent non-executives.
Following the departure of angela Spindler as Managing director on 0 November 2008 there remained three executive directors.
richard Gillingwater resigned from the board on 16 april 2009 reducing the number of independent non-executives to four.
on June 2009, Jonathan Feuer and Philippe Costeletos, the two non-independent non-executive directors resigned from the board.
Since 1 august this year, following the resignation of Peter Long and the appointment of Martina King and SophieTurner Laing, the board comprises the Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The board is confident that it has the right balance of skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business, that no individual dominates the decision making and that the board operated effectively throughout the year and continues to do so.
The following section sets out how the Company has applied the principles of Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board The board of directors, chaired by John Lovering, provides leadership of the Group directly and through the operation of committees and delegated authority.
In accordance with good practice there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the boards decision and this can be found on the Companys website www.
There are clear divisions of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief executive and these are set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The description of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief executive is also available on www.
The Chairmans main responsibilities are to lead the board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects, to facilitate the contribution of the non-executive directors and the relationship between them and the executive directors and to set the boards agenda.
The day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility of the Chief executive.
The executive directors are rob Templeman Chief executive, Michael Sharp deputy Chief executivehaving been appointed to the position in November 2008 and Chris Woodhouse Finance director.
rob Templeman will stand for re-election, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, at the 2010 annual General Meeting aGM.
The five independent non-executive directors are Paul Pindar Senior Independent director, adam Crozier, dennis Millard, Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing.
In accordance with the Code, Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing who were appointed non-executives during the year will be subject to election by shareholders at their first aGM in 2010 along with dennis Millard who will offer himself for re-election.
all the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent and free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect their independent judgement.
The following details the changes to the board composition since 0 august 2008: Michael Sharp executive director Promoted to deputy Chief executive on November 2008 angela Spindler executive director resigned 0 November 2008 richard Gillingwater Senior Independent director resigned 16 april 2009 Jonathan Feuer Non-executive director resigned June 2009 Philippe Costeletos Non-executive director resigned June 2009 Peter Long Non-executive director resigned 1 august 2009 Martina King Non-executive director appointed 1 august 2009 Sophie Turner Laing Non-executive director appointed 1 august 2009 In addition to the directors, board meetings are attended by Nigel Palmer retail operations director, Nikki Zamblera human resources director, Suzanne harlow Group Trading director and Paul eardley Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Suzanne harlow was appointed to the position of Group Trading director in November 2008 and is responsible for all of the buying and merchandising functions of the Group.
Meetings and Attendance Full attendance is expected at all meetings of the board and its committees.
agendas are set by the chairman of the meeting and papers are usually circulated to the members one week in advance.
The board held six meetings during 2008 09 as well as a number of ad hoc meetings and committee meetings held in connection with the placing and open offer.
2 Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 The attendance by individual directors at scheduled meetings of the board and its committees in 2008 09 was as follows: Nomination remuneration audit Board meeting Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6133 John Lovering 61 rob Templeman 6 Michael Sharp 6 Chris Woodhouse 6 adam Crozier 22 1 Martina King 1 Sophie Turner Laing dennis Millard 61 Paul Pindar 12 Note: 1 Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing were both appointed to the board on 1 august 2009.
There were no board or Committee meetings held during the period from their date of appointment to 29 august 2009.
Where directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conicts in their schedule, they receive and read the papers for consideration at that meeting and if necessary follow up with the relevant chairman of the meeting.
Board Committees The board committees are the audit, remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference of each committee can be found at www.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Paul Pindar.
The other members are John Lovering and dennis Millard.
The committee is responsible for making appropriate recommendations to the board for the appointment of replacement or additional directors.
It is also responsible for succession planning, for reviewing board size, structure and composition, the re-election of any director by shareholders, directors time commitment and for monitoring and approving the directors conicts of interest.
on 7 July 2009, the appointment of two new non-executive directors was announced.
The Nomination Committee identied possible candidates for these non-executive positions with the aid of external search consultants.
The Chairman met a number of potential candidates before recommending a shortlist to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Following further discussion Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing were appointed, effective from 1 august 2009.
Before the appointment Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing had met several other members of the board.
There is a full induction process in place for the new directors that aims to enable them to make a full contribution to board discussions and refresh their knowledge on corporate governance and compliance.
The Remuneration Committee The Committees membership and responsibilities are detailed within the remuneration report on pages 7 to.
The Audit Committee The board has overall responsibility for the system of internal controls, including risk management, and has delegated certain of these responsibilities to the audit Committee, which is chaired by dennis Millard who has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are adam Crozier and Martina King.
all the members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
audit Committee meetings are also attended by the Finance director, the Company Secretary, the head of risk Management, the external auditors and the Treasurer.
In addition to the meetings set out in the attendance table above, the Committee met with the Companys auditors and the head of risk Management separately without any executives being present.
during the year the Committee has monitored and reviewed the efficiency of risk management and internal control, considered the external auditors performance, resource, independence and objectivity to enable them to recommend to the board their re-election as auditors for 2009, reviewed the financial statements, key accounting policies, the auditors report on the year-end audit and managements responses to the issues.
The internal audit programme and the external audit strategy and scope for 2009 were also agreed and approved.
Treasury, legal and health and safety reports are presented to each meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee reports any significant findings or identied weaknesses to the board.
Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 3 Management and Governance CorPoraTe GoVerNaNCe continued Information and Professional Development The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
at each board meeting the Chief executive and deputy Chief executive each provide a review of the business and how it is performing and the Finance director provides a detailed review of the Groups financial performance.
In addition, the board receives presentations from other senior management on key areas of the business.
The Company makes available the necessary resources to develop and update its directors knowledge and skills in order that they may perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is appointed by, and can only be removed by, the board.
The Company Secretary ensures compliance with board processes and gives advice on corporate governance.
Independent professional advice is also available to the non-executive directors and the board committees at the Companys expense in order to full their duties.
None of the directors sought such advice during the year.
debenhams provides insurance cover and indemnities for its directors and ofcers.
Performance Evaluation a formal evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees, the individual directors and the Chairman was conducted during the year in order to review past performance and to develop future performance.
The performance of the internal and external auditors was also evaluated.
Use of an external body to manage the performance evaluation process was considered.
however the board concluded that the approach followed last year remained appropriate and cost efficient for the Company.
Consequently, as in previous years, a condential questionnaire was completed by all directors in relation to the board and any committee of which they were a member.
In addition, the Chairman completed questionnaires on each individual director.
The questionnaires seek to establish whether the group or individual was contributing effectively to their role and to also determine their commitment to the role.
The senior independent director appraised the Chairmans performance.
The results of the evaluations were collated by the Company Secretary and analysed in detail by the Chairman, the chairman of the relevant committee, the senior independent non-executive director and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman led the full board in a discussion about the results of the evaluation and a similar session took place in respect of each committee led by the committee chairman.
The evaluation concluded that the board operates well and that the board committees operate effectively.
In particular, the structure of the board is now more suitable for that of a public company.
The discussions have led to further adjustments to the method of agenda setting, allocation of more time on the board agenda for non-operational matters and for a more structured follow up of action items arising from board meetings.
Directors Conicts of Interest at the aGM in January 2009, shareholders approved the adoption of new articles of association, which amongst other things, permitted the board to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the Company.
The Nominations Committee reviewed and considered the interests and other appointments of the board members in august this year and all conicts were approved.
directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to the registered conicts.
Share Capital and Control Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies act 2006 can be found on page 0 of the directors report.
Internal Control The board considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic assessment of the risks facing the business in order to provide assurance that strategic targets can be met.
The board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The following sections detail how the Company maintains a framework of internal controls based on a combination of the five components of the internationally recognised CoSo Framework for Internal Control together with other enterprise risk management guidelines and any related guidance provided by the Financial reporting Council.
also described below are details of how the audit Committee reviewed during the year the effectiveness of that framework and its supporting policies and procedures.
Control Environment Including Objective Setting The strategic objectives of the organisation are underpinned by the control environment which is exemplied by the board to their various stakeholders through their compliance with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, internally published risk management strategy, related policies and procedures and in particular the Code of Business Conduct.
Risk Assessment and Risk Response risks to the achievement of the strategic objectives have been identied through various organisation-wide control environment reviews, the most recent of which was completed in September 2009.
The board, including the senior management team, participated in this exercise which considered the business strategy and related objectives, internal and external risks to their achievement, together with current and any new controls required to mitigate those risks.
risks were ranked according to a matrix of severity and likelihood of occurrence and the risk register was updated accordingly.
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 The key risks identied, together with strategies to mitigate them, are reviewed by the audit Committee and ratied by the board annually.
during this process the audit Committee satisfy themselves that the key risks are being effectively managed and monitored by senior management and that the internal audit plan is focused on high priorities.
Information on principal business risks and uncertainties can be found on pages 6 to 8.
Control Activities a series of control activities used to mitigate the risks identied include risk transfer through a third-party contract, nancing the risk through insurance or consideration by management of re-engineering the process in question.
In addition, suitably qualied staff are responsible for each of the functions within the organisation and there are training, performance reviews and support mechanisms in place to ensure standards of performance are maintained.
Monitoring and Communicating The risks that have been identied are monitored through a variety of mechanisms which include: the audit programme, fraud detection systems across point of sale and certain central data repositories, the critical and serious risk monitor, internal procedures such as stock takes and stock le counts, prevention tools such as CCTV and through management controls.
In addition to the above, there are a number of processes to test the Companys financial information and controls.
an operating plan is prepared in august of each year and a revised forecast is then prepared each month, which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the plan.
In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key ratios.
daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management accounts are also prepared, all of which report on performance against plan, last year and forecast.
a treasury report is made to each meeting of the board, covering matters such as senior operating restrictions and covenant reporting and forecasting under the banking facilities, exposure to foreign exchange and hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash ow and cash ow forecasting and amounts deposited with counterparties.
Internal Audit and Risk Management Internal audit forms part of the risk management function, which also comprises the anti-fraud, insurance and profit protection departments.
This combination enables the Company to maintain a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk management whilst allowing internal audit to benefit from the insights that the other elements of the team can provide.
The internal audit plan focuses on critical and serious risk testing of high priority areas.
The Company Secretary conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of both internal and external audit teams in august 2009.
The respondents included all audit Committee members, the Finance director, function heads, senior retail managers and a self-assessment by the head of Internal audit and risk Management.
For the internal audit function the evaluation considered effectiveness in a number of categories: understanding, charter and structure, skills and experience, communication, planning, performance and work programme.
The categories for external audit were reputation and coverage, communication, understanding, governance and independence, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, performance, audit fees.
The overall feedback was very positive for both internal and external audit with effectiveness scores of 90 per cent and 9 per cent respectively.
Whistle Blowing all employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct senior employees confirm compliance in writing.
This sets out the ethical standards expected by the Company and includes details of how matters can be raised in strict confidence.
There are two main routes available to encourage employees at all levels within the organisation to raise concerns over malpractices.
The first, employee guidelines to problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their managers line manager or if still concerned to call hr Connect the central human resources team directly.
The alternative route is a condential reporting line, where employees can speak to the debenhams anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, he she should contact the Company Secretary or the head of risk Management directly.
Contact details are given for all these routes.
The Companys policy on whistle blowing and these methods of raising issues of concern are published on the intranet and emphasised on posters.
all serious matters are raised with the audit Committee Chairman.
Auditor Independence In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has been established and is regularly reviewed.
This covers matters such as that auditors and their staff have no family, financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company, the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services.
The audit Committee makes recommendations to the full board in respect of re-appointment annually of the auditors and the board then ensures that this is included on the Notice for the annual General Meeting.
 LLP PwC has a policy that requires the audit partner to rotate off an audit clients account every five years and this rotation has recently taken place in respect of the debenhams audit.
as regards the risk of PwCs withdrawal from the market, the Company considers that there are sufficient other auditors in the market place should this situation ever arise.
Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 3 Management and Governance CorPoraTe GoVerNaNCe continued The objective of the audit Committees policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
an independent report is produced by the debenhams central costs team each quarter during the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information is reported to the audit Committee at each meeting.
The Companys policy identies three categories of accounting services.
The first category is audit-related services, which the auditors are permitted to provide.
The second category is prohibited services which the auditors are not permitted to provide.
Prohibited services are those which might result in the external auditors auditing their own work or making management decisions for the Company and those where some mutuality of interest is created or where the external auditors are put in the role of advocate for the Company.
The third category is potential services which the auditors may, in certain circumstances, provide subject to compliance with the independence policy.
These services include tax advisory services or services where the auditors are acting as the Companys reporting accountant.
0.7 million was paid by the Company to  LLP for non-audit services in respect of advisory services, 0.6 million of which related to the capital raising in June 2009.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were 6,000.
Relations with Shareholders The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
The Chairman and senior independent director are always available to meet with major shareholders at their request on relevant issues.
during 2009 shareholders were consulted on remuneration issues.
Formal trading updates were issued on six occasions during the year: September 2008 full-year trading update, october 2008 full-year results, January 2009 interim management statement, March 2009 half-year trading update, april 2009 interim results and June 2009 interim management statement.
Formal presentations were held following the announcement of the full-year and interim results.
Conference calls were held for all other trading updates and interim management statements.
a programme of meetings and conference calls is organised throughout the year at which the Chief executive, Finance director and head of Investor relations discuss the Companys performance with investors.
In 2009 meetings were held in London, edinburgh, Boston, Stamford and NewYork.
analysts and investors were invited to attend tours of the new agship store in Westeld London in october 2008 and March 2009.
The Chairman made a presentation on the Companys financial performance and major business initiatives at the aGM in January 2009.
6 Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
