Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Corporate Governance The Board recognises its accountability to Shareholders and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied throughout the period under review with Section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code in all aspects.
Application of the Principles of the Combined Code Section 1 of the Combined Code sets out the main and supporting principles of good governance for companies.
The following report details how the Company has applied the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code to its activities.
Directors The Board The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and provides entrepreneurial leadership within an embedded framework which allows for the ongoing assessment and management of risk.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
These include the approval of corporate policies, strategy, plans and budgets, acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses, major investment and financial decisions and major management or organisational changes.
At all Board meetings an agenda is established reflecting the Directors responsibilities.
This comprises reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Operating Company Directors, reports on the performance of the business, major items of strategic planning, investments and significant policy issues.
The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, including the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board also appoints committees to approve specific processes as deemed necessary.
The Board is scheduled to meet eleven times per annum with additional meetings called if necessary, including two meetings where the full year and half year results are dealt with.
Attendance at meetings during the year to 30 June 2009 was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Name 11 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings Michael Redmond 11 n a 3 2 Malcolm Diamond 10 4 3 2 Neil Warner 10 4 3 2 Ian Page 11 n a n a n a Simon Evans 11 n a n a n a Ed Torr 11 n a n a n a Note: n a denotes that the Director is not a member of this committee, but may attend by invitation.
The Chairman regularly holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present, at least annually, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Should Directors have any concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of the Company or a proposed action, they have the right to ensure this is recorded in the minutes.
Further, on resignation, should a Non-Executive Director have any concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of legal action against Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective working of the Board and ensures that each Director, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, is able to make an effective contribution to the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Company, implementing policies and strategies determined by the Board.
com The Chairman, at the time of his appointment, did meet and continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
His appointment was rigorously reviewed by the Board last year and it considered that he continues to fulfil his role to the highest standard, providing appropriate support and direction to the Company and its Executives.
Board Balance and Independence The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, two other Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors including the Chief Executive.
Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board has determined that during the year under review each of the Non-Executive Directors remained independent and free from any relationships which could compromise their independent judgement.
Malcolm Diamond has served nine years as at August 2009 and, in line with the Code, the Nomination Committee has carried out a rigorous review of his appointment.
Following such review the Board has determined that Malcolm Diamond remains independent notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for nine years.
The Board considers that Malcolm Diamond still performs his duties effectively, continuing to show integrity and high ethical standards whilst maintaining sound, independent judgement in respect of all decisions taken at Board and Committee level.
The Nomination Committee does, however, recognise the need to ensure refreshment of the Board and has engaged a recruitment consultancy firm to assist in the process of appointing a further independent Non-Executive Director: it is hoped that a suitable candidate will be appointed by the end of the 2009 calendar year and an announcement to the London Stock Exchange will be made at this time.
Malcolm Diamond will continue in his role as Senior Independent Director: however, this role will be reviewed during the 2009 2010 financial year.
As such, Malcolm Diamond will continue to be available to Shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels had failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board therefore, considers that all the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with or compromise the exercise of their independent judgement.
The details of the Board of Directors are shown on page 38 and in the Directors Report on pages 40 to 43.
Appointments to the Board The Board has an established Nomination Committee to lead the process for Board appointments and to make recommendations to the Board.
The Nomination Committee comprises Michael Redmond Chairman, Malcolm Diamond, and Neil Warner.
The Chairman will not chair the Committee meeting when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman.
The Nomination Committee normally meets once a year and its terms of reference are available on the Company website at www.
The terms of reference set out the Nomination Committees role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
They include the following responsibilities: l To oversee the plans for management succession: l To recommend appointments to the Board: l To evaluate the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors: l To consider the structure, size and composition of the Board generally.
There have been no appointments to the Board during the year to 30 June 2009.
Other significant commitments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were disclosed to the Board before appointment and the Board is notified of any subsequent changes.
None of the Executive Directors hold a Non-Executive Directorship.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors will continue to be available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Both the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Service Contracts of the Executive Directors will be on display at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
45 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Corporate Governance continued Information and Professional Development The Directors are supplied in a timely manner with all relevant documentation and financial information to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
This includes information on the Companys operational and financial performance.
At least one Board meeting per year is held at one of the Groups operational sites to enable the Directors to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations: during the 2008 2009 financial year one Board meeting was held at Dales Pharmaceuticals in Skipton and one held in Denmark at DVP EU.
Any newly appointed Directors would receive an induction programme to the Company including corporate governance training and background to the Company.
All Directors are encouraged to keep up to date on all matters relevant to the Group and attend briefings and seminars as appropriate.
Each Director is entitled on request to receive information to enable him to make informed judgements and adequately discharge his duties.
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers generally, and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Performance Evaluation The Board has developed a formal process of reviewing its own effectiveness and the effectiveness of the Board Committees.
This is based on a combination of written reviews by individual Directors, discussion with the Chairman and review by the Board as a whole.
As part of this process the Board considers the performance of individual Directors.
This process has been undertaken during the year.
Re-election On appointment, Directors are required to seek election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment.
One-third of the Board are required to retire from office by rotation at the Annual General Meeting subject to all Directors having submitted themselves for re-election every three years.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Simon Evans and Malcolm Diamond will retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and will seek re-election.
The Board has reviewed their performance and strongly supports their re-election and recommends that the shareholders vote in favour of these resolutions.
Remuneration Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report at pages 51 to 58.
This details the Companys compliance with the Codes requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Company website at www.
Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, through the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Business Review and the Directors Report.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Independent Auditors Report on pages 63 and 66 to 67 respectively.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control aims to safeguard the Companys assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements and ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations including the assessment and management of risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance, particularly against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a well-established, ongoing and embedded framework of internal financial and operational control for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
com Every four months the Board prepares and updates a thorough review of relevant risk areas and systems of internal control.
The review is structured by business area and key risk strategy and is based upon a summary of information prepared and reviewed by divisional management on an ongoing basis.
This framework has been in place throughout the year under review, and has continued up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The current review was prepared to 30 June 2009.
The Groups key systems of control include: Business Plans Business plans provide a framework from which annual budgets and forecasts are agreed with each business unit, including financial and strategic targets against which business performance is monitored.
The plans are reviewed by Executive management, and then by the Board for ultimate approval.
Actual performance during the year is monitored monthly against budget, forecast and previous year.
Full year forecasts are updated at regular intervals during the year based on trended historical data and realistic forecasts.
Investment Approval The Group has clear requirements for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure determined by the Board.
Development Expenditure The Group has a transparent and established process for evaluating and monitoring the level of development expenditure incurred.
Management Structure Executive management are responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant internal and external risks applicable to their business areas.
The top three business risks are reviewed at the monthly divisional board meeting with a full risk review taking place every four months.
The Company and its business units operate control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of financial transactions and to limit the loss of assets due to fraud.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties in key areas, and internal reviews and checks.
Key functions such as tax, treasury, insurance, legal and personnel are controlled centrally.
Audit Committee and Auditors Information relating to the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 49 to 50.
This details the Companys compliance with the Combined Codes requirements in respect of audit matters.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Company website at www.
Responsibility for monitoring the Groups system of internal control rests with the Board.
It is assisted by the Audit Committee, which reviews the interim and annual reports provided to Shareholders, the audit process and the systems of internal control and risk management, the latter by way of consideration of the Boards updated progress report and action plan regarding internal controls.
Whilst the Board recognises this does not constitute an internal audit function, it believes that due to the size of the Group this review provides sufficient comfort as to the controls in place.
The Audit Committee reviews the requirement for an internal audit function annually.
The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
They independently and objectively review managements reporting of the Groups consolidated results and financial position.
In addition, they review the systems of internal control and the data contained in the Annual Report and Accounts to the level necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
47 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Corporate Governance continued Relations with Shareholders Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Relationships with Shareholders receive high priority and a rolling programme of meetings between institutional Shareholders and Executive Directors is held throughout the year.
These meetings are in addition to the annual and interim results presentations and the Annual General Meeting and seek to foster mutual understanding of the Companys and Shareholders objectives.
Such meetings are conducted so as to ensure protection of share price sensitive information that has not already been made generally available to the Companys Shareholders.
Similar guidelines also apply to communications between the Company and parties such as financial analysts, brokers and the press.
The Company also organises site visits on a periodic basis.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All members of the Board usually attend the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee will normally be available to answer Shareholders questions at that meeting.
Notice of the meeting, together with the Annual Report and financial statements, is posted to Shareholders not less than 20 working days prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The information sent to Shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered at the Annual General Meeting, where a separate resolution is prepared for each substantive matter.
When a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against the resolution and any abstentions are disclosed at the meeting and will be made available as soon as practicable after the meeting on the Company website at www.
At the Annual General Meeting there is an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communications between investors and Directors.
