com Audit Committee Report Membership The members of the Audit Committee the Committee are currently: Neil Warner Chairman of the Committee Malcolm Diamond Senior Independent Director The Board considers that Neil Warner has recent and relevant financial experience gained through his position as Finance Director of Chloride Group PLC, as required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Responsibilities The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the written terms of reference which are available on the Company website at www.
The main responsibilities are: l To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing the annual and half year reports in detail to ensure they present a balanced assessment of the Companys position and prospects which is understandable to Shareholders and potential investors: l To review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems as described on pages 46 and 47 and, in conjunction with the auditors, consider the accounting policies adopted by the Company: l To review the Companys whistle-blowing arrangements: l To oversee the relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, approves their remuneration, monitors their independence and objectivity, and monitors the effectiveness of the audit process and sets the policy for non-audit work: l To make recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function.
In the performance of its duties the Committee had access to the services of the external auditors and is at liberty to obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
Further, the external auditors have direct access to the Committee Chairman outside the formal Committee meetings.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal control activities.
Given the systems of internal control discussed on pages 46 and 47, and due to the present size of the Group, the Committee currently believes that an internal audit function is not required.
Meetings The Committee met four times during the year, timed to coincide with the financial and reporting timetable of the Company, namely July, August, February and May.
Members attendance at the meetings held during the year can be found on page 44.
At the meeting in July 2008 the Committee considered, and agreed with the external auditors, the approach and overall scope of the audit to be commenced in respect of the 2008 year end.
The Committee also carried out a formal review of its own effectiveness led by the Committee Chairman.
A further Committee meeting was then held in August 2008 which was primarily concerned with a review of the draft financial statements and draft preliminary statement prior to their submission to the Board.
The Committee also considered, amongst other matters, the external auditors report on the full-year audit, a review of internal controls, auditor effectiveness and the requirement for an internal audit function.
The Committee also reviewed the steps taken to ensure that all relevant audit information had been disclosed to the auditors thereby enabling the Directors to make the statement contained within the Directors Report on page 42.
At the meeting in February, the Committee considered in detail the half year results and draft half year announcement.
In addition, the Committee considered the non-audit fee policy and updated the terms of reference.
49 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2009 Audit Committee Report continued At the meeting in May the Committee focused on the audit strategy for the audit commenced in respect of the 2009 year end: this included a detailed consideration of the FRC Guidance Challenges for Audit Committees arising from current economic conditions.
The Committee also discussed and approved the audit expectations, timetable and fee.
The external auditors attend meetings of the Committee other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
The Chief Executive, Chairman, Group Finance Director and other senior finance staff attend as appropriate.
The Committee has discussions at least once a year with the auditors without management being present.
Auditor Independence With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the external auditors, the Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
When considering the use of external auditors to undertake non-audit work, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director do at all times give consideration to the provisions of the Smith Report with regard to the preservation of independence.
As mentioned above, the policy in respect of non-audit fees was reviewed and amended during the year.
Non-audit fees are now capped to 50% of the relevant years audit fee and the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have authority to commission the external auditors to undertake non-audit work to this level.
This work has to be reported to the Audit Committee at the meeting where the Annual Report is considered.
If the cost is expected to exceed the agreed levels then the prior approval of the Committee is required before the work is commissioned and a detailed explanation of the reasons for exceeding the limit provided in the annual Audit Committee Report.
In all cases, other potential providers are adequately considered.
In respect of the year under review the audit fee has been approved at 266,000 and non-audit fees amount to 96,773, representing 36% of the audit fee.
During the current year, the external auditors have been commissioned to carry out a number of non-audit projects including tax advisory and compliance work, verification of satisfaction of the performance conditions attaching to the Approved and Unapproved Company Share Option Schemes and assistance in respect of the closure of an offshore Employee Benefit Trust.
The external auditors annually confirm their policies on ensuring audit independence and provide the Committee with a report on their own audit quality procedures.
Professional rules require rotation of the Group Audit Engagement Director every five years and this took place during the 2005 2006 financial year.
Effectiveness Review During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness through a process led by the Committee Chairman.
The Committee considered it had the skills to perform its responsibilities, particularly through Neil Warners financial and audit experience by reason of his position as Financial Director of Chloride PLC.
The results of the review were advised to the Committee and the Board.
The performance, cost and independence of the external auditors is reviewed annually by the Committee, together with a review of the level of service provided by the external auditors to the Group.
Based on the Committees review of the performance of the external auditors and on the planning and execution of the annual audit, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Neil Warner Chairman Audit Committee 1 September 2009 50 16782 08 09 2009 Proof 9
