Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 32 Governance, The executive committee, engagement and appointed and chaired by the commitments chief executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the key components of the business: the market regions, global supply and the global functions.
The chief executive has established committees with a continuing Keeping closely engaged remit, including the corporate citizenship committee.
Chaired by with our stakeholders helps us the chief executive, this committee understand their concerns and is responsible for making decisions informs our business decisions.
or, where appropriate, recommendations to the board or executive committee concerning Governance corporate citizenship strategy, The alcohol and responsibility The work of the Diageo board and policy and issues.
Progress in executive working group its committees is described in the these areas is reported periodically complements the corporate annual report.
In summary, the to the board and publicly through citizenship committee by bringing board consists of a chairman, chief this report.
together key executives and executive, chief fi financial offi cer and functional representatives to seven independent non-executive co-ordinate and realise Diageos directors.
The non-executive commitment to developing a more directors are experienced and positive role for alcohol in society.
infl uential individuals from a The environmental executive range of industries and countries.
working group shares best practice Diageo Their mix of skills and business between business units and governance experience is a major contribution develops strategies for compliance structure to the eff ective functioning of the with our environmental policy.
It is board and its committees.
Audit Diageo supported by the supply functions committee There is an induction environmental leadership team, board programme for new directors in which develops approaches to which they receive orientation environmental management and training on the business for performance improvement at our example, its assurance processes, production sites.
and environmental and social There is an HIV Aids taskforce Filings responsibility policies and Finance in each of our African markets.
The board makes committee Other ad hoc groups are brought The chief executive decisions and reviews and has delegated to together as required to formulate approves key policies and these committees responses to particular issues.
responsibility for decisions, including corporate Compliance with policy elements of Diageo s governance: compliance with laws, risk management and and achievement of citizenship regulations and the companys control processes performance targets are included code of business conduct: risk in the personal objectives of management: corporate individuals directly responsible citizenship, ethics and the for the underlying issues.
The board reviews Corporate Audit and approves the corporate citizenship and risk citizenship report.
committee committee Working Regional risk groups eg, management responsible committees drinking and environments Business unit risk management Profile Society Environment Economy Governance Governance, engagement 33 and commitments Engaging our stakeholders We face a wide range of expectations from stakeholders, all of whom to a greater or lesser extent demand to be heard and This year we published a new involved in company activities and version of the code.
Stakeholders listed drafting process we took into below expect our business not account industry and professional only to generate revenue but also consulted through team meetings best practice, as well as the views to have a positive role in society and employee forums: and they of key individuals within Diageo and work to minimise whatever A new version of such as the audit committee, senior have opportunities to learn the the Diageo code of adverse impacts may stem from context of decisions in managers and functional leaders.
We have launched the code in management briefi ngs as well was published this In response to this, through as to challenge them.
each of our markets, providing year in 18 languages risk and opportunity analysis, training in its application for all our corporate relations, investor Commercial partners 3,000 senior managers.
In the trained in media skills and we relations and sales teams co coming year, we will make the Commercial partners are have a global network of media ordinate appropriate engagement encouraged to maintain close code available in 19 languages, professionals.
The media are with each stakeholder group.
and provide training to the rest relationships that help us identify regularly surveyed to assess how In almost every Diageo market, opportunities for mutual of our employees.
we meet their needs for fair representing the vast majority of The code of business conduct commercial benefi t and maintain reporting and analysis of our our business, we have plans for high standards of citizenship in the acts as an overarching compliance business.
communicating with stakeholders instrument by including a value chain.
who we are and what we stand for, requirement to comply with the Consumers how we listen to views, exchange companys other policies.
All Government Consumers are the subject of ideas and gather early warning of Government and other Diageo managers are required to market research to gain insight into stakeholder concerns to help us complete an annual compliance policymakers are kept informed their changing needs: they are kept make better-informed decisions.
through briefi ngs and we request certifi cate confi rming they have informed through brand and read and understood the code and meetings on relevant policy areas.
corporate websites: we provide Investors When governments seek our views policies relevant to their role and product information on packaging Investors can question company those of their team.
They are also as part of policy consultations we and through our website DRINKiQ.
directors at the annual general aim to respond constructively: required to confi rm they have com: and they can voice their meetings of Diageo and its quoted reported any breaches of the code representations on our behalf concerns via consumer carelines.
subsidiaries: presentations are are also made through trade personally or within their team, given to the investment and disclose issues that have not associations.
Diageo policies community: the website has a previously been raised.
section for investors: and we SpeakUp, an  The understanding we gain from respond to key questionnaires Community representatives are run, confi dential phone line that engaging with stakeholders is a on our corporate citizenship allows employees to report their consulted to ensure that our social powerful infl uence in formulating submitted on behalf of investors.
investment is targeted where it concerns anonymously without our policies, priorities and actions.
fear of reprisal, further supports can do most good: projects are These support the Diageo values Employees developed in partnership with compliance.
Issues that colleagues and form the framework within Employees are kept informed by are encouraged to report include non-governmental organisations which we act on corporate a variety of means about changes and monitored by Diageo knowledge or suspicion of violation citizenship issues.
Our global policies that aff ect them: their opinions are of legal, accounting or regulatory representatives: best practice is apply to all Diageo businesses and polled through the annual values shared with other companies, requirements, breaches of our operate in addition to compliance survey and other means: they are code, or any other questionable governments and NGOs through with local law and regulation.
The membership of network conduct.
full texts of many of our global This year, we received organisations: before fi nalising a policies are available on the website.
Gu ided by the belief project, pilot schemes often The Diageo code of business 58 reports 2008: 31 to SpeakUp, that the wellbeing of which raised issues such as provide community input to conduct aims for the highest its stakeholders is the key the design.
standards of integrity in all our allegations of policy breaches, grievances with managers and actions and interactions with each to its success, Diageo has Media other and those outside Diageo.
adopted a far-reaching To make reporting easier for Media relations are fostered The code shows our commitment sustainability strategy through briefi ngs, meetings and to ethical behaviour and sets out employees, we introduced that has had positive web-based and email reporting press releases: our CEO and senior what is expected of employees.
environmental and social managers maintain contacts with Its aim is to ensure that we remain and promoted the aims and use of SpeakUp during training sessions.
eff ects around the globe.
journalists: key employees are one of the most trusted and respected companies in the world.
Eric Lowitt, John Glen and Peter Lacy, Accenture case study Diageo Corporate Citizenship Report 2009 34 Governance, engagement and commitments Policies Forward-looking statements Code of business conduct Updated this year, the code sets This document contains certain out our standards on business forward-looking statements.
These External codes integrity issues statements can be identifi ed by and charters the fact that they do not relate to Marketing code Diageo is a signatory to a number only historical or current facts.
Guidance on responsible of external codes that defi ne In particular, forward-looking Managing risk advertising, promotion and corporate citizenship principles statements include all statements innovation Our structured approach to and standards: that express forecasts, expectations, addressing social, environmental plans, outlook and projections with Code of ethics and economic impacts helps us UN Global Compact respect to future matters, including Standards of honest and ethical manage risk more effi ciently, We signed the Global Compact, trends in results of operations, conduct of specifi ed senior strengthen our reputation and the worlds largest corporate margins, growth rates, overall offi cers of Diageo brands, avoid or reduce citizenship initiative, in 2002 and market trends, the impact of occurrences that could cause loss, have been an active member of interest or exchange rates, the Human rights policy and build trust with stakeholders.
the UK Network since it began.
availability or cost of fi nancing to Working environment, dignity Our ability to manage such impacts Last year we endorsed the Diageo, anticipated cost savings at work, life balance, employee well today is crucial to our ability to UN-managed CEO Water Mandate or synergies, the completion of engagement, releasing potential thrive in the future.
that aims to address the worlds Diageos strategic transactions and and rewarding and valuing Our process for identifying, growing water crisis as pressures general economic conditions.
people evaluating and managing the risks intensify from climate change, By their nature, forwardwe face complies with UK and US population growth and looking statements involve risk Environmental policy requirements.
The audit and risk development.
In Communications and uncertainty because they Systems of management and committee, chaired by the CEO, on Progress, available on the relate to events and depend on standards, updated this year is responsible for the companys website, we report some of the circumstances that will occur in to refl ect our ambitious eff ective internal controls and risk actions we have taken in support the future.
There are a number environmental programme management, reviewing assurance, of the ten principles of the Global of factors that could cause actual and promoting the culture and Compact and the six pledges results and developments to diff er Supplier standards processes that support eff ective of the CEO Water Mandate.
materially from those expressed or Ethics and human rights: a key compliance.
Involvement in such initiatives implied by these forward-looking element of sourcing decisions The Diageo executive allows us both to learn from others statements, including factors that committee and signifi cant business and to show leadership in are outside Diageos control.
Employee alcohol policy units are responsible for identifying responsible business practice.
All oral and written forwardGuidance for employees on key risks and managing them looking statements made on or the standards we expect from appropriately.
Executives review Dublin Principles after the date of this document and our people business unit risk assessments and The principles set out the basis attributable to Diageo are expressly the activities planned to manage of ethical co-operation between qualifi ed in their entirety by the Consumer risks regularly during the year.
the beverage alcohol industry, risk factors contained in Diageos information policy These processes are also applied to governments, scientifi c researchers annual report for the year ended Information standards major business initiatives such as and the public health community.
30 June 2009, which is also fi led concerning our brands systems implementations and on Form 20-F with the US Securities organisational change projects.
Business Charter for and Exchange Commission SEC.
Occupational health and Licence to Operate LTO, Sustainable Development Any forward-looking statements safety policy launched at our supply sites four Drawn up by the International made by or on behalf of Diageo Health, hazardous materials, years ago, is a global Diageo Chamber of Commerce and speak only as of the date they fi first aid, noise, ergonomics process for driving continuous supported by Diageo since 1997, are made.
and equipment improvement and managing the charter sets out 16 principles Diageo does not undertake compliance to legislation and of environmental management to update forward-looking Quality policy compliance with our policies and which infl uenced the drafting of statements to refl ect any changes Quality management systems risk management standards.
The the Diageo environmental policy.
in Diageos expectations or any and commitment to continuous areas covered include quality, changes in events, conditions or improvement.
environment, occupational health Partnering to Strengthen circumstances on which any such and safety, security and business Public Governance statement is based.
At the close of the year A World Economic Forum should, however, consult any more than 80% of our audited sites challenge to companies to additional disclosures that Diageo had achieved the highest levels of contribute to eff orts to improve may make in documents it fi les performance within LTO.
In the public governance, develop public with the SEC.
All readers, wherever light of this, we are now piloting a policy frameworks and enhance based, should take note of these risk-based approach to enable us the capacity of public institutions.
Past performance to focus on key business priorities.
cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
