Profile Society Environment Economy Governance 29 The value chain Supplier relationships also go beyond commercial considerations and involve issues such as labour relations, health and safety, environmental management and business integrity.
The standards we expect in these areas are set out in our supplier standards policy document Partnering with Suppliers, compliance with which is a formal part of our qualifi cation process for raw material suppliers.
Weve held conferences with key suppliers in Europe and North We aim to maintain high standards America, which provided an opportunity for us to explain not only in our own operations our policies, communicate our but also among the other businesses ambitions for the future and help Our economic impact suppliers understand their role in that supply us and deliver our brands on the value chain our ability to achieve our goals.
The conferences enabled us to pool One of the most signifi cant our collective expertise to identify impacts of our business on Demand for our brands creates economic opportunity new opportunities that will take local economies is to provide for other businesses in the value chain in agriculture, this aspect of our business employment.
This year, around 17% manufacturing, services, distribution and retailing.
We want relationship to the next level.
of the value added to raw materials our relationships with these companies to be fair and mutually by our business passed to our own benefi cial.
We favour businesses with standards of citizenship Supplier standards employees, underlining their at least as good as our own and often work with business importance.
A further indirect partners on issues to help raise standards in our value chain.
To confirm that our suppliers economic benefi t comes from maintain adequate standards we the employment created by the use the independent Suppliers suppliers and customers in our Ethical Data Exchange, or Sedex, value chain.
We estimate that the through which participating people whose livelihoods depend suppliers post self-assessments on the economic value created by online.
These can be accessed by Diageos business number in the any of their customers signed up hundreds of thousands.
to the scheme, eliminating the duplication of reporting separately Supplier relationships to each.
Of the approximately 20,000 Procuring the many goods and businesses that supply Diageo, services needed to make and the 5% we judge as presenting market our brands is a complex the highest risk are in the process process.
We source some supplies of posting self-assessments.
globally or regionally for example, A sample will be independently some grain for fermentation audited against Ethical Trading while we can obtain others more Initiative standards of human economically from local suppliers.
rights, labour conditions and We aim to develop strong health and safety and gaps relationships with our suppliers to identifi ed for improvement.
help ensure that the availability of We have played a leading part goods and services is sustainable in AIM-Progress, a consumer goods and that we can obtain the best industry initiative to make the value in terms of cost, quality, assessment of suppliers consistent service and innovation.
As part across all member companies.
of a series of reviews across the The benefi ts of collaboration are organisation this year, we have becoming apparent as an simplifi ed a complex situation increasing number of suppliers are by working with our suppliers found to be common and their to standardise payment terms input is being simplifi ed.
As one for all suppliers to 60 days.
supplier put it, We have had over 20 requests for the same information and we really welcome this initiative.
We are also now planning on rolling this out to our suppliers too.
