Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 93 The responsibility statement was approved by the board of to meet without the chairman present at least annually directors on 26 August 2009 and signed on its behalf by NC Rose, to appraise the chairmans performance.
During the year, the chief financial officer.
Diageos chairman and non-executive directors met six times as a group without executive directors being present, and the independent directors met once without the chairman.
New York Stock Exchange corporate Board committees: Diageo has a number of board committees governance rules that are similar in purpose and constitution to those required Under the NYSEs new corporate governance rules for listed by NYSE rules.
Diageos audit, remuneration and nomination companies, Diageo must disclose any significant ways in which committees consist entirely of independent non-executive directors save that the chairman of the nomination its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
committee, Dr FB Humer, is not independent.
Under NYSE Diageo believes the following to be the significant areas in standards, companies are required to have a nominating which there are differences between its corporate governance corporate governance committee, which develops and recommends a set of corporate governance principles and practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies.
This information is also provided on the companys is composed entirely of independent directors.
of reference for Diageos nomination committee, which Basis of regulation: UK listed companies are required to include comply with the Code, do not contain such a requirement.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, Diageo in their annual report a narrative statement of i how they have applied the principles of the Code and ii whether or discloses in its annual report the results and means of not they have complied with the best practice provisions of evaluation of the board, its committees and the directors, the Code.
NYSE listed companies must adopt and disclose and it provides extensive information regarding directors compensation in the directors remuneration report.
Diageo complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions of Code of ethics: NYSE rules require a code of business conduct the Code.
to be adopted and disclosure of any waivers for directors Director independence: the Code requires at least half the or senior officers.
Diageo has adopted a Code of Business Conduct for all employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior board excluding the chairman to be independent nonexecutive directors, as determined by affirmatively concluding officers in accordance with the requirements of SOX.
Currently, that a director is independent of management and free from no waivers have been granted to directors or senior officers.
any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise Compliance certification: NYSE rules require CEOs to certify to the NYSE their awareness of any corporate governance of independent judgment.
NYSE rules require a majority of independent directors, according to its own bright-line tests.
Diageo is exempt from this as a foreign private Diageos board has determined that, in its judgment and issuer but is required to notify the NYSE if any executive officer without taking into account the NYSE bright-line tests, all of the becomes aware of any material non-compliance with NYSE standards.
No such notification was necessary during the non-executive directors are independent.
As such, currently 7 of Diageos 10 directors are independent.
period covered by this report.
Chairman and chief executive: the Code requires these roles to be separate.
There is no corresponding requirement for Directors attendance record at the Annual General Meeting, board meetings and board committee meetings, for the year US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and chief executive.
ended 30 June 2009 was as set out in the table below.
For board Non-executive director meetings: NYSE rules require and board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the non-management directors to meet regularly without number of meetings attended out of the number that each director was eligible to attend.
management and independent directors to meet separately at least once a year.
The Code requires non-executive directors 2008 Annual Audit Nomination Remuneration General Board committee committee committee Meeting maximum 6 maximum 6 maximum 6 maximum 5 Dr FB Humer 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 PS Walsh 6 6 3 6 6 6 5 5 NC Rose 6 6 6 6 n a n a Lord Hollick 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 PB Bruzelius n a 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 LM Danon 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 M Lilja 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 PG Scott 5 6 6 6 5 6 5 5 WS Shanahan 4 5 4 5 4 5 3 4 HT Stitzer 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 PA Walker 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 Attended by invitation.
