Diageo Annual Report 2009 86 Corporate governance report Governance differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards Dear Shareholder 71 Board of directors and are summarised below and on the companys website at executive committee www.
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the corporate 74 Directors The way in which the Codes principles of good governance governance report for the year ended 30 June 2009. remuneration report Reputation is critical to commercial success and can only be and relevant provisions of SOX are applied is described within this 86 Corporate governance report enhanced by behaviours of which we are proud.
At Diageo, we corporate governance report.
94 Directors report strive to have the highest standards of integrity in the way we behave towards our consumers, customers, employees, public officials, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Diageos board and executive committee are therefore committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance, being a responsible corporate citizen in the communities of which we are part and applying the PD Tunnacliffe appropriate level of risk management when directing and Company Secretary controlling the business.
The activities of the board and executive committee as Board of directors described in this report underpin the companys commitment Membership of the board and board committees, other to achieving these aspirations.
directorships and attendance at meetings We share the view, expressed in the preamble to the Code The chairmen, senior non-executive director and other members as defined below, that good corporate governance will of the board, audit committee, nomination committee and contribute to better company performance as it helps a board remuneration committee are as set out above in the biographies discharge its duties in the best interests of shareholders.
of directors and members of the executive committee.
Good governance will also facilitate efficient, effective and The directors biographies also show the significant other entrepreneurial management that can deliver shareholder commitments of the chairman and other directors and whether value over the longer term.
there have been any changes to them during the year.
Directors The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK attendance during the year at board meetings, meetings of the companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE are audit, nomination and remuneration committees and at the contained in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Annual General Meeting was as set out in the table at the end as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council of this report.
in June 2008 the Code and the UK Financial Services Authority The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive FSA Listing Rules, which require companies listed on the Main directors to hold an external directorship to broaden their Market of the LSE to describe, in their annual report, their experience and normally this would be limited to one company.
corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds a UK non-executive generally with their adherence to the Codes main principles directorship in Unilever PLC having retired from his nonand the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with executive directorship of Centrica plc during the year and any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together a US non-executive directorship in FedEx Corporation.
The board are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance considers that, given the importance of the United States to the arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good companys business, the FedEx directorship is of benefit to practice.
Diageo has complied with both the main principles set Mr Walsh in terms of market awareness, US business practices out in section 1 of the Code and the provisions set out in section 1 and networking and that the time commitment is not onerous of the Code throughout the year.
The Code is publicly available as the meetings can be combined with other business trips to under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the the United States.
The chief financial officer, NC Rose, does not Financial Reporting Council, www.
currently have an external directorship.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules There is a clear separation of the roles of the chairman and contained in the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well the chief executive.
The chairman, Dr FB Humer, is responsible for as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
the running of the board and for ensuring all directors are fully As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a informed of matters sufficient to make informed judgements.
company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo As chief executive, PS Walsh has responsibility for implementing is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the strategy agreed by the board and for managing the group.
the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with He is supported in this role by the executive committee.
the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Whilst the determined are independent, are experienced and influential directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies individuals from a range of industries and countries.
Their mix are robust, changes have been and will continue to be made to of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the ensure compliance with the rules that are in place at any point proper functioning of the board and its committees, ensuring in time.
Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice: that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making processes.
Through the nomination committee, the board ensures that plans are in place for the succession of the executive and non-executive directors.
