Directors Report: Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report Membership and meetings further consideration of succession planning in relation to The membership of the Committee during the period, whose Board members and senior executives within the Group: biographies and qualifications are set out on page 40, is set the evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year out in the table below and comprised the four independent which confirmed the Committees opinion that the Boards non-executive directors and the Chairman.
All the Committee size, composition and structure and the present Board members served throughout the period.
The Committee met Committee structure were appropriate to the present twice during the period and additionally on an ad hoc basis as needs of the Group.
The Committee is also satisfied required to facilitate the recruitment of the Chairman designate.
that the present structure offers strong leadership for Meetings attended the Company, but does not concentrate authority in Members during period one or two key individuals.
As part of the evaluation, Sir John Collins Chairman 2 the Committee benchmarked the Board against a peer Rita Clifton 2 group of companies: Count Emmanuel dAndr 2 the evaluation of the time commitment required from Andrew Lynch 2 each non-executive director and the Chairman in fulfilling John Whybrow 2 their respective roles, recognising the need for availability outside the scheduled Board timetable: The Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee.
John Allan joined the Committee following his appointment review of the Committees terms of reference following to the Board on 23 June 2009. changes arising from the Companies Act 2006 and other relevant legislation: Role of the Committee The Committees principal roles and responsibilities are: consideration of the terms of appointment of Rita Clifton, Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow and the recommendation to keep under review the structure, size and composition of to the Board that those terms be extended for a further the Board and its principal committees and to recommend period of three years: and changes deemed necessary: a review of the policy for external appointments for both to identify, evaluate and nominate to the Board candidates non-executive and executive directors following changes for appointment to the Board: implemented by the Companies Act 2006 for recommendation to be responsible for succession planning for Board members, to the Board.
in particular, the Chairman and Chief Executive: and The Committee is satisfied that the Board keeps abreast of to make recommendations to the Board for the continuation developments within the industry through a mixture of private or otherwise of a director in office upon the expiry of any research and presentations from internal and external advisors specified term of appointment.
on key areas of importance to the Company.
No member of the Committee participates in discussions The Committee is satisfied that the directors retiring in or decisions concerning their own appointment to the Board.
accordance with the Articles of Association at the forthcoming The Committees full terms of reference are on the corporate AGM John Browett, Rita Clifton and John Allan are properly responsibility section of the corporate website.
qualified for reappointment by virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution of guidance and time Key matters considered to the Boards deliberations.
The principal matters considered by the Committee during the period included the following: Following the announcement that Count Emmanuel dAndr will be retiring at the AGM in September 2009, the Committee the recruitment of an additional director to assume the has begun the search for an additional non-executive director position of Chairman following the announcement that and details regarding this process will be reported in the Sir John Collins will retire at the AGM in September 2009.
The recruitment process was led by the Senior Independent Director, Andrew Lynch, with the assistance of the recruitment consultancy The Zygos Partnership.
The Committee believes John Allan is independent in character and judgement on appointment and meets the independence criteria as set out in the Combined Code.
Sir John Collins was not involved in the selection and approval of the Chairman designate: Sir John Collins Chairman of the Nominations Committee the appointment of Nicholas Cadbury as Group Finance Director: 50 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
