Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board recognises the importance of good corporate The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: governance and maintains high standards of corporate approval of the interim statement and annual report and governance for which the directors are collectively accountable accounts including the review of critical accounting policies to shareholders.
Sound governance is central to achieving the and accounting judgements and an assessment of the directors prime objective of maximising shareholder value and Companys position and prospects : comprises, principally, the processes by which the Group is directed and managed, risks are identified and controlled and approval of the interim and final dividends: effective accountability is assured.
the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: The directors consider that the Company has throughout the communication with shareholders, including approval of all period complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of circulars, prospectuses and major public announcements: the Combined Code.
changes relating to the Companys capital structure and Combined Code the Memorandum and Articles of Association: The following statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 61, the Audit Committee Report on the appointment, removal and remuneration of directors page 49 and the Nominations Committee Report on page 50, and the Company Secretary: explains how the Group has throughout the period applied the terms of reference of Board committees, the Chairman the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and the executive directors: on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
approval of the Groups strategy and annual budget: Board of Directors review of Group performance: As at the date of this report, the Board comprises a maintaining and monitoring the Groups system of internal non-executive Chairman, the Chairman designate, who control and risk management: is considered to be independent upon appointment, four non-executive directors considered by the Board to be approval of major capital expenditure or disposals, material independent and two executive directors.
Andrew Lynch contracts, material acquisitions and divestments: and fulfilled the role of the Senior Independent Director changes to retirement benefits schemes, employee share throughout the year.
plans and long term incentive programmes.
The Chairman announced at the 2008 AGM his plan to retire as Chairman and from the Board at the 2009 AGM.
The Board, with the assistance of the Nominations Committee, The Senior Independent Director led the search for an conducted an annual assessment of the Board, committees additional director to assume the position of Chairman and individual director performance between April and July 2008 having considered the current Chairmans performance with and reviewed the performance of the non-executive directors, the other non-executive directors and having established the Board and its committees again later in the year.
During an appropriate role description.
This process culminated both of these reviews, the Board concluded that the balance in the appointment of John Allan as a director.
John Allan of skills and experience of the Board and its committees will assume the role of Chairman after the 2009 AGM.
was appropriate for the requirements of the Group.
However, it was decided that to facilitate succession planning the Board The Chairman ensures that the Board has full and timely should undertake a search for an additional non-executive access to all relevant information and holds occasional director in addition to the Chairman designate.
The new meetings with the non-executive directors without the Chairman plans to evaluate the performance of the executive executive directors being present to discuss, amongst directors in early 2010 once he has had an opportunity to other matters, corporate strategy and performance.
work with the Board for a period of time.
There is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings to progress the Groups business and A corporate governance framework has been approved by the to promote open communication and team working.
Board defining the role and responsibilities of the constituent elements of the Groups management structure.
This enables The Articles of Association require one third of the Board not the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Groups otherwise subject to reappointment by shareholders to retire activities so as to achieve its strategic objectives.
by rotation each year and ensure that over a three year period each director is subject to reappointment by shareholders in All directors have access to the services of the Company general meeting.
Details of the directors retiring by rotation at Secretary and may take independent professional advice the AGM on 2 September 2009 are set out in the Statutory at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Information on page 43, with detailed biographies of the On appointment, each director receives a tailored induction Board members shown on page 40.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 45 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued programme into the Group together with guidance and Chairmans Executive Members Committee Committee training appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet members Sir John Collins Chairman of senior management regularly, to undertake visits to all John Browett Chairman parts of the Group, particularly developing businesses, Nicholas Cadbury and to attend external seminars on corporate governance Steve Ager Katie Bickerstaffe matters.
All directors are kept informed of changes in relevant Ronny Blomseth legislation and changes in commercial and financial risks.
Helen Grantham The Board met 14 times during the period including eight Sebastian James scheduled meetings and six ad hoc meetings convened to Keith Jones Andrew Milliken deal with the Placing and Rights Issue announced on 30 April Jean-Emile Rosenblum 2009 and other procedural matters.
Steve Rosenblum Meetings attended during period Fernando fide Vicente Members Scheduled Ad hoc All Board committees operate within written terms of reference Sir John Collins Chairman 8 4 approved by the Board, which are available on request from John Browett 8 6 the Company Secretary.
The Board receives and reviews Nicholas Cadbury 5 6 minutes of their meetings and those of the Executive and Rita Clifton 8 3 Count Emmanuel dAndr 7 1 Chairmans Committees.
The Company Secretary is the Andrew Lynch 8 2 secretary to the Chairmans and Executive Committees.
John Whybrow 8 3 The Executive Committee is responsible for the implementation Appointed 17 July 2008. of strategy and the day to day management of the Groups business.
Individuals from the Committee attend Board Due to the ad hoc meetings being called at short notice, meetings at the request of the Chairman to report on areas not all the directors were available to attend meetings due within their executive responsibilities.
The Chairmans Committee is a forum for the Chairman to The Boards normal practice has been to hold meetings both in monitor and review the development and implementation of the UK and in Europe, enabling, in particular, the non-executive strategy and business market developments and to report directors to gain first hand experience of markets in which the appropriately to the Board.
Group operates and giving local management direct access to members of the Board.
During the 2008 09 financial year all Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders meetings have been held in the UK.
It is planned for 2009 10 The Board attaches considerable importance to the to return to the Boards normal practice of holding a number maintenance of constructive relationships with shareholders of meetings at overseas business locations.
There were and its other stakeholders.
Relationships with suppliers, meetings of the non-executive directors during the period employees and the community are further discussed in the without the executive directors being present and meetings Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 28 to 33.
Effective between the Senior Independent Director and the other two way communication with institutional investors and non-executive directors without the Chairman being present.
analysts is established through regular presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Chief Board committees Executive, Group Finance Director and Group The Board has established a number of committees to which Communications Director.
it has delegated specific responsibilities.
The trading divisions are managed by separate executive committees.
Separate The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including Committees, including details of membership and terms corporate strategy and governance.
Where appropriate, the of reference, are set out on pages 49 to 61.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee communicates with major shareholders to canvas opinion when deciding The Group has also established an Executive Committee and remuneration policy.
Matters arising from these presentations a Chairmans Committee.
Membership of the Committees is and meetings are communicated to the Board.
Further information relating to the Executive are conducted in accordance with the Financial Services Committee members can be found on page 41.
46 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Authoritys Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of inside Responsibility and accountability information to ensure the protection of such information The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of that has not already been made available generally to the internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and the Groups Companys shareholders.
The Board receives and reviews approach to risk management.
an investor relations report at each of its meetings.
The Senior The Board delegates to executive management the day to Independent Director is available to discuss with shareholders day responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the any major issues that cannot be resolved through normal risks facing the Groups operations, and for implementing and channels.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity maintaining internal control systems that manage those risks to attend meetings with major shareholders.
in an efficient and effective manner, appropriate to their nature The AGM provides an opportunity to communicate directly and scale.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration Senior management is responsible and accountable for and Nominations Committees are available at the meeting internal control and risk management and for ensuring to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the AGM compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
and related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions Inherent limitations and continuous improvement are proposed on each substantially different issue.
The notice In determining its policies on internal control, the Board has is contained in an accompanying letter.
regard to the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of losses occurring and the costs of control.
The directors are In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders aware that the inherent limitations in any system of control can obtain information about the Group from the corporate means that risk cannot be totally eliminated.
the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage Pension schemes and mitigate, rather than remove, the risk of failure to achieve The Group operates a number of defined contribution and business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
which operates in the UK, comprises a funded defined benefit The Groups approach to managing and monitoring internal section and a defined contribution section.
A corporate control and risk assessment is reviewed regularly to identify trustee holds the assets of the scheme separately from those ways in which it can be improved and further embedded of the Group.
There are six directors of the trustee company: throughout the Groups operations.
Where significant two have been nominated by the Group, two have been weaknesses are identified, these are investigated fully using selected from amongst the scheme membership and two are appropriate internal resources and, where deemed necessary, independent directors.
Asset management is delegated to a engaging external expertise.
Detailed plans are drawn to number of independent companies whose performance is remedy the weaknesses and progress is monitored on an monitored by a specialist performance measurement service.
The schemes accounts are audited annually by Nexia Smith & Williamson, who are not auditors to any Group companies.
In light of the issues that have emerged in other companies Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their and industry sectors in the past 12 months, a review of the accrued benefits and a copy of the trustees annual report.
Groups approach to the management of risks is currently underway to see if any lessons can be learned.
Further information about pensions is given in note 21 to the financial statements.
Control environment and control activities In addition to the corporate governance structure described Internal control above, the Groups system of internal control and processes In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull working for managing risk comprise the following main elements: party set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Group has established the Board and management committees meet regularly and maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and to monitor progress against the targets set out in the managing the significant risks faced by the Group, for Groups budget and strategic three year plan and to reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control consider the quarterly reforecasts of the Groups expected and for confirming that action has been taken to remedy any financial period end position.
Financial and non-financial significant failings or weaknesses that have been identified.
performance reports are produced daily, weekly and This process, which is reviewed periodically by the Board, four-weekly to facilitate this review process: was in place throughout the 52 weeks ended 2 May 2009 and to the date of approval of the financial statements.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 47 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued the defined lines of authority established by the Board Assurance and monitoring ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate Senior management under the direction of the Board is level.
These include requirements for the approval and responsible for maintaining the appropriate internal control control of both capital and operating expenditure, treasury systems and for managing risk at an operational level.
The operations and cash management.
The procedures in Board conducts an annual evaluation of the management of respect of delegated authority have been enhanced during risk and the processes of internal control and has established a the year and revised authorities have been issued, notably monitoring framework consisting of the functions set out below: in respect of contracts and commitments.
Details on the Audit Committee schedule of matters reserved for the Board are shown The Audit Committee seeks ongoing assurance that the on page 45: control environment and activities described above are each business function has established procedures and operating effectively and reports regularly to the Board.
The controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard Audit Committees review of the effectiveness of the internal the Groups assets: controls is formally reported to the Board on an annual basis.
appropriate controls and procedures have been established Internal audit over the security of data held on, and functionality provided The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
Its work is driven recovery arrangements.
The computer systems are by a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls periodically tested and reviewed by both internal and to mitigate the Groups key risks are audited on a regular external audit functions: basis.
Its plans are approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives regular reports on its findings and progress of the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to related actions.
The function also works with the business to enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities promote and further develop effective risk management within of the roles assigned to them.
review and development mechanisms exist to identify key objectives and areas for improvement for each member External audit of staff.
Succession planning forms an integral part of The external auditors provide further independent human resources management: observations on certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of their audit of the financial statements Group Treasury operates within established and and their findings are presented to the Audit Committee.
The policies are described in the Directors Report on pages 37 and 38 Corporate Responsibility CR and are reviewed and approved annually by the Board The Group operates a CR Committee, which was chaired or one of its Committees: by the Company Secretary from 31 May 2008.
During the period the Committee met on four occasions.
The the Groups programme of insurance covers the material Group Finance Director is the Board member with specific risks to the Groups assets and business and is reviewed responsibility for social, environmental, ethical and other annually by the Audit Committee: CR related matters.
The CR Committee assists the Board management at each business unit and in those functions in identifying reputational and other risks arising from the of the Group requiring greater overview, has responsibility conduct of the Groups businesses.
It makes recommendations for identification and evaluation of significant risks to their on measurement tools and audit procedures and reports on business areas together with design of mitigating controls.
the effectiveness of systems for managing CR related matters.
They are supported in this role by the Internal Audit and Corporate website Risk Management functions: Further information relating to corporate governance including all entities within the Group are required to adhere to terms of reference for Board committees, full schedule of common standards of internal control and corporate matters reserved for the Board, and corporate responsibility governance, which are specified in documented may be found on the corporate responsibility section of the guidance: and corporate website www.
post completion assessments are carried out following major acquisitions.
48 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
