Corporate governance report Directors report on corporate governance The Board recognises that good governance helps the business to deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard shareholders long-term interests and therefore it is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This report contains an explanation of how the main and supporting principles of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council, are being applied currently and were throughout the financial year.
The Code is available online at www.
uk The Directors consider that the the Company has complied in all respects with the provisions of the Code for the year ended 27 December 2009, except as follows: A.
3.1 Chief Executive Of cer becoming Chairman, independence of Chairman A.
3.2 Less than half the Board comprising independent Non-Executive Directors C. 3.1 Audit Committee comprising less than three independent Non-Executive Directors part of year only D. 1.1 Senior Independent Director not attending meetings with major shareholders to listen and to obtain a balanced understanding of their views These are explained in more detail in the sections below.
The information required by DTR 7.1 and DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, save that information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the Directors Report on pages 30 to 33.
Board composition and independence The Board of the Company comprised three Executive Directors, including the part-time Executive Chairman, and six NonExecutive Directors, four of whom are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision A.
3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective and independent judgement.
The independent Non-Executive Directors play a key governance role in protecting shareholders interests and complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors through their range of knowledge, experience and insight from other businesses.
All of the Non-Executive Directors bring strong, independent judgement to the Boards deliberations.
As less than half of the Board comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board composition has not been in accordance with provision A.
3.2 of the Code, but the Board is of the view that there is a suitable balance on the Board because the structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual Directors ensure that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
The biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 29.
Throughout the year under review and as at the date of this report, the position of Executive Chairman of the Company has not been in accordance with provision A.
However the Directors continue to believe having Stephen Hemsley as Executive Chairman is in the best interests of shareholders, given his profound knowledge and experience of the business.
There has been and continues to be a clear division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Of cer.
Pursuant to this allocation of responsibilities, the Executive Chairman has primary responsibility for setting a vision for the Company and formulating its strategy, leading and running the Board and ensuring there is effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Of cer, Chris Moore, has executive responsibilities for the operations and results of the Group, developing the executive and senior management team and making proposals to the Board for the strategic development of the Group.
The Board therefore believes that clear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist and operate effectively for these positions.
At the request of the Executive Chairman, the Board has agreed that he will become Non-Executive Chairman with effect from the end of the 2010 AGM.
A revised set of responsibilities have been worked up by the Nomination Committee and agreed by the Board.
Under the Companys Articles and in line with the Code, all Directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
Both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray have served on the Board of the Company for 10 years, albeit Colin Halpern was an Executive Director until the end of 2007 before becoming a Non-Executive Director.
Due to their respective material shareholdings in the Company and, in Colin Halperns case, because of his previous executive role, neither Colin Halpern nor Nigel Wray is considered an independent Non-Executive Director for Code purposes.
However, the Chairman and the rest of the Board have con rmed that both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray bring extensive knowledge and business experience to the Board that is invaluable to the continued success of the Group.
Therefore, it was agreed in 2008 that both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray would retire and offer themselves for re-election at each years AGM.
John Hodson and Stephen Hemsley will also retire by rotation and offer themselves up for reappointment at the 2010 AGM.
More information about the Directors standing for reappointment is set out in the AGM Notice.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on page 41.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company during normal business hours.
Senior Independent Director Michael Shallow is the Senior Independent Director and is a member of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include being available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer or Chief Financial Of cer or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Whilst the Senior Independent Director is available to meet major shareholders in accordance with provision D. 1.1 of the Code, no such meetings have taken place during the year.
However, the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer had approximately 70 shareholder meetings during the year.
All Board members receive copies of feedback reports from meetings with institutional investors.
34 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Board and its responsibilities The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met and oversees and approves the Companys strategy, ensuring that suf cient resources are in place so that objectives can be met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board decision in order to ensure its overall control of the Groups affairs which are published on the Companys website and this schedule is reviewed annually.
Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the subject of a proposal by one or more of the Executive Directors or the Company Secretary submitted to the Board, together with supporting documentation, as part of the Board or Committee papers circulated one week prior to the relevant meeting.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Of cer briefs the Directors on results, key issues and strategy.
From time to time, senior managers are invited to join Board meetings to make presentations.
All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Companys culture and operations.
The programme will usually include an overview of the business model and the Board processes, meetings with the Executive team and senior managers, site visits and brie ngs on key issues.
The Board also recognises the importance of ongoing training and education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations which are relevant to the Group.
Such training or education is obtained through the Company or through external advisors, as necessary.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
The role of the Company Secretary is to ensure that all procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in respect of his core duties to the Board.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter speci cally reserved for decision by the Board.
Any questions shareholders may have on corporate governance matters, policies or procedures should be addressed to the Company Secretary.
The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors and of cers, although no cover exists in the event the Directors or of cers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Board effectiveness evaluation Each year, a formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and each Directors own contribution takes place, with the assistance of an external independent consultant where appropriate.
The process includes detailed questionnaires for each Director.
Output from the Board effectiveness review is considered by the Nomination Committee to ensure that the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience is represented on the Board and that the Board and its Committees continue to work effectively.
Any appropriate follow up actions are approved by the Board and then taken, for example, following consideration of the results of the 2008 evaluation, there is now more regular and structured interaction with senior managers.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the Non-Executive Directors and uses a tailored questionnaire to assess the Executive Chairmans performance and effectiveness.
This review took into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Directors performance annually.
Board processes The Board scheduled nine meetings in the year ended 27 December 2009, together with an off-site strategy and business planning day.
Ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with corporate and transactional matters between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors met several times during the year, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, without the Executive Directors present.
The table on page 36 shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided with all of the papers and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss matters arising directly with the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer.
The Board governs through a number of Board Committees the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to which certain responsibilities and duties are delegated.
These Committees are properly authorised under the constitution of the Company to take decisions and act on behalf of the Board within the parameters laid down by the Board.
The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these Committees and any issues requiring resolution are referred to the full Board as appropriate.
A summary of the operations of these Committees is set out on page 36.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 35 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued The effectiveness of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees is underpinned by their Non-Executive Director membership, which provides independent insight on governance matters.
Members attendance during the period ended 27 December 2009 Board Nomination Remuneration Audit meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 9 1 5 3 Executive Directors Stephen Hemsley 8 Chris Moore 9 Lee Ginsberg 9 Non-Executive Directors Colin Halpern 9 1 John Hodson 7 4 3 1 Peter Klauber 9 4 3 Michael Shallow 9 1 5 3 2 Dianne Thompson 8 1 4 3 Nigel Wray 7 1 Peter Klauber was only appointed to the Audit Committee on 17 April 2009.
2 Dianne Thompson was only appointed to the Audit Committee on 17 April 2009.
Committees The Committees of the Board each have written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys website.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and as part of this, leads the process for Board appointments and the re-election and succession of Directors, as well as making recommendations for the membership of statutory committees.
The Committee is chaired by Dianne Thompson and its members are Colin Halpern and Michael Shallow, meaning it is comprised of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
It met once during the year to consider the Board evaluation results for 2008 and the appointment of Dianne Thompson and Peter Klauber to the Audit Committee.
The results of the Board evaluation for 2009 were only made available in January 2010, therefore the Committee will meet to discuss the results in early 2010.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees role is to determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It also monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for senior management.
John Hodson chairs the Committee, which, is composed entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The other Committee members are Dianne Thompson, Michael Shallow and Peter Klauber.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board normally attends meetings and the Chief Executive Of cer attends as appropriate.
The Committee met five times this year.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee, its activities during the year and an explanation of how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Code are set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 39 to 46.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for approving the Groups financial statements for the full and half year, monitoring its internal controls and risk management system further details of which are set out below, and for overseeing all matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the external auditors, including reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness and an assessment of the auditors appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work.
The Audit Committee also oversee the dedicated whistleblowing facility for all employees, which allows them to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
Michael Shallow, who as a chartered accountant and a former Chief Financial Of cer of Greene King plc between 1991 and 2005, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The other Committee members are John Hodson, and with effect from 17 April 2009, Dianne Thompson and Peter Klauber.
Therefore, prior 36 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 to the appointment of Dianne Thompson and Peter Klauber on 17 April 2009, the constitution of the Audit Committee was not in accordance with provision C. 3.1 of the Code which requires the Audit Committee to consist of at least three independent NonExecutive Directors although as a smaller company for Code purposes in 2008, the Company was compliant with provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Financial Controller and representatives of the external auditors regularly attend Committee meetings.
The Committee met three times during the year.
When appropriate, the Committee has private meetings with the external auditors during the year and the Chairman of the Committee holds preparatory meetings with senior management prior to Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee and Board have again during the year considered the internal processes of the Group and do not feel that the process review would be enhanced by a formal internal audit function, given the nature of the Groups operations.
This will be subject to annual review by the Committee.
The engagement and independence of external auditors is considered annually by the Committee before it recommends its selection to the Board.
As at the date of this report and for the year under review, the Committee has satis ed itself that Ernst & Young LLP is independent and that there are adequate controls in place to safeguard its objectivity.
Ernst & Young LLP is also subject to professional standards which safeguard the integrity of the auditing role.
A formal policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditors in line with the Auditing Practice Boards Ethical Standards has been adopted during 2009.
This prohibits the external auditors from providing certain additional services to the Group such as bookkeeping, internal audit, valuations and financial systems design and implementation.
No such services have been provided in 2009.
The external auditors are, however, permitted to provide assurance services such as reporting accountants work and tax services.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees for 2009 are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
Executive Committee The Board delegates responsibility for implementing the Groups strategic plan and for management of the Group to the Executive Committee, which comprises the three Executive Directors and seven members of senior management with valuable operational experience, all of whom are Directors of the Groups main operating company, DPG.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Of cer.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as a Director of DPG.
The attendance of senior management departmental heads facilitates the communication of the Committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
The Committee has authority for decision-making in all areas except those reserved for Board decision and meets formally every week.
The Executive Committee members have collective responsibility for running the Groups business.
This involves developing the Groups strategy and budget for Board approval and monitoring the financial and operational performance of the business.
The Committee also plays a key role in risk management within the Group by conducting its own regular reviews of major risks.
Recommendations for risk assessment controls and mitigation strategies are reported to the Board in order to assist the Board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Risk management and internal control Accountabilities Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the Groups risk management system is designed both to encourage entrepreneurial spirit and also to provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls within the context of achieving the Groups objectives and the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and managing signi cant risks facing the business, which necessitates regular reviews of the systems effectiveness.
The Directors are aware that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Executive management is responsible for implementing Board strategies and maintaining the necessary control systems.
Methodology and monitoring The Groups brand and reputation is fundamental to its continued growth and success and therefore active management of operational and other risks is seen as being critical in ensuring that these are maintained as valuable assets.
A key part of the Groups review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls during the year has been the formal creation of a key risk register which contains the key risks faced by the business, including their impact and likelihood as well as the controls and procedures in place to mitigate these risks.
Risks are prioritised according to their expected likelihood of occurring and impact if they were to occur, both on the business and on employees and stakeholders in the business.
The content of the register was signed off by the Board during the year and was developed through discussions with senior management, the Companys auditors and the Board.
The Board has committed to undertake not less than annual reviews of the risk register, in addition to more regular meetings of DPG Directors chaired by the Company Secretary to review the risks facing the business, the associated controls and necessary actions to be taken.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate governance report continued In addition to the risk management system set out above, the key elements of internal control include: A Control Environment the presence of a clear organisational structure and well fide ned lines of responsibility and reporting.
B Financial Reporting a comprehensive system of budgets and forecasts with monthly reporting of actual results against targets, with the consolidated budget being reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
Also, comprehensive policies and procedures in relation to the Companys financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidation accounts.
C Control and Monitoring Procedures ensuring authorisation levels and procedures and other systems of internal financial controls are documented, applied and regularly reviewed.
Monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Audit Committee reviews regularly, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control by undertaking reviews of the documentation and processes described above.
The Audit Committee also seeks regular feedback from the external auditors on internal control as part of its review of the interim and annual financial statements.
As a result of such reviews, necessary actions are taken to remedy any signi cant identi ed control failings or weaknesses.
Through the monitoring processes described above, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year ended 27 December 2009.
The Board satis ed itself that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups signi cant risks that has been in place for the period ended 27 December 2009 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements, that it is reviewed regularly by the Board, and that it meets the requirements of the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on the Code.
This review has not identi ed any failings or weaknesses which the Board has determined to be signi cant.
Relations with stakeholders As part of its Driven to Deliver philosophy, the Board is committed to having a constructive dialogue with all stakeholders to ensure that the Group understands what is important to them and to allow the Group the opportunity to regularly present its position.
The Board nds that working with stakeholders in partnership can help deliver shared goals, especially in the case of the Groups franchisees.
The Group might not be able to satisfy all stakeholder concerns all the time but engagement assists the Group in balancing competing demands.
The Group is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company, therefore it is committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders through proactively organising meetings and presentations, as well as responding to a wide range of enquiries.
As mentioned above, during the year, the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer met major shareholders in the UK, US and mainland Europe to gain a rsthand understanding of their concerns and key issues.
These meetings focused primarily on the Groups trading operations and immediate prospects.
The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive Directors are available for shareholders as required.
Institutional investors and analysts are also invited to brie ngs by the Company after the announcement of its interim and preliminary results.
The Companys financial PR advisors obtain feedback for the Board from brokers analysts.
The Board is aware of 12 analysts who have published notes on the Company during 2009.
An investor relations summary is produced for each Board meeting by the Chief Financial Of cer and feedback is given on recent meetings with shareholders, via the advisors who organised the meetings.
The AGM offers the opportunity to communicate directly with all shareholders.
The whole Board attends the meeting and is available to answer questions from shareholders present.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld are indicated.
The results are announced at the meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Board also sees the Annual Report as a key method of communicating with shareholders and allowing them to gain a fuller understanding of the Boards strategic vision for the Company and what underpins delivery against this strategy in terms of financial performance and prospects.
By order of the Board Adam Batty Company Secretary 16 February 2010 38 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
