54 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the Combined Code It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on 1 January 2009, there has been full compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Combined Code is available at: www.
This section describes in broad terms how the Company is organised in terms of the overall structure and principal roles and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and other significant bodies.
Board of Directors Board Committees Audit Nominations Remuneration Health and Safety Chief Executive Executive Committee The Board of directors As at 22 February 2010, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The directors are named in the Directors report on page 51 and their principal commitments outside the Group are described within their biographical notes on pages 46 and 47.
The Board meets at least six times each year and more frequently if appropriate.
In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider Group strategy.
Charles Berry is the Chairman, having been appointed on 17 April 2008.
The Board considered that Charles Berry was independent on appointment as a director of the Company in December 2005.
Dorothy Thompson is the Chief Executive and is responsible for all aspects of the stewardship of the Group and its business, including developing an appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely and effective implementation.
She provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for the important external relationships with customers, suppliers, regulatory agencies and Government bodies.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing, was agreed by the Board on 14 December 2005 and was reviewed and varied by the Board on 23 October 2006.
Tony Quinlan is the Finance Director.
He is responsible for the financial management of the Group, and for relationships with the Groups bankers.
He is the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee of Drax Power Limited.
That committee provides reports to the Board on a monthly basis.
Peter Emery is the Production Director and is responsible for the operation, safety, repair and maintenance of the electricity generation plant at the power station and for the Drax site.
Mike Grasby was the manager of Drax Power Station between 1991 and 1995, whilst the power station was owned by National Power.
He has never held an executive position within the Company.
The Board considered that at the time he was appointed a non-executive director sufficient time had elapsed between him ceasing to be an employee and his appointment as a director to deem him independent at appointment.
Tim Barker, Jamie Dundas, Mike Grasby and David Lindsell have served the Group as independent non-executive directors throughout the year ended 31 December 2009.
Having reviewed their position, the Board has again concluded that each nonexecutive director is independent within the meaning of the Combined Code.
Tim Barker is the senior independent director.
Executive directors Nonexecutive directors Chairman Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 55 The Companys Articles provide that one-third of directors rounded down to the nearest whole number shall retire by rotation each year but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders and that directors shall not serve longer than the third Annual General Meeting AGM following their election without being re-elected by shareholders.
During the year, the Nominations Committee considered the requirements for directors to retire by rotation, together with the provisions of the Combined Code to ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Nominations Committee met on 16 February 2010, following the completion of the Board evaluation process, and identified Peter Emery and Mike Grasby to retire by rotation this year and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the next AGM.
The Board considers it appropriate that each of them be re-elected because of their individual experience and knowledge within the electricity generation sector and wider management and industry experience.
After performance evaluation, the Board has concluded that each continues to be effective and committed to their role.
Tim Barker, Jamie Dundas and Mike Grasby have letters of appointment for a six year term from 15 December 2005, subject to one months notice.
David Lindsell holds a letter of appointment for a three year term from 1 December 2008, subject to one months notice of termination.
Charles Berrys letter of appointment provides for a three-year term from 17 April 2008, subject to six months notice on either side.
It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, in the case of the independent non-executive directors, it is the Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of service of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years and, as required by the Combined Code, any proposal made to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond six years is the subject of a rigorous review.
Such reviews in cases where a director remains in office after six years, will be conducted annually as part of the evaluation of the Board.
Mike Grasby joined Drax in December 2003 and has therefore completed six years service since his initial appointment.
The evaluation of the Board concluded that Mike continues to demonstrate commitment to his particular role and performs effectively.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and formal terms of reference for its committees which are available to view on the Groups website at www.
The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite for risk particularly in its trading activities : the internal control and risk management policies: the business plan and key performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference of Board committees: and the Board structure, composition and succession.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a scheme of delegation approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the business plan and periodic business reports from senior management.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed at meetings by papers distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
During 2009 no director sought independent legal advice pursuant to the policy.
The Companys Articles give the directors power to approve conflicts of interest.
The Board has adopted a procedure by which situations giving rise to potential conflicts of interest are identified to the Board, considered for authorisation and recorded.
Under the proposed new Articles of Association certain conflicts of interest do not need to be authorised, for example an interest as a director of a group company.
Generally the nature and extent of any conflict of interest must be disclosed before it can be authorised or before it is permitted without being authorised but the proposed new Articles of Association provide for some situations in which disclosure is not required where knowledge can be presumed and disclosure is unlikely to be necessary.
The proposed new Articles of Association also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in group companies without restriction e. g. so as to appoint a director to the board of a group company without this counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide discharge by the director of his or her duties.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Performance reviews and directors development The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
During the year, the Company undertook a review to assess the performance of the Board and its committees.
This was facilitated by Equity Communications Limited, a consultancy specialising in providing assurance to listed companies on best practice in company regulation and corporate governance.
The directors and Company Secretary each completed questionnaires on the Board and committee performance and on the performance of each individual.
Equity Communications Limited met with each individual to discuss the questionnaires and issues arising from them, and attended a board meeting to present its report on the process and its findings.
Individual feedback sessions were later conducted by the Chairman, and by the senior independent director in relation to the Chairman.
The conclusions were that the Board and its committees were effective and performance compared well with that of other companies, and that each director continued to perform effectively in their role.
During the year, the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors as required by provision A.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically again review each individual directors development requirements and make appropriate arrangements to address them.
All new directors receive an induction, including information about the Company and their responsibilities, meetings with key managers and visits to the Companys site.
In addition, specific Board training days are arranged involving presentations on relevant topics.
Committees of the Board The Board has established the following standing committees: Committee Membership 1 Audit Committee David Lindsell as Chairman, Tim Barker and Jamie Dundas.
Remuneration Committee Tim Barker as Chairman, Charles Berry, Jamie Dundas, Mike Grasby and David Lindsell.
Nominations Committee Charles Berry as Chairman, Tim Barker, Jamie Dundas, Mike Grasby and David Lindsell.
Health and Safety Committee Mike Grasby as Chairman, Dorothy Thompson, Peter Emery and the Drax Power Head of Safety.
Note: 1 Jamie Dundas was Chairman of the Audit Committee until the conclusion of AGM, at which point he stood down as Chairman and David Lindsell was appointed to the role.
Mike Grasby was a member of the Audit Committee until the conclusion of the AGM at which point he stood down as a member.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 60 to 75.
The terms of reference for these Committees are reviewed annually by each Committee and then by the Board.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Groups website at www.
The Board attaches particular importance to the role of its Health and Safety Committee because of the fundamental importance of safety systems and procedures in a large and complex plant such as that of Drax Power Station.
The Committees terms of reference provide for it to review policy, monitor performance and hold management accountable for the efficacy of the Groups health and safety procedures and performance.
There is also an Executive Committee through which the Chief Executive discharges her duties in respect of the day-to-day management of the Company.
The Executive Committee membership currently comprises: Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive, Sean Ebnet Director of New Business, Peter Emery Production Director, Philip Hudson General Counsel and Company Secretary, Tony Quinlan Finance Director and Paul Taylor Director of Trading.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 57 Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings, and attendance at them by directors, of the Board, Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, and Health and Safety Committees of Drax Group plc during 2009.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
Years on Years Audit Nominations Remuneration Health and Safety 1 2 the Board with Drax Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Tim Barker 4 5 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 Charles Berry 4 4 7 7 2 2 3 3 Jamie Dundas 4 4 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 Peter Emery 4 5 7 7 2 2 Mike Grasby 4 6 7 7 2 2 2 2 3 3 2 2 David Lindsell 1 1 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 Tony Quinlan 1 1 7 7 Dorothy Thompson 4 4 7 7 1 2 Notes: 1 This includes both the time spent on the Board of Drax Group plc and also the effective predecessor companies Drax Group Limited and Drax Power Limited.
2 In addition to the Board meetings identified above, there have also been five teleconference calls to discuss various matters such as the refinancing and share placement and there is a meeting held annually to consider strategy.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in place for the year under review up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups risk management process aims to be comprehensive, systematic and continuous.
Its key features include the identification and recording of the main risks facing the Group in a risk register with clear allocation of management responsibility for risk identification, analysis and control.
The Group has comprehensive and well defined control policies with clear structures, delegated authority levels and accountabilities.
During the year, the Executive Committee reviewed the risk management process and the controls applicable to the most significant risks facing the Group.
The Group has a system of planning and monitoring, which incorporates Board approval of a rolling five year business plan and approval, towards the end of each year, of operating and capital expenditure budgets for the year ahead.
Performance against the budget is subsequently monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Board also receives monthly reports on trading risk exposure as compared to the pre-set limits and monitors overall Company performance against a corporate balanced scorecard which shows progress against a set of financial, operating, safety and other targets set at the start of the year.
Performance is reported formally to shareholders through the publication of Group results.
Operational management make frequent reports on performance to the executive directors.
Management of commodity trading risk is undertaken by a Risk Management Committee of the principal operating subsidiary, Drax Power Limited, chaired by the Finance Director.
The Board receives a summary report from the Risk Management Committee each month.
58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Through the Audit Committee the Board has implemented a programme of internal audit reviews of different aspects of the Groups activities.
The programme, which is reviewed and updated annually, is designed so that, over time, all facets of the business are reviewed to ensure appropriate systems of control are in place and are working effectively or, where they are not, deficiencies are rectified by timely and appropriate action.
In agreeing the actions to be taken in response to each report, the aim is always to embed internal controls, including measures intended effectively to identify and manage risk, within each area of the Groups operations.
In parallel with its work in relation to internal audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies itself that an action plan for dealing with points raised by the external auditors in their yearly management letters is being properly addressed by management.
With the assistance of the Audit Committee, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
It has reviewed the reports of the Audit Committee, which has considered all significant aspects of internal control including financial, operational, trading, compliance, social, environmental and ethical risks in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and updated in October 2005.
Following its review the Board determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control.
Relations with shareholders The Board places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and evaluating systematically the economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of shareholders.
A number of formal communication channels are used to account to shareholders for the performance of the Group, which include the Annual report and accounts, the AGM and periodic reports to the London Stock Exchange.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the investor community are available to all shareholders to download from the Groups website.
Less formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by the Chairman and other directors.
Major shareholders are regularly offered the opportunity to meet with the Chairman.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director in the UK, Europe and the USA.
These took place following both the preliminary and half year results announcements in 2009.
The Company has also engaged Makinson Cowell, an independent capital markets consultancy firm, to advise and assist in relation to communications with shareholders.
The Companys private registered shareholders hold approximately 1% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an oral response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
This Annual report and accounts together with other public announcements is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans introduction, Chief Executives statement, Business review, and Corporate responsibility review provide an assessment of the Groups affairs.
This Annual report and accounts is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM and the accompanying Form of Proxy provides for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to indicate abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged will be announced to the London Stock Exchange via a regulatory information service and placed on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 59 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and accounts, Remuneration Committee Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Regular review meetings are held with the website administrators to ensure that the website is continually maintained to a high standard.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the Business review, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Dorothy Thompson Tony Quinlan Chief Executive Finance Director 22 February 2010 22 February 2010
