Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 63 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee comprises Charles Berry as Chairman, Tim Barker, Jamie Dundas, Mike Grasby and David Lindsell.
The biographical notes of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The principal duties of the Committee are to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge and experience required by it, to consider succession planning for the directors and other senior managers, to identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies among the directors and to review the time required from non-executive directors.
It also reviews those directors retiring by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles and makes recommendations to the Board regarding their re-election.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Groups website at www.
The Committee met on two occasions in 2009, and the members attendance record is set out on page 57.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees deliberations to the following Board meeting and, subject to redaction in the event that they include personal information, the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members of the Board.
During the year, the Committee considered the succession planning process for the directors and senior managers and concluded that it was appropriate for the business.
The outcome of the process which it initiated for the review of the performance of the Board and individual directors is reported in the Corporate governance report on pages 54 to 59.
In September 2009, the Committee considered a paper setting out the requirements for directors to retire by rotation, together with the provisions of the Combined Code to ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the board.
It was noted that Tim Barker and Mike Grasby were each approaching six years service since their appointment as directors of Drax Power Limited, and that the extension of terms beyond six years should be subject to particularly rigorous review.
The Committee met on 16 February 2010, following the completion of the Board evaluation process, and identified, Peter Emery and Mike Grasby to retire by rotation this year and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the next AGM.
The Board considers it appropriate that each of them be re-elected because of their individual experience and knowledge within the electricity generation sector, wider management and industry experience.
After performance evaluation, the Board has concluded that each continues to be effective and committed to their role.
The executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the Annual General Meeting, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 22 February 2010.
Charles Berry Chairman, Nominations Committee
