GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to the principle and application of sound Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by any Director during corporate governance.
The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and The Company has complied throughout the financial year with all the changing commercial risks.
On appointment, new Directors are given provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the FRC appropriate induction training, including site visits to major business units.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006.
The Board has an ongoing review of its corporate governance policy.
During the year, the Board carried out a comprehensive appraisal which Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have was led by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director with the been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
assistance of an independent third party.
The Board used external support The Companys Auditors have reviewed the compliance with those for the review process to give a degree of independence to the process.
provisions of the Combined Code specified for their review.
The Board concluded that the review process showed that the Board and its Committees operated effectively.
The review resulted in an action plan BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES aimed at further enhancing the effectiveness of the Board.
The review The role of the Board comprised feedback from a questionnaire and individual discussions.
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the All Directors and the Company Secretary participated in the exercise.
Company by directing and supervising the Companys affairs.
The Boards The appraisal included the performance of Board Committees, although role is to provide leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent a separate and more detailed appraisal of the Audit Committee was also and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
carried out during the year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted a review of the performance of the Chairman which concluded The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary that the Chairman had led the Board effectively.
The Non-Executive financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its Directors met separately in April to give them the opportunity to discuss objectives, and reviews management performance.
any matters they wished to raise in the absence of the Chairman.
In addition, the Board sets the Companys values and standards and Board Committees ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and met.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive and four comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Group Chief Executive Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive are held separately.
Mr R G Beeston is the Senior Independent Director.
All Board Committees have written terms of reference As referred to in the Chairmans Statement on page 6, MrGMB Adams agreed by the Board.
These are available on the Companys website at became Chief Executive of Spicers, the Groups Office Products Wholesaling www.
asp or are available division, with effect from 16 June 2009.
As a result of this appointment on request to the Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee is chaired by he resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 26 May 2009.
As previously Mr C J Bunker, the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Beeston and announced, Mr J C Nicholls will join the Board with effect from 1 December the Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr P M Johnson.
The membership 2009 and MrRECMarton will retire from the Board on 31 August 2009, of each Committee and the experience of its members can be seen on having served nine years as a Non-Executive Director.
During the year, pages 36 and 37.
The Board has used the criteria proposed by the each of the Non-Executive Directors has at all times acted independently National Association of Pension Funds for determining whether a Nonof management and has no relationships which would materially interfere Executive Director is independent.
with the exercise of their independent judgement and decision making.
Audit Committee The Board meets a minimum of eight times per year.
During the year In addition to the Committee members listed on pages 36 and 37, the under review it met eight times.
All Board members attend all Board and Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the relevant Committee meetings unless exceptional circumstances prevent Head of Operational Audit and the Group Financial Controller attended them from attending.
During the year, Mr Marton did not attend the Board parts of each meeting by invitation.
Mr Adams ceased to be a member meeting or the Remuneration Committee meeting held in May 2008.
There of the Committee when he resigned from the Board on 26 May 2009. were no other absences from any Board or Committee meetings by any The Board is satisfied that Mr Bunker has both current and relevant Director.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and Group financial experience.
Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all Directors and hold The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which meets at least three informal meetings with Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting times a year, include all the matters indicated by the Combined Code the Company.
Once a year the Board visits a business unit and receives a except the oversight of business risks which is the direct responsibility presentation from local management.
Individual Directors are encouraged of the Board.
The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist to make additional site visits during the year.
The Board continually the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to: reviews the performance of all of the divisions and undertakes a strategic review on an annual basis.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the for consideration and approval for the Board.
These include the annual Groups accounts: Plan, substantial acquisitions and disposals, the approval of the full-year external financial reporting and associated announcements: and half-year results and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management.
the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration of the Groups Auditors: The Board and its Committees, as detailed below, receive timely information of a quality that enables them to carry out their roles the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of the Group Operational effectively.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Audit department: Company Secretary.
A procedure is in place for any Director to take the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial control environment: and independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the 38 www.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate it carried out an appraisal of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee Governance.
as part of the Board evaluation process referred to on page 38, the external Auditors and Group Operational Audit, the results of which The Committee receives and reviews regular reports from the external were reported to the Board.
The Committee concluded that each area Auditors, the Head of Operational Audit and the Group Finance Director.
operated satisfactorily during the year: and The Committee meets with the external Auditors to determine annually it oversaw the continuing development and the operation of the Groups their qualifications, expertise, resources, independence, objectivity, and Workplace Malpractice Policy.
The Audit Committee receives written confirmation from the external Auditors as to any relationships that might have a bearing on their Nomination Committee independence, whether they consider themselves independent within the Mr Bunker became a member of the Committee in December 2008. meaning of the UK regulatory and professional requirements, their quality The Nomination Committee considers the appointment of Directors, control processes and ethical standards.
reviews succession planning at Board level and makes recommendations to the Board as a whole.
A rigorous process is in place for the The Committee monitors compliance with the Boards policy in respect of services provided by, and fees paid to, auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated appointment of new Directors, involving the use of external recruitment with the Group Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee.
consultants followed by meetings both with the Committee and then with The policy on the supply of non-audit services by external auditors is as the Board.
The Committee met four times during the year and there were follows.
The Group should not employ the Auditors to provide non-audit no absences.
services where either the nature of the work or the extent of such services Remuneration Committee might impair the Auditors independence or objectivity.
The external The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend these meetings Auditors are permitted to undertake some non-audit services, providing by invitation, except when their remuneration is being discussed.
The they have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration best interests of the Group, on, for example, advisory services and due of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary and diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions and disposals for advising on the remuneration of senior management.
The Remuneration and major changes in accounting regulations.
Non-audit services and fees Report is set out on pages 41 to 48.
During the year, the Committee are reported to the Audit Committee twice a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to the external Auditors should not exceed 75% met four times.
Mr Marton did not attend the meeting in May 2008, of the annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the but otherwise there were no absences.
Committee: during 2008 09, non-audit fees were 10% of the annual Other Board Committees Group audit fee.
Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought The Board has delegated certain powers, mainly of a routine nature, to the as required by this Group policy which specifies that individual projects General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief Executive which would cost over 100,000 must be referred to the Chairman of and the Group Finance Director under the chairmanship of the Group the Committee for prior approval.
Deloitte LLP, a leading international audit partnership, was first appointed Conicts of interest as Auditor to the Group companies in 2006 and its fees are regularly At the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008, the Companys compared with peer companies by the Committee.
There are no contractual Articles of Association were amended following implementation of the restrictions on the Group with regard to its appointment.
In accordance with professional standards, the partner responsible for the audit is changed relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 to permit the Board of every five years.
Directors to authorise a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest notified by a Director provided that the Board considers this to be in the During the year, the Committee met on three occasions and there were no best interests of the Company.
On each of these occasions the Committee also met privately with both the external Auditors and the Head of Operational Audit.
The Each of the Directors reviewed their individual positions prior to the Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private meetings implementation date for the new legislation of 1 October 2008.
The during the year with the external Auditors, the Head of Operational Company has put procedures in place via the Company Secretary Audit and the Group Finance Director.
whereby the Directors can notify any future conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that may arise so that the Board can consider At its meeting in June, the Committee reviewed the annual financial whether authorisation is appropriate.
statements of the Company and received reports from Group Operational Audit on internal control matters and from the external Auditors on the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgement and the financial statements and their comments on statements concerning The Company has a programme of regular meetings which sometimes risk and internal control.
A similar review was undertaken in December when includes the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, site visits the half-year results were considered.
At these meetings and the meeting and results briefings with its major institutional shareholders, which in April, the Committee dealt with the following particular matters: provides opportunities to discuss the progress of the business.
The Board also receives feedback from major shareholders in the form it reviewed the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and Group of independently prepared reports.
The Annual General Meeting Operational Audit: is used as an opportunity to communicate with private shareholders, at each meeting it received a report from the Head of Operational including a short presentation on the business and current trading Audit covering, amongst other things, the work undertaken by the Group position as well as an opportunity for questions from investors to the Operational Audit function and management responses to proposals Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year: Committees.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the full-year and half-year reports and via the Companys website it considered the effectiveness of systems for monitoring and reporting on risks faced by the Group: www.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2009 39 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROL divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and to The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal report any significant control weaknesses identified during the past control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It also involved reviewing the results of the work of the Groups can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can Operational Audit function and the risk identification and management therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against processes identified above.
In accordance with the Turnbull Committee guidance, the Company established the procedures necessary to ensure GOING CONCERN that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely the significant risks to the Group.
These procedures have been in place for to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2009 and up to the date of pages 7 to 9 of the Chief Executives review of the year.
The financial the approval of these financial statements and they are reviewed regularly.
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing In April 2008 a Group Risks Committee was established, comprised of the facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow, the accompanying Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Human notes to the financial statements on pages 54 to 106 and in the Financial Resources Director, the Company Secretary, the Divisional Chief Executives Review on pages 22 to 26.
Further information concerning the Groups and the Head of Operational Audit.
This Committee meets at least four objectives, policies and process for managing its capital, its financial risk times a year to review the risks faced by the Group and the adequacy and management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging suitability of the mitigation arrangements in place to manage those risks.
activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the section covering risk management on pages 27 to 29.
The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Group.
It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters which are required Managements review of liquidity and the adherence to banking to be brought to it for decision.
The Board has delegated to management covenants takes into account the Groups budget and forecasts for the the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate next two financial years.
Furthermore, the forecasts have been subjected to the business environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements to a number of downside and mitigation scenarios in order to evaluate of this system include: the impact on liquidity and adherence to banking covenants if the Groups plans are not achieved.
A summary of the outcome of this evaluation a set of Key Corporate Values which have been communicated to by management has been provided to, and discussed with, the Board all employees: of Directors.
a clearly defined divisionalised organisation structure for monitoring In arriving at their opinion, the Directors have taken into account the the conduct and operations of individual business units: risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current economic clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the environment.
These risks are described in the section covering risk matters reserved for the Board: management pages 27 to 29.
The planning assumptions and sensitivities of these risks are covered on pages 27 to 29.
The principal risks and a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Groups uncertainties which would have a direct impact on liquidity and banking operations are identified and assessed on a regular basis, together covenants are summarised below: with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration is embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks changes in the demand for, or pricing of, the Groups products and are periodically reported to the Board and considered by it: services as a result of general economic conditions or market-specific factors: the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Board of volatility of pricing and availability of globally-traded raw materials: the corporate strategy: volatile and increasing energy prices: the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget, movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates: forecasts including bank covenant headroom and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all significant variances: the funding position of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme: clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment, the continuing availability of banking facilities, including compliance including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital with borrowing covenants: and projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: customer credit risk.
procedures manuals laying down common control procedures and The Directors consider that the Group has the flexibility to react to policies to apply throughout the Group: and changing market conditions.
The action programme announced in formal monthly meetings between the Group Chief Executive, December 2008 is described on pages 7 to 9, and management will the Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss take further actions, including additional restructuring, as may be strategic, operational and financial issues.
appropriate to the changing circumstances.
The Groups Operational Audit function undertakes regular reviews of The Board has considered the risks and uncertainties as summarised above the Groups operations and their systems of internal control and internal and after making enquiries, including a review of recent performance, the financial control.
The work of the function is overseen by the Audit Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial Committee, which regularly reviews its plans and activities.
The Directors statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable system of internal control.
This included a process of self-certification by future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in senior divisional management in which they are asked to confirm that their preparing the financial statements.
