Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 12 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent on governance.
This report explains how the Group has applied the appointment, and that Marion Sears, Simon Emeny and Nick principles of good governance and code of best practice set out in Wharton are independent.
Overall the Board considers that there the Combined Code dated 2008. is a good balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout the financial year the Group has complied with the Directors are required to retire from the Board by rotation and offer Combined Code except that Geoff Cooper, Group Chairman, is themselves for re-election at least every three years.
also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Given the balance of other independent Non-Executive Directors who sit on the committee Board committees this is not considered to result in the Chairman exercising undue The Audit Committee was chaired during the year by Geoff influence over the committee.
Cooper, the other members being Marion Sears and Simon Emeny.
The Board considers that Geoff Cooper has recent and Going forward, the committee will be chaired by Nick Wharton.
relevant financial experience by virtue of his professional The Board considers that Nick Wharton has recent and relevant qualification and his current executive role with Travis Perkins plc.
financial experience by virtue of his professional qualification and his current role as Finance Director of Halfords Group plc.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, The committee is scheduled to meet at least three times a year, to making decisions relating to the Groups strategic direction and coincide with key dates in the Groups financial reporting and audit measuring progress towards strategic goals.
During the period under review it met in September, February and May with full attendance.
The Finance Director The Board has 10 scheduled meetings per annum, including one usually attends meetings by invitation, along with a representative strategy meeting.
There was full attendance at all Board and from the external auditors.
Committee meetings during the year except that Geoff Cooper was absent from one Board meeting.
The principal responsibilities of the committee are to: monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision public announcements relating to financial performance: or approval, which is available on the Groups website or from the oversee the external audit process, including the appointment Company Secretary.
Examples of such matters include Group of the auditors, their objectiveness and independence and the strategy and budget, Group capital structure, approval of financial scope and effectiveness of the audit: results and report and accounts, significant capital or contractual monitor the effectiveness of internal controls and consider commitments, maintaining internal control and risk management, annually the need for an internal audit function: and and approval of Group-wide policies.
review the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive reports on operational performance including health and safety and the Finance Director During the year the committee: reports on financial performance.
Other matters are discussed by approved the interim results issued in February: the Board as required, supported by a briefing paper where a decided that an internal audit function was not required in view decision is to be made by the Board.
of the adequacy of financial controls in place: confirmed the Groups policy for use of the auditors for Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the non-audit advice: Company Secretary and committee secretaries respectively and verified the independence of the auditors, and approved the circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a scope of the audit plan and the audit fee: and Director are recorded in the minutes.
reviewed the business continuity plans in place.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors meet from The committee met privately with the auditors in the course of time to time without Executive Directors being present, and each meeting during the period.
regularly have individual meetings with other senior managers in the business.
In addition the Non-Executive Directors have the The committee has approved a policy which allows employees opportunity to meet at least once a year without the Chairman to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear present as part of the appraisal process.
Directors The committee has also approved a policy that the auditors should The Non-Executive Chairman is Geoff Cooper and the Chief only be used for non-audit work if they offer demonstrably better Executive is Will Adderley.
The Board has adopted a written capability than alternative providers and there is no potential statement setting out their respective responsibilities.
In general conflict with the independence of the audit.
terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Marion Sears, the other members are Geoff Cooper, Simon Emeny and with effect The other Non-Executive Directors are Marion Sears, Simon from 14 August 2009, Nick Wharton.
The Chief Executive normally Emeny and Nick Wharton appointed on 14 August 2009.
Stead is an Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director is Marion Sears.
Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 13 The committee has adopted terms of reference which are available Powers of Directors on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, the business of the Company is managed by the The committees responsibilities include: Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, recommending to the Board the specific pay and benefits subject to the requirements of the Companies Acts, the packages for the Executive Directors, including pensions and Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and any compensation payments: any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board recommending and monitoring the level and structure of pay has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with and benefits for senior management: and the Combined Code, and these set out matters which are implementing any awards made under share incentive schemes.
reserved to the Board or Committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman and Chief Executive respectively.
During the year the committee met three times with full attendance and: At the Annual General Meetings of the Company in 2007 and 2008 determined the pay reviews and incentive arrangements for the Board sought and was given authority to issue shares and to Executive Directors: buy back and reissue shares, subject to the limits imposed by law determined the annual bonus payable to Executive Directors and those set out in the text of the resolution.
Similar resolutions in respect of the year ending 28 June 2008: and are being tabled at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
For further approved conditional share awards to be made to Executive details see pages 20 and 21 of the Directors Report and Business Directors under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Review, and the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 53 and 54.
Further details of the committees activities are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 15.
Advice and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The Nominations Committee is chaired by Marion Sears, the Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek legal advice at other members are Geoff Cooper, Simon Emeny and with effect the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection with from 14 August 2009, Nick Wharton.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are available The Group purchases Directors and Officers Liability insurance on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
The committees responsibilities include: Training reviewing the composition and balance of the Board: Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a Board succession planning: and comprehensive induction programme with visits to key sites and making recommendations on appointments to the Board meetings with senior managers and other staff members.
including reappointments at Annual General Meeting.
Throughout the year all Directors have maintained a regular series of visits to stores and meetings with members of the senior During the year the committee met three times with management team.
The Board has also received presentations full attendance.
from independent advisers on financial policy, IT developments and on retail sector trends.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director Evaluation may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the with regard to personal objectives agreed at the start of each Director stands down and offers himself for election at the next financial year.
The Chief Executive similarly appraises the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide performance of the Finance Director.
that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least There is a well established process for evaluating the performance every three years.
of the Chairman, the other Non-Executive Directors, the Board Committees and the Board as a whole.
This takes the form of a Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, Board meeting convened solely for the purpose of such review.
or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given During the course of this meeting there is the opportunity for the in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles also Chairman or other individual Directors to be asked to leave the provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is discussion whilst their performance is assessed.
prohibited by law from being a director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his office be vacated if he is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
Annual General Meeting Financial statements Governance Business review Dunelm Group plc Annual report & accounts 2009 14 Corporate governance report continued Conflicts of interest Articles of Association The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of public companies to The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of individual special resolution of shareholders.
directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, new Articles of Risk management and internal control Association were adopted which give the Board this authority Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual subject to the following safeguards: Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain by the Group which has been regularly reviewed by the Audit from voting.
Committee and the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Only directors who have no interest in the matter being Guidance on Internal Control for Directors on the Combined Code considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in revised June 2008. taking that decision and the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the A register of strategic and operational risks is maintained and success of the Company.
reviewed quarterly by the Board, who also monitor the status of The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when agreed actions to mitigate key risks.
giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of Following the adoption of the Articles of Association, all Directors internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However such a were requested to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Board and the following matters were considered and approved: failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to other reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Adderley and misstatement.
continues to abide by the terms of the relationship Agreement entered into between himself, other major shareholders and the The Group maintains a well established control framework Company on flotation of the Company in 2006. comprising clear structures and accountabilities, well understood Geoff Cooper is a director of Travis Perkins plc: and Nick policies and procedures and budgeting and review processes.
Wharton is a director of Halfords Group Plc, each of which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Each store manager has clear responsibilities and operates within Authorised on the basis that Mr Cooper is not involved in day to defined policies and procedures covering such areas as financial day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in either targets, human resources management, customer service, health company: and Mr Wharton to absent himself from any meeting and safety etc.
The Executive Directors monitor compliance with of the Company in which property matters are to be discussed these policies and procedures in the course of regular reviews.
and a conflict of interest might arise.
Investor relations There were no other matters disclosed that were considered by There is a formal investor relations programme based around the Board to reasonably give rise to a conflict of interest.
results presentations and trading statements.
In addition analyst shareholder visits are arranged.
All of the Non-Executive Directors Any conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations are available to attend meetings at shareholder request.
The given are recorded in the Board minutes reviewed annually by Chairman and Executive Directors feed back any investor the Board.
The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
Significant shareholders The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors report on page 19 voting rights are stated on page 18.
