Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Corporate Governance The Board continues in its determination to aim for the highest standards of corporate governance and professional integrity.
In accordance with the Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company is required to state whether it has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code and where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
The Company is also required to set out how it has applied the principles set out within the Code.
The following paragraphs together with the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38 provide details of how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
Operation of the Board The primary roles of the Board are to determine overall strategy and business objectives, ensure structure and capital are sufficient to meet business needs, maintain and monitor effective systems for financial reporting, internal control, contracts and communication, regularly review board membership, consider remuneration issues upon recommendation from the Remuneration Committee, to delegate authority as appropriate, ensure standards of corporate governance are maintained and attend to other Company policies.
All of these functions are recorded in a Schedule of Matters reserved to the Board for its decision approval.
Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined organisation structure exists within which individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors.
The conduct of the Groups individual businesses is delegated to the divisional management teams.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group policies and guidelines.
Throughout the year the Board was again led by its Chairman, Charles Berry, who also continues to chair the Nomination Committee.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which has been agreed by the Board and set out in writing.
Malcolm Simpson fulfilled the role of Senior Independent Director SID until this position passed to Roger Aylard on his appointment to the Board.
All Directors have disclosed any additional appointments or other business interests outside of the Company.
In particular, the Board has considered the relationship between the Company and Stratagem NI Limited, in which Quintin Oliver is a Director.
The Board has determined that the business relationship between the two organisations does not impugn Quintins independence.
The Board also satisfied itself that the Chairman was independent from the Company at the time of his appointment and the other Non-Executive Directors have at all times been independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board operates three committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities and each of which operate within Board approved terms of reference.
The terms of reference of each committee can be viewed on the Companys website.
Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee was chaired by Malcolm Simpson, who was supported by two independent NonExecutive Directors, Quintin Oliver and Tracy Clarke.
Roger Aylard also joined the Audit Committee upon his appointment to the Board.
The Committee has at all times consisted and will continue in the future to consist of not less than three independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom will have relevant financial experience.
Malcolm Simpson, the Chair of the Committee and former Finance Director of Greggs plc has been assessed as having this relevant financial experience.
A quorum is two members and the Committee has met and shall continue to meet a minimum of four times each year.
40 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Continued The Committees main functions are to endeavour: to ensure that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: to monitor the integrity and clarity of the financial statements and information published by the Company: to review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and approach to risk management: to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function: to assess the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and to set policy regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to appointment of external auditors.
The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual and interim financial statements issued to shareholders, compliance with financial reporting standards and the size and remit of the internal audit function.
The Committee determines the scope of the external audit in discussion with the external auditors, agrees their fees in respect of the audit and makes a recommendation to the Board as to whether the auditors should be reappointed.
The Committee has a policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors which provides that the total fees payable for such work in any financial year should not normally be more than 80% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
The Committee normally meets the Finance Director and the internal audit team with the Chief Executive in attendance outside of scheduled Committee meetings.
Time is also set aside annually for discussion between the Committee, the external auditors and the internal audit team in the absence of all Executive Directors.
The Committee, in common with all of the Non-Executive Directors personally, has the authority to engage and take advice from independent external advisors if it sees fit at the Companys expense.
The Committee also has access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee was chaired by Tracy Clarke, who was supported by two independent NonExecutive Directors, Quintin Oliver and Malcolm Simpson.
Roger Aylard also joined the Committee upon his appointment to the Board.
All are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee must consist and has at all times consisted of not less than three members who are independent Non-Executive Directors.
A quorum is two members and the Committee meets a minimum of twice each year.
There were six meetings during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is primarily responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy including benefits, pension arrangements and termination payments relating to the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management of the Company: ensuring the market compatibility and structures necessary to ensure appropriate levels of remuneration and incentive.
The full Remuneration Committee Report can be found on pages 33 to 38.
Nomination Committee During the year the Nomination Committee was chaired by Charles Berry.
Additional members were John Clough until his retirement, Drew Johnson on his appointment as CEO, Dave Routledge and Quintin Oliver.
Malcolm Simpson sat as a member until Roger Aylard became a member of the Committee on appointment to the Board.
Dave Routledge stepped down from the Nomination Committee on 23 July 2009.
During the year the Committee consisted of five members, three of whom were Independent Non-Executive Members including the Chairman.
The Committee currently consists of four members, being the Chairman, one Executive Director and two Independent Non-Executive Directors.
A quorum is three members two of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets a minimum of once each year.
There were seven meetings during the year.
The Committees role is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and to support and assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are best able to fulfil the responsibilities of Directors.
Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 The Committees responsibilities include: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board together with assessing the skills, knowledge, expertise and diversity of individual Directors: establishing processes for the review of the performance of individual Directors, Board Committees and the Board as a whole: establishing processes for the identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board: preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment: giving full consideration to succession planning for the Board: and reviewing the performance of any Director retiring by rotation who is planning to stand for re-election.
The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours.
Performance Evaluation Having undergone an external performance evaluation process which was undertaken by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators in the previous financial year and acted upon the recommendations, the Board decided to undertake an internal evaluation process which has been completed.
The evaluation considered the main Board, each sub-committee and the individual Directors and concluded that the Board and sub-committees were operating and performing effectively.
Relationship with Shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective investor relations and communication programme as part of its ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors and broker analysts, providing them with such information on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted under the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, following announcement of the interim and full-year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director where they have the opportunity to raise any questions as appropriate.
The Companys main institutional shareholders have been advised that in line with the provisions of the Code, the SID and the other Non-Executive Directors may attend those briefings and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
The Chairman is briefed periodically on investors perceptions and such issues are discussed in the context of regular Board meetings.
The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop their understanding of the Company and ask questions of the Board on matters put to the meeting including the Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial Reporting The financial position of the Company and its Group companies has been presented in a number of ways during the year to ensure shareholders and potential shareholders can make a balanced assessment of the Company.
This has included and will continue to include: Interim Management Statements: Half yearly Report and Accounts: and Announcements regarding significant developments which may affect the share price.
Going Concern The Directors confirm that after having reviewed the Groups budget and projected cash flows they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and its Group companies have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
42 Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance Continued Attendance at Meetings The table below sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination No.
of meetings held 8 4 6 7 Meetings attended Roger Aylard 2 of 2 1 of 1 1 of 1 2 of 2 Charles Berry 8 7 Tracy Clarke 8 4 6 John Clough MBE 4 of 7 3 of 6 Drew Johnson 8 1 of 1 Ian McLeod 8 Dave Routledge 7 7 Quintin Oliver 7 3 5 5 Malcolm Simpson 7 4 6 6 of 6 Appointed 1 April 2009 Retired 27 April 2009 Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
The matters contained within the Matters Reserved to the Board ensure that the Directors control all significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
Dave Routledge is the designated Executive Director with responsibility for health, safety, environment and security.
He regularly reports to the Board upon such issues.
Appropriate levels of insurance were in place during the year to cover Directors actions or omissions.
Internal Control The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code relating to internal controls, as required by the UK Listing Authority.
It has implemented the procedures necessary to comply and report in line with the Turnbull Guidance published in October 2005 on internal control.
The Board is responsible for implementing and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and cannot therefore provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The established internal control framework is continually reviewed and updated as appropriate to take into account the changing nature of the Groups business.
The system has been in place during the year and contains the following key elements: The Group has a dedicated risk management team and a Risk Review Board RRB which comprises Dave Routledge, the Group Operating Board and the Director of Health and Safety, Environment and Quality.
The RRB monitors and evaluates the risk registers compiled by each business area within the Group.
The major risks facing the business together with any mitigating action proposed and whether the action has been effective is reviewed by the RRB and presented to the full Board at each Board Meeting.
The RRB reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis regarding the effectiveness of the risk identification process and of the action plans for the mitigation of such identified risks.
The Executive Directors also undertake a formal annual assessment of the risks facing the Group.
The Group has an established integration process to ensure the risk management processes are introduced to any newly acquired business from acquisition with a plan to fully implement those systems as soon as reasonably practicable after acquisition.
The Group has a clearly identified organisational structure with defined reporting lines, duties and accountability.
There are defined authorisation limits for individual managers, with transactions being approved at the appropriate level of authority.
All parts of the business are required to comply with the policies and procedures set out in the Groups finance manual.
Business Review eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Financial forecasts are prepared by the Operating Board and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
Operational management have a monthly accountability review with the Executive Directors to identify any variances between forecast and actual results and to agree any necessary corrective or mitigating action.
Financial results and cash flows, including a comparison against forecast are reported to the Board at each Board meeting and forecasts are updated quarterly throughout the financial year.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
The Group has a formal whistleblowing policy for Partners who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities on a confidential basis.
All concerns reported are investigated by senior management.
The Groups internal audit team reports to the Audit Committee and the Board at least twice a year on the outcomes of work undertaken, which follows an approved internal audit programme.
The role of the Audit Committee is detailed earlier in this report.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, in accordance with the Combined Code and is satisfied that the Group is compliant.
An assessment is made of the financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
No significant failings or weaknesses have been identified in the year.
Compliance with the Code The Directors consider there has been substantial compliance with the Code throughout the year ended 31 May 2009.
The main exception is that until the appointment of Roger Aylard on 1 April 2009, there was an equal number of independent Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and Executive Directors following the death of Richard Burns in May 2008.
Rogers appointment was confirmed after an extensive recruitment process.
Until that appointment however, the composition of the Board was not in strict compliance with the Code which recommends that at least half the Board excluding the Chairman should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
On behalf of the Board Christopher Judd, Company Secretary 1 September 2009
