Corporate Governance Introduction The Board Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief of corporate governance.
Not many public companies Executive, four other Executive Directors and four state that they are committed to maintaining low Non-executive Directors: their details are set out standards of corporate governance, so we think it on pages 48 and 49. might be useful to set out, as precisely as we are able, what we mean by this.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital First, we mean that we take governance at all levels projects over a defined limit, annual budgets, new in the Company seriously, and we think about it.
Group borrowing facilities and significant changes Second, it means that we do not slavishly follow the to employee benefit schemes.
strictures and advice of every governance guru or expert body, but we try to adopt those approaches There is a defined division of responsibilities between that we believe are likely to work in the particular the Non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.
context of Aggrekos business and culture, and which The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective promote the following: working of the Board: the Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the business: for Transparency: giving shareholders the information developing strategy and presenting it to the Board: they need to judge whether the executive and for the implementation of the strategy as agreed management and the Board are doing a good by the Board.
job on their behalf: Non-executive Directors Effective decision-making, risk management Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of and control: experience to the Company and Nigel Northridge, David Hamill, Robert MacLeod and Russell King are A proper balance between Executive and considered by the Board to be independent as defined Non-executive Directors: in the Code.
Andrew Salvesen, who retired from the Board on 29 April 2009, had served as a Director of Keeping the interests of the owners of the business the Company for more than nine years and therefore aligned with, and at the front of the mind of, the was not considered to be independent by the Board people charged with managing the business: and for the purposes of the Code.
The ability of the Company to hear the voice of Nigel Northridge is the Senior Independent Director people other than shareholders who are touched and is available to meet Shareholders if they have by it.
Principally these are regulatory and standards concerns which contact through the normal channels bodies, employees, customers, suppliers and the of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director communities in which we operate has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
being mindful of the need to keep the amount of money and time spent on activities other than those The Code states that at least half of the Board, excluding involving making money for our shareholders to an the Chairman, should be independent Non-executive appropriate level.
However, the Directors believe that, beyond a certain size, Boards risk becoming ineffective at control Putting governance into practice and decision-making: they certainly become more We support the Combined Code on Corporate expensive as they grow larger.
Ideally, in our view, the Governance published by the Financial Reporting Aggreko Board works most effectively, and represents Council in June 2008 the Code.
We consider that best value for shareholders, with no more than ten the Group complies and has complied throughout people sitting round the table.
the year ended 31 December 2009 with all of the provisions of the Code with the exception of the Applying the no more than ten round the table rule Code provision that at least half of the Board, leaves nine places for Executive and Non-executive excluding the Chairman, should be independent Directors.
Operationally, Aggreko is organised into Non-executive Directors: the reasons for this are three regions, and the choice in terms of the number of explained in detail in the paragraph below entitled Executive Directors sitting on the Board is two, or five.
A copy of the Code is publicly available at www.
50 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report The Board has concluded that the ability to hold to The attendance of Directors at meetings during 2009 account the line managers who run the business on is set out in the table below: RemunNomia daily basis, to get their input into decision-making, Board Audit eration nation and to get the additional Board-level visibility which Notes meetings Committee Committee Committee comes from having these executives as part of the Number of meetings Board adds real value, and is the appropriate choice.
in 2009 6 3 5 2 We have therefore decided not to comply with the W F Caplan 6 Code in this respect only, having four Non-executive A G Cockburn 6 Directors, rather than the five we would need to be D C M Hamill 6 3 5 2 in line with the Code.
R King 5 3 4 2 R J MacLeod 6 3 5 2 N H Northridge 5 2 4 2 Board Committees K Pandya 6 The Board has standing Audit, Nomination and P G Rogerson 6 2 Remuneration Committees, the memberships, roles A C Salvesen 1 2 2 1 1 and activities of which are detailed in separate reports: F A B Shepherd 1 2 2 Audit Committee on pages 57 and 58, Remuneration R C Soames 6 2 Committee on pages 60 to 71 and Nomination G P Walker 6 Committee on page 59.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board Note 1: Resigned on 29 April 2009 maximum possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
and the minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present, and The Terms of Reference of the standing Committees at least once a year the Senior Non-executive Director of the Board are available on our website at chairs a meeting of the Non-executive Directors www.
Board meetings Induction, development and support The Board generally meets at least six times a year.
All new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored At each meeting, the Board receives certain regular induction on joining the Board, including meetings reports, for example covering current trading, treasury, with senior management and advisers and visits to and environment, health and safety.
At particular the Groups operational locations.
The Board calendar points in the year, the Board reviews budgets, capital is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a expenditure, risks and financial statements.
The Board wide range of topics throughout the year and are has regular updates on strategy and also reviews other given the opportunity to visit sites and discuss aspects topics, such as technical or legal developments, of the business with employees.
We recognise that our acquisition opportunities, and the competitive Directors have a diverse range of experience, and so environment, as appropriate.
Most Board meetings we encourage them to attend external seminars and will have a detailed presentation by a Regional briefings that will assist them individually.
Director on the performance of their region.
The Board also receives reports on how other people Directors have access to independent professional feel about us: they get copies of investor and analyst advice at the Companys expense where they judge feedback, customer satisfaction metrics, and the results this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities of employee surveys.
as Directors and all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, The Board generally meets in central London or at who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Group head office in Glasgow, but at least one Board procedures are complied with.
meeting each year is held at one of the Groups other locations, which gives the Directors the opportunity Election of Directors to review the operations and meet local management.
Any Director appointed by the Board is subject to During 2009, for example, the Board met at our election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after Benelux hub at Moerdijk in the Netherlands and at his appointment.
Each Director must retire from office the UKs South-eastern hub at Sutton, South London.
at the third Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected.
Rupert Soames and George Walker were last re-elected in 2007, and so will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Non-executive Directors who have served longer than nine years e. g. three three-year terms are subject to annual re-election.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 Corporate Governance continued All of the Directors have service agreements or letters Internal control of appointment and the details of their terms are set The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code out in the Remuneration Report on page 71.
No by establishing a continuous process for identifying, other contract with the Company or any subsidiary evaluating and managing the risks that are considered undertaking of the Company in which any Director significant by the Group in accordance with the revised was materially interested subsisted during or at the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by end of the financial year.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date Board performance evaluation of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The This year, as in previous years, the Board conducted process is designed to manage rather than eliminate an evaluation of its own performance through an risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assessment questionnaire completed by all Directors.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The The questionnaire asked Directors to grade areas such Boards monitoring framework covers a wide range as the performance of the Board and its Committees, of controls, including financial, operational and the effectiveness of the Chairman, Executive and compliance controls together with risk management.
Non-executive Directors, the monitoring of operational It is based principally on reviewing reports from performance, and corporate governance, as well as management and considering whether significant risks leadership and culture.
In this way we can compare are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and results with previous years.
A summary of conclusions ensuring that any significant weakness thus identified was then presented to the Board.
The results showed is promptly remedied.
The Board continues to enhance a high level of satisfaction amongst the Directors as and strengthen the procedures for identifying and to the effectiveness of the Board broadly in line with monitoring key areas of risk.
2008, but identified some issues on which we agreed the Board should concentrate for the coming year.
The Board also considers financing and investment These included our people development programme, decisions concerning the Group and monitors the the economic assumptions underlying our strategy policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury and business model as set out on pages 18 to 24, risk.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by and the competitive and investment challenges the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
During each financial year the Audit Committee We have reviewed the interests declared by Directors reviews the external and internal audit work which could conict with those of the Company, and programmes and considers reports from internal and we are satisfied that the Boards powers to authorise external auditors on the system of internal control potential conicts is operating effectively.
and any material control weaknesses.
It also receives responses from management regarding the actions The Independent Non-executive Directors also taken on issues identified in audit reports.
discussed Philip Rogersons recent appointment as chairman of Bunzl plc and were satisfied that it should Performance reporting and information not impact on his role as Aggrekos Chairman.
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes a detailed annual Shareholders budgeting process where business units prepare budgets A summary of the items to be covered at this years for approval by the Board.
The Group uses a large Annual General Meeting is set out on page 56.
The number of performance indicators to measure both Board supports the use of this meeting as a means of operational and financial activity in the business.
communicating with private investors and encourages Depending on the measure these are reported and their participation.
The Company is ready, where reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In practicable, to enter into a dialogue with Shareholders, addition management in the business receive a weekly through analyst briefings and investor presentations.
and monthly pack of indicators which are the basis of Senior executives seek to meet regularly with regular operational meetings, where corrective action institutional and major Shareholders to improve their is taken where necessary.
At a group level a wellunderstanding of the Company and its objectives.
developed management accounts pack including The Senior Independent Director is available to meet income statements, balance sheets and a cash ow Shareholders if they have concerns.
In addition to statement as well as key ratios related to capital attending meetings with Shareholders, the Board has productivity and customer satisfaction scores, are sought to understand the views of investors better prepared and reviewed monthly by management.
by commissioning regular feedback reports from the As part of the monthly reporting process a reforecast Companys stockbrokers and other advisers.
of the current year numbers is carried out.
To ensure consistency of reporting the Group has a global ERP system and a global consolidation system as well as a 52 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report common accounting policies and procedures manual.
Share capital Management monitor the publication of new reporting On 31 December 2009 the Company had in issue standards and work closely with their external auditors 273,473,338 ordinary shares of 20p each.
Details of in evaluating the impact of these standards.
the changes in issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 21 to the accounts.
Review of effectiveness of internal control In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Rights and obligations attached to shares Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred of internal control.
to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred on the holders of any other shares, any share may be On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a issued with or have attached to it such rights and formal review that is designed to assess the application restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution of the principal financial and operational controls decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so operated by the Group.
The review, which is based on far as the resolution does not make specific provision, self-assessment by senior operational management, is as the Board may decide.
carried out using a risk review and control questionnaire and is intended to complement the internal and Voting external audit procedures.
There is also a comprehensive Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which procedure for monitoring all significant risks and key any shares may be issued or may for the time being risks have been identified on a risk register.
The Board be held and to any other provisions of the Companys has considered the probability of those risks occurring articles, on a show of hands every member who is and their impact, as well as the actions that would be present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of taken in response to them if they did occur.
the Company has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by The Board has undertaken a specific assessment of the proxy.
On a poll every member who is present internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
in person or by proxy has one vote for every share This assessment considered all significant aspects of of which he is the holder.
In the case of joint holders internal control during the year ended 31 December of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, 2009.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group whether in person or by proxy, is accepted to the continues to have an effective system of internal control.
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is determined by the order Corporate Social Responsibility in which the names stand in the register in respect The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure of the joint holding.
that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, which protects the environment Restrictions on voting as well as safeguarding the health and safety of No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, its employees, its customers and the communities entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote in which it operates.
These policies are intended either personally or by proxy at any general meeting to recognise, evaluate and manage responsibly of the Company or at any separate general meeting of environmental, health and safety risks through the holders of any class of shares in the Company if any implementation of a comprehensive Global calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect Environmental, Health and Safety Management of that share remain unpaid or if he is a person with System that standardises best operating practices, a 0.25 percent interest as defined in the Companys objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, articles and he has been served with a restriction performance indicators and goals.
These policies notice as defined in the articles after failure to are set out in more detail on pages 42 to 47. provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under Pensions the Companies Acts.
The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension The Company is not aware of any agreement between Scheme Trustee Limited: they are held separately from holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the assets of the Company and invested by independent voting rights.
These segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member-nominated trustees have been appointed.
This fund was closed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 Corporate Governance continued Dividends and other distributions Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time in the Company, except that: declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend can exceed the certain restrictions may from time to time be amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the imposed by laws and regulations for example, provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may pay insider trading laws : and such interim dividends as appear to the Board to be justified by the financial position of the Company and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial may also pay any dividend payable at a fixed rate at Services Authority certain employees of the intervals settled by the Board whenever the financial Company require the approval of the Company position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to the holders of any shares for any loss they The Company is not aware of any agreements may suffer in consequence of the payment of an interim between holders of securities that may result in or fixed dividend on any other class of shares ranking restrictions on the transfer of securities.
pari passu with or after those shares.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Board may deduct from any dividend or other Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the moneys payable to a member by the Company on articles of association of the Company, the Companys or in respect of any shares all sums of money if any articles of association may be amended by a special presently payable by him to the Company on account resolution of the Companys shareholders.
of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the Company.
The Board may also withhold payment Appointment and replacement of Directors of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of payable in respect of the Companys shares from a the Company, the number of Directors disregarding person with a 0.25 per cent.
interest as defined in the alternate Directors is not less than two nor more than Companys articles if such a person has been served fifteen.
No shareholding qualification for Directors is with a restriction notice as defined in the articles required.
The Company or the Board may appoint any after failure to provide the Company with information person to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed by concerning interests in those shares required to be the Board shall hold office only until the next general provided under the Companies Acts.
meeting and shall then be eligible for election.
The Board or any committee authorised by the Board may Variation of rights appoint one or more Directors to hold employment Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, or executive office with the Company for such period rights attached to any class of shares may be varied subject to the Companies Acts and on such other either with the consent in writing of the holders of terms as the Board or committee may in its discretion not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the decide and may revoke or terminate any appointment issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that so made.
class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting Each Director must retire from office at the third of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum Annual General Meeting after the Annual General applying to any such separate general meeting is two Meeting at which he was last elected.
Non-executive persons holding or representing by proxy not less Directors who have served longer than nine years than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares e. g. three three-year terms are subject to annual of the class excluding any shares of that class held re-election.
In addition to any power of removal as treasury shares, but at any adjourned meeting conferred by the Companies Acts, the Company one holder present in person or by proxy whatever may by special resolution remove any Director before the number of shares held by him will constitute a the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a quorum : every holder of shares of the class present in Director must be vacated if: i he resigns his office person or by proxy excluding any shares of that class by notice in writing delivered to the office or tendered held as treasury shares is entitled on a poll to one at a meeting of the Board: or ii his resignation is vote for every share of the class held by him subject requested by all of the other Directors and all of the to any rights or restrictions attached to any class of other Directors are not less than three in number: or shares and any holder of shares of the class present iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
or becomes a patient for any purpose of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: or iv he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board 54 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report whether or not an alternate Director appointed shares in the market.
The authority will be limited by him attends for six consecutive months and the to a maximum of 27,381,683 ordinary shares and sets Board resolves that his office is vacated: or v he the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: or vi he is prohibited by law from being a Securities carrying special rights Director: or vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue No person holds securities in the Company carrying of the Companies Acts or is removed from office special rights with regard to control of the Company.
pursuant to the Companys articles.
Rights under the employee share scheme Powers of the Directors Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Aggreko Employees Benefit Trust, holds 1.61% of the the Companys memorandum of association and its issued share capital of the Company as at 4 March articles and to any directions given by the Company 2010 on trust for the benefit of the employees and in general meeting by special resolution, the business former employees of the Group and their dependents.
of the Company is managed by the Board, which The voting rights in relation to these shares are may exercise all the powers of the Company whether exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions relating to the management of the business of the on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise any offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to to waive all dividends on the shares unless requested mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, to do otherwise by the Company in writing.
property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the Company and to issue debentures and Going concern other securities, whether outright or as collateral The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, security for any debt, liability or obligation of the consider that the Group and the Company have Company or any third party.
adequate resources at their disposal to continue their operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is Powers in relation to the Company therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a issuing or buying back its own shares going concern basis.
The Directors were granted authority at the last Annual General Meeting held in 2009 to allot relevant Change of control The Company has in place a number of agreements securities up to a nominal amount of 17,985,000.
That with advisers, financial institutions and customers authority will apply until the earlier of 30 June 2010 which contain certain termination rights which would and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting have effect on a change of control.
At this years Annual General Meeting believe these agreements to be commercially sensitive shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to and that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount to the Company: accordingly they do not intend of 18,254,455, and ii comprising equity securities up disclosing specific details of these.
In addition, all of to a nominal amount of 18,254,455 after deducting the Companys share schemes contain provisions which from such limit any relevant securities allotted under in the event of a change of control, would result in i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights outstanding options and awards becoming exercisable, issue, such authority to apply until the end of next subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
years Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, until 30 June 2011.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the for loss of office or employment that occurs because Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for of a takeover bid.
cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 2,738,168.
Disclosure of information to the Companys Auditor In accordance with section 418 of the Companies The Company was also authorised at the Annual Act 2006 the Directors who held office at the date General Meeting held in 2009 to make market of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so purchases of up to 27,250,000 ordinary shares.
This far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit authorisation will expire on the earlier of the conclusion information as defined by section 418 3 of the of the Annual General Meeting of the Company for Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys Auditor 2010 and 29 October 2010. is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself A special resolution will also be proposed at this years aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Annual General Meeting to renew the Directors that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55 Corporate Governance continued Indemnity of officers Annual General Meeting Special Business Under Article 145 of the Companys articles of Special Business comprises resolutions: to authorise association, the Company may indemnify any Director the Directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate or other officer against any liability, subject to the amount representing approximately one third of the provisions of the Companies Acts, and the articles issued ordinary share capital of the Company, in line grant an indemnity to the Directors against any with guidance issued by the Association of the British liability for the costs of legal proceedings where Insurers: to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights judgement is given in their favour.
of shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal Under the authority conferred by Article 145, the value of approximately 5% of the current issued share Company has granted indemnities to Directors and capital: to renew the authority of the Company to officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted under indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises Article 7 of articles of association: to approve the calling out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of fiduciary of meetings other than Annual General Meetings on duty or trust by the indemnified person.
14 days notice: and to amend the articles of association of the Company.
In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain for any Director or other officer, insurance against Auditors any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate A resolution re-appointing  insurance cover against legal action brought against LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the its Directors and officers and the Directors and officers Annual General Meeting.
Material share interests Supplier payment policy As at 4 March 2010 the Company had received It is the Groups policy to settle the terms and notifications of the following share holdings conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: aware of these terms and, in practice, provided the % of total supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by Name of Shareholder Number of Shares voting rights them.
In overall terms, the Group had approximately Prudential plc 22,214,129 8.12 63 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
Black Rock 16,166,777 5.91 Mr A E H Salvesen 13,606,921 4.98 Essential contractual arrangements Baillie Gifford & Co 11,804,464 4.31 The Company buys the majority of its generator Legal & General Group Plc 10,797,375 3.96 engines from Cummins Limited, a subsidiary of Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
Cummins Inc based in Columbus, Indiana, USA.
Including immediate family and trustee interests.
The Company also relies upon their global service and support network for the supply of spare parts.
The The Directors are not aware of any other material Companys relationship with Cummins is governed interests amounting to 3% or more in the share by a supply agreement which is regularly reviewed.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Peter Kennerley 11.00am on Wednesday 28 April 2010 at the Radisson Director of Legal Affairs and Company Secretary SAS Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow G2 8DL.
4 March 2010 56 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
