Directors Report Audit Committee Report Responsibilities and role of the Audit Committee The Committees main responsibilities are to oversee and monitor: the external audit process, including the appointment of the external auditor, their fees and independence: the nature and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness: the effectiveness of internal audit: the Companys procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management: the integrity of the Companys financial reports, including reviewing the findings of the external audit: and making appropriate recommendations to the Board.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
Membership of the Committee The members of the Committee during the year were as follows: Robert MacLeod Chairman Russell King appointed 2nd February 2009 Nigel Northridge David Hamill All members of the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
Robert MacLeod, a chartered accountant and Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc brings a high level of recent relevant financial experience in his capacity as Chairman of the Committee.
Peter Kennerley is Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Chairman, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit attend meetings by invitation when appropriate.
The main audit partner from our external auditor also generally attends the Committee.
At each meeting we hold a separate session with the external auditor without members of management and we also hold a separate private session with the Head of Internal Audit at least once a year.
Main activities of the Committee during the year The Committee met three times during the year.
Review of terms of reference and policies In addition to our regular tasks linked to the annual reporting cycle, we reviewed our terms of reference and policies concerning the external auditor.
We recommended that the Board should amend our terms of reference, principally to provide a better description of the way we review financial statements, discuss audit issues with the external auditor and report to the Board.
We reconfirmed our policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditor: individual fees in excess of 50% of the annual audit fee and any excess of the aggregate fees above 100% of the audit fee require the Committees specific approval.
We also considered the actual level and nature of non-audit work and were satisfied that they were in line with policy and did not detract from the objectives and independence of the external auditor.
Finally we agreed that whilst we would not generally employ a former member of the external audit team, we would consider individual cases as appropriate, if approved by the Board as a whole in the case of an audit partner or otherwise by the Finance Director and Chairman of the Committee.
Reappointment of external auditors The Committee last supervised a competitive tender for the external audit in 2006, following which  LLP were reappointed external auditor.
The Committee is again recommending to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of .
There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external auditor, and in making our recommendation we took into account, amongst other matters, the objectivity and independence of , as noted above, their continuing effectiveness and cost.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit function An important element of our role is to review the annual progress of the internal audit plan against the agreed plan for the year.
The internal audit team currently consists of four members of staff in addition to the Head of Internal Audit, and the team undertake financial, operational and strategic audits across the Aggreko group using a risk based methodology.
Group Internal Audit is also responsible for IT related audits, and these services are provided by an outsourced provider.
We agreed the scope of work and coverage levels as part of the annual internal audit plan and the team work under the direction of the Head of Internal Audit to deliver the plan throughout the year.
We also considered all internal control issues raised in the internal audit reports and the adequacy of internal audit resources.
Whistleblowing The Committee reviewed the Companys arrangements for reporting potential improprieties in financial reporting or other matters, independent investigation and follow-up and we can confirm that they remained adequate for addressing the Companys obligations under the Code.
Robert MacLeod Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 March 2010 58 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
