40 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board meets regularly, with 12 meetings having been held during the Principles statement year ended 30 September 2009.
All members of the Board are supplied in easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of corporate advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be governance.
It is standard practice for the Non Executive Directors to meet without any Executive Directors present on a regular basis during the year, Statement of compliance usually prior to or immediately after each Board meeting.
During the year the Board considers that it and the Company have complied The appointments of Keith Hamill and Sir Michael Rake during the year as with the best practice provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Non Executive Directors were the result of a search process carried out Corporate Governance of June 2008 without exception.
The Combined using external recruitment consultants in accordance with longstanding Board Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and available on the practice.
Financial Reporting Councils website, http: www.
Meetings attended Board of Directors Audit Remuneration Nominations As at 30 September 2009, the Board comprised nine Non Executive Director Board Committee Committee Committee Directors including the Interim Chairman and one Executive Director.
Sir Colin Chandler The roles of Chairman as fulfilled by Sir Colin Chandler and subsequently Sir resigned 1 July 2009 9 n a 2 3 David Michels as Interim Chairman and Chief Executive Andrew Harrison Andrew Harrison 12 3 2 n a are separated, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
Sir Michael Rake is the Senior Independent Non Executive Director and holds the post of Jeff Carr resigned 1 Deputy Chairman.
25 September 2009 12 4 1 n a Professor Rigas Doganis 10 n a 4 3 The Company regards David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, John Browett, Sven Boinet and Keith Hamill as Independent Non Executive Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 12 n a n a n a Directors.
Dawn Airey, who served for part of the year as Non Executive John Browett 10 4 1 n a Director, was also regarded as independent.
Sir David Michels was also Sir David Michels 11 2 4 n a regarded as independent until his appointment as Interim Chairman and Sir Michael Rake is regarded as independent.
David Bennett 11 4 4 3 Sven Boinet 9 n a 3 n a Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou is not regarded as independent due to his significant beneficial shareholding in the Company and his prior involvement in an Dawn Airey resigned executive management capacity.
Bob Rothenberg is not considered to be 31 December 2008 1 n a n a n a independent due to his appointment by Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou pursuant to Keith Hamill appointed Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association, as set out below: 1 March 2009 8 2 1 n a 87.1 For so long as the Controlling Shareholders directly or indirectly hold Sir Michael Rake appointed in aggregate at least 25 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the 1 June 2009 3 1 n a n a Company and the Company is entitled to continue to use the easyJet Bob Rothenberg appointed brand under the terms of the easyJet Brand Licence, the Controlling 1 August 2009 2 1 n a n a Shareholders or either of them shall be entitled to appoint any two persons to be Non Executive Directors and in addition Sir Stelios HajiBy invitation.
Appointed Chairman of the Nominations Committee on 1 July 2009.
Ioannou shall be entitled to be the Chairman of the Board and of the Appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2009.
Sir Colin Chandler resigned during the year with effect from 1 July 2009 and, 87.2 For so long as the Controlling Shareholders directly or indirectly hold after consideration by the Nominations Committee and the Board, Sir David in aggregate at least 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Michels was appointed Interim Chairman with Sir Michael Rake as Deputy Company and the Company is entitled to continue to use the easyJet Chairman.
brand under the terms of the easyJet Brand Licence, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Bob Rothenberg was appointed by easyGroup Holdings Limited and Sir shall be entitled to be the Chairman of the Board and of the Company.
Stelios Haji-Ioannou pursuant to the rights granted to them under Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The members of the Nomination Board engagement with investors Committee also considered and approved his appointment.
Separately, the The Board continues to consider that it is appropriate for the Chairman to Board has taken advice during the year from expert management search and be the primary conduit with investors given his experience in liaising with development consultants with a view to both enhancing its development of shareholders and relative longevity on the Board following his predecessors key managers and reviewing its succession planning for the top executive departure.
Each Chairman of the Board has made himself available for investor meetings and questions, in person, during the year and has updated the whole Board on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
Each Senior Independent Non Executive Director has also acted as an alternative point of contact and attended meetings in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board on the opinions of shareholders and an investor perception audit is carried out by an independent third party on annual basis.
41 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of easyJet.
During fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial reports the year, the Interim Chairman undertook a performance review of the and other financial information in advance of publication, reviewing Board using an external evaluation tool provided by a corporate advisory on a continuing basis the systems of internal controls regarding finance company.
The process involved a detailed questionnaire completed by each and accounting that management and the Board have established and of the Directors, one on one discussions with individual Directors and a reviewing generally the auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
separate review of the outcome by the full Board in a plenary session.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other The performance of the Board including the Interim Chairman, the Boards accounts remains with the Board.
The Audit Committee has met four times Committees and also that of the individual Board Directors was reviewed during the course of the year, including an additional meeting in September as part of the same process.
The Board considered that given the short 2009 to review the accounting policy issues raised in the statement of period of time for which Sir David Michels had held the position of Interim Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou appended to the end of the preliminary results Chairman it would not be appropriate to have his performance reviewed announcement of 18 November 2008. as Chairman by the Senior Independent Non Executive Director prior to The Audit Committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of internal 30 September 2009. control, approving and monitoring the internal audit work plan, considering The Board regularly receives updates, via the Company Secretary, on issues arising from internal audits work, reviewing managements response relevant legislation, regulation and governance best practice.
to internal control issues, approving the external audit fee, considering the external audit strategy and plans, reviewing the external auditors reports and reviewing and approving the annual accounts.
Both internal and external Board Committees auditors are given the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Remuneration Committee Committee without any member of management present.
It is standard At 30 September 2009, the Remuneration Committee comprised four practice for the external auditors to meet with the Audit Committee Independent Non Executive Directors, namely Keith Hamill Committee without the executive being present at each Audit Committee meeting.
Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, and Sven Boinet.
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented and for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation of senior agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and the http: corporate.
The key terms set out that the Audit Chairman.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Companys Committee will: share option schemes, the Remuneration Committee has met four times Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality and during the year.
timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal The Board has reviewed the composition of the Remuneration Committee financial control system during the year and at the end of June 2009, Sir David Michels stood down Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors as Chairman of the Committee in accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the Combined Code, simultaneously standing down as member.
From 1 July Provide an open avenue of communication among the external auditors, 2009, Keith Hamill was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and to financial and senior management, and the Board act as its Chairman in place of Sir David Michels.
The Board is satisfied that Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the external the Directors who are currently members of this Committee are those who auditors in particular, in the context of the provision of additional are best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
services to the Company Shareholders are generally required to approve all new long term incentive Review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk management processes of plans and significant changes to existing plans.
Further details of these plans the Company can be found in the Report on Directors remuneration and the full text of the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee is available in the Review and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and governance section of easyJets corporate website, managements responsiveness to any findings and recommendations http: corporate.
Assess potential conflicts of interest of Directors on behalf of the Board Audit Committee The Audit Committee recently reviewed its terms of reference in line with The Audit Committee comprises three Non Executive Directors, all of the Financial Reporting Councils 2008 Guidance on Audit Committees and whom are independent.
As at 30 September 2009, the Audit Committee decided that no changes were required.
members were David Bennett Committee Chairman, John Browett and Keith Hamill, who was appointed on 1 March 2009.
On 30 June 2009 Sir David Michels stood down from the Audit Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
This Committee meets at least three times per year.
42 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers the auditors.
 LLP were reappointed auditors of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a Group at the Annual General Meeting, held in February 2009.
In order to suitable balance is maintained.
All job specifications prepared include details preserve auditor objectivity and independence, the Board has decided that of the time commitments expected in the role.
 LLP will not be asked to provide consulting On joining the Board, new Board members receive a full and tailored services unless this is in the best interests of the Company.
Shareholders are offered the chance to meet new Directors.
the Audit Committees terms of reference sets out the formal policy on non-audit work.
The auditors are asked on a regular basis to articulate the Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made available at steps that they have taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
easyJet the Annual General Meeting or on request.
monitors the auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the Litigation Committee exercise of their duties.
This included this year obtaining a report on the As a result of the proceedings brought by easyGroup IP Licensing Limited auditors own quality control procedures and a consideration of their annual a company under the ultimate control of Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou in 2008 audit, quality and transparency report.
In the financial year, easyJet spent in relation to the clarification of the brand licence, the Board continues to 0.1 million with  LLP 2008: 0.9 million in operate a separate Litigation Committee to deal with the proceedings respect of non-audit services.
and all matters related to them.
Neither Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou nor The Board is satisfied that the Directors who are currently members of this Bob Rothenberg as his nominee sit on this Committee which comprises Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committees every other Director of the Board.
It is anticipated that the Committee shall objectives.
David Bennett has served as the Chairman of the Committee continue to exist until the proceedings and any related circumstances giving during the year.
David was until 31 July 2009 an Executive Director of Abbey rise to a conflict of interest between Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannous interests and National plc prior to which he was Chief Executive Officer and Finance those of the Company have been resolved.
In this respect, a date in or Director of Alliance and Leicester plc, experience which the Board considers around June 2010 for a High Court hearing to adjudicate the dispute is to be recent and relevant for the purposes of undertaking the role as expected to be confirmed in due course.
Relations with investors and the Annual General Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises at least three members.
During Meeting AGM the year, the Nominations Committee members were Sir Colin Chandler The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly Chairman until 30 June 2009, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, with the Board.
There is also regular communication with institutional Dawn Airey until 31 December 2008 and Sir David Michels who took investors on key business issues.
easyJet has an investor relations department over as Chairman on 1 July 2009.
Sir Colin Chandler was not considered to which runs an active investor relations programme to facilitate engagement be independent as he was Chairman of the Group before his retirement.
with investors including one on one meetings, visits to easyJets operations However, the Board was satisfied that Sir Colin Chandlers personal integrity and presentations.
The investor relations website was upgraded during the and experience made him a highly effective member of the Board and the year with the aim of improving the information available to shareholders Nominations Committee.
The Board is satisfied on the same grounds with about easyJet.
The website can be accessed at http: corporate.
the appointment of Sir David Michels to the Nominations Committee.
This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board Internal control positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control and balance.
In appointing Non Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Company.
use an external recruitment agency.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are The Nominations Committee has met three times during the year.
The first designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve meeting was to consider and approve the appointment of Keith Hamill.
business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable but The second was to consider a long-term successor to Sir Colin Chandler as not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Chairman of the Company and resulted in the recommendation to the Board of Sir Michael Rake.
The discussions at this meeting pertaining to the The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the appointment of Chairman were chaired by David Bennett, in accordance system of internal control during the year under the auspices of the Audit with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The third was to consider Committee.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the and approve the appointment of Sir David Michels as Interim Chairman course of this review.
and Sir Michael Rake as Deputy Chairman.
The searches for Keith Hamill The internal control regime is enhanced by the operation of a whistleblower and Sir Michael Rake both involved the use of independent recruitment reporting function.
The system is operated by a specialist external third-party consultants.
Sir David Michels was appointed Interim Chairman without the service provider and allows employees to report concerns in confidence on involvement of independent recruitment consultants or open advertising a no-names basis.
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and as his chairmanship is only intended to be short term until a new Chairman reporting structure for the function and receives regular reports on the is formally appointed.
The Committee is utilising independent recruitment operation of the function.
consultants to identify a suitable successor to Jeff Carr as Group Finance Director, and the search process is well advanced.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
43 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Risk management Internal audit A formal bi-annual process is in place to identify, evaluate, manage and Internal audits work is focused primarily on areas of greatest risk to easyJet, report upon significant risks faced by the Company and is operated as determined by managements risk identification and assessment processes by the Company Secretary under the direction of the Risk Committee.
as validated by Executive Directors.
The output from this process is The process involves a rigorous mandatory reporting regime across summarised in an audit plan, which is approved by the Board and Audit middle tier management with reporting of risks subject to review by a Committee, and updated on a rolling quarterly basis.
cross-functional Risk Committee which produces consolidated risk reports The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Group Finance Director and the for the Board.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit was invited An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined to and attended all of the Audit Committee meetings in the year and has by the Directors and has been adopted as follows: reported regularly on internal audit reviews to the Executive Management Team meetings during the course of the year.
A formal audit charter is Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various in place.
monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted The internal audit department reviews the extent to which systems of continuously in weekly meetings.
Operational meetings include the internal control: Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to discuss safety, security and are effective: environmental risks.
The Safety Review Board meets monthly, or more regularly where events require, to review safety performance.
In addition, are adequate to manage easyJets significant risks: and there are regular Commercial, Financial and IT functional meetings: safeguard the Companys assets.
The Executive Management Team meets monthly to consider significant The key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance on current risks.
Individual department and overall business performance is risks and controls to the Board and senior management: and to assist the reviewed.
The reporting of significant risks to Executive Management Board with meeting its corporate governance and regulatory responsibilities.
Team and the Board of the Company has been enhanced by the risk management processes referred to above.
Individual department and The role of internal audit and the scope of its work continue to evolve to overall business performance is reviewed: take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
Written reporting of current significant risks is provided to the Board on a monthly basis.
Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the Board if they arise: Internal audit considers, reviews and tests internal control and business risk matters throughout the Group.
Further details of the internal audit functions operations are set out below: As described above, a bi-annual risk and control identification process, together with annual control effectiveness testing, is conducted.
The key risks are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the desired level are also identified: Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in controls identified.
The Directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the Directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: Reports from management.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate: Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: and Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from internal and external auditors: The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high-level risks, are tested to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this testing are reported to the Board which considers whether these high-level risks are effectively controlled.
