CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In respect of the year ended 31 March 2009, the Company has The Group Executive Committee consists of the Executive been subject to the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Directors and certain senior managers with Operating Company and Governance published in July 2003 and last revised in June 2008 Process responsibilities.
It is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Section 1 of the Combined Code establishes The Committee has met 11 times during the financial year ended 17 main principles and 26 supporting principles of good governance 31 March 2009 and manages the day-to-day activities of the Group.
in four areas: Directors: Accountability and Audit: Relations with The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Group Shareholders: and Remuneration of Directors.
This report explains Executive Committee: the development and recommendation of how these principles were applied in the first three of these areas.
strategic plans for consideration by the Board: the monitoring of A detailed report on Directors Remuneration can be found on the operating and financial results against plans and forecasts: pages 28 to 33. and the development of risk management and control procedures.
The Audit Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors Directors and meets at least three times a year and more frequently if required.
The Board The committee assists the Board in its duties regarding financial As at 31 March 2009 the Board comprised the Chairman, who is statements and regularly reviews the operation of internal financial part-time, two Executive Directors and four independent Non-Executive controls with the internal operational audit team and, where Directors, two of whom, Leslie Atkinson and Tim Barker will retire applicable, external auditors.
It also reviews the scope and results at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Since the year end, it of the audit with the external auditors and the results of the work of has been announced that Adrian Auer will be appointed to the Board the internal operational audit team.
The committee is also responsible as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2009.
The Board for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, is collectively responsible for the performance of the Company.
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on reporting or other matters.
The committee is currently chaired by independence of non-executive directors under the Combined Code.
Since the year end it has been announced that Paul In the opinion of the Board, all the continuing Non-Executive Directors Hollingworth, who has relevant financial and accounting experience, bring independence of judgement and character to the Board and to will take over the chair on Tims retirement on 17 July 2009.
Further the committees on which they sit.
They are sufficiently independent details of the role of the Committee are set out on pages 26 to 27. of management and are free from any business or other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The Treasury Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
Group Treasurer, the Group Controller, the Company Secretary It is responsible for the overall Group strategy and the approval and the Group Tax Manager and sets detailed treasury policy for and review of major investment proposals.
The Board discusses the Group within guidelines established by the Board.
The Committee and agrees strategic plans, reviews forecasts and evaluates Group meets quarterly.
Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board to the Group Executive Committee.
The Remuneration Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Information and agenda items are recommended to the Board by Directors and is chaired by Leslie Atkinson.
Since the year end it the Group Executive Committee and the Company Secretary after has been announced that Rupert Soames will chair the Committee discussion with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The Board after Leslies retirement on 17 July 2009.
The Committee meets normally includes a visit to an operating company as part of its annual as required, at least twice a year and is responsible for all aspects schedule of meetings.
of the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior managers.
Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of each Changes made to the Companys Articles of Association at the Director are set out in the Remuneration Report.
2008 Annual General Meeting, and the subsequent introduction of the relevant legislation, have given the Board the power to authorise The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman and all the situations which might give rise to Directors conflicts of interest.
The Chairman, Helmut Mamsch, chairs Formal conflicts of interest management procedures have therefore the Committee.
The Committee meets as required and recommends been adopted by the Board.
The Board is responsible for considering to the Board candidates for appointment as Executive and whether authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee periodically to new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any assesses what new skills, knowledge and experience are required conflict authorisations it has given and any limitations which have on the Board and if appropriate, recommends a candidate profile been applied.
which is then used to brief recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings are Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are held generally by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive with set out on page 21, together with details of their membership of prospective candidates and a shortlist of individuals is selected to Board Committees.
meet with other Nomination Committee members and the Executive Board Committees Directors.
The Nomination Committee then meets and decides which The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of certain candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
This process Directors and, in the case of the Group Executive Committee and was used for the appointment of Adrian Auer and other recent Treasury Committee, certain senior managers, to which specific appointments of Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has succession responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of plans in place for both the Board and the Group Executive Committee.
These terms of reference are available for inspection on the Companys website.
Board members receive minutes of meetings of all the Boards committees and can request presentations or reports on areas of concern.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 24 Board Attendance Professional Development The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during familiarity with the Group by attending external seminars and the year and individual attendance by the relevant members briefings, through participation at meetings and through visits to at these meetings: operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by receiving presentations from senior management.
The Directors are regularly Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination updated on new legislation, including training during the year on Board Committee Committee Committee the new provisions regarding directors interests introduced by the Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Companies Act 2006.
Directors are given access to independent Number of professional advice at the Groups expense, if they deem it necessary meetings held in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
This is in addition during the year 9 4 4 4 to the access that every Director has to the Company Secretary.
Chairman The Company has continued to secure appropriate insurance cover for its Directors and its officers.
H Mamsch 9 4 Executive Directors Performance Evaluation I Mason 9 During the year the Chairman has held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
S Boddie 9 In addition, the Board has carried out a formal evaluation of its own Non-Executive performance.
The process comprised the Company Secretary issuing Directors a detailed questionnaire covering the Board and its Committees L Atkinson 9 4 4 4 to Board members.
The questionnaire covered issues such as T G Barker 9 4 4 4 effectiveness of meetings, how well strategy is tested and developed, a Board composition and succession planning and risk management K Hamill 4 2 1 controls.
The responses to the questionnaire were collated b P Hollingworth 8 4 2 4 independently by the Company Secretary, who then prepared reports R C Soames 9 4 4 4 for each of the chairmen of the Board and relevant Committees.
a Keith Hamill ceased to be a Director on 18 July 2008.
The reports were discussed at the Board and the relevant b Paul Hollingworth was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2008. committees and necessary follow-up actions agreed.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by Tim Barker Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior in his capacity as the Senior Independent Director, met to review Independent Director the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by of the Executive Directors.
Following the review, Tim Barker met different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the with the Chairman to discuss his performance.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established: their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed Appointments, Retirements and Re-elections by the Board.
Leslie Atkinson and Tim Barker have notified the Board that they will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, having each The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for served nine years on the Board, and will not be seeking re-election.
organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day-toSimon Boddie will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting day business of the Company.
The Chairman facilitates the effective in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, being contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, and ensures Directors eligible, is offering himself for re-election.
Simon Boddie has a one receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He is also responsible year rolling contract.
for effective communication between the Board and shareholders.
Since the year end, it has been announced that Adrian Auer will The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on be appointed as Non-Executive Director from 1 July 2009 and is a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial therefore standing for formal election at the forthcoming Annual and operational performance of the Group, and the determination General Meeting.
Adrian is participating in a company induction of the strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
which includes time with the Group Executive Committee members, visiting an operating company and a day out with the sales team.
Tim Barker as the Senior Independent Director is responsible for chairing the meeting of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans performance and to provide an alternative communication channel for shareholders if required.
Since the year end, it has been announced that Rupert Soames will replace Tim Barker as the Senior Independent Director with effect from Tims retirement from the Board on 17 July 2009.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Directors Interests in Shares misstatement or loss.
Further information regarding risks to The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the the business is given on pages 17 to 18 of the Business Review.
Company are set out in the table below.
The Directors have Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the no non-beneficial interests: Directors to enable them to discharge their responsibilities for financial matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 34.
31 March 2009 31 March 2008 or date or date The main financial control elements are described below.
ceased to be a appointed as a Director Director Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and the L Atkinson 2,260 2,260 Board Committees, with delegation of operating responsibility through the Board Committees to management in all locations.
Operating T G Barker 15,000 15,000 company controls are detailed in Group Finance and Group Treasury S Boddie 100,000 75,000 manuals that specify the controls necessary in identified areas of a K Hamill 5,183 5,183 financial risk.
Smaller Group operating companies are supported b P Hollingworth 10,000 by Group, regional and Process specialists in key areas.
H Mamsch 10,000 10,000 Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, I Mason 137,349 112,349 monthly and annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management accounts are prepared by all operating companies and Group-wide Processes.
R C Soames 5,866 5,866 These contain forecasts of the current financial year which are a Keith Hamill ceased to be a Director on 18 July 2008. b updated four times per year and are compared against the previous Paul Hollingworth was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2008. forecast, the budget and prior year actuals.
Variances are reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and by the Board.
Specific reporting Directors interests in Incentive Plans and Share Options are systems cover treasury operations, major investment projects and disclosed on pages 32 and 33. legal and insurance activities, which are reviewed by the Board Up to 29 April 2009 there have been no changes in the Directors and its Committees on a regular basis.
interests or rights to subscribe for shares.
The Group has a team of internal operational auditors which has an annually agreed audit programme approved by the Audit Committee.
Accountability and Audit The team reports regularly to the Audit Committee on the results In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested parties, of audits performed and reviews self-certification internal control by means of Annual and Half-Yearly Financial Reports, Interim questionnaires completed by operating management.
Management Statements and other periodic statements, the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness Groups position and prospects.
of the Groups system of internal control and internal financial control during the period covered by this report.
Internal Control The Group has an established and on-going process of risk Audit Committee and Auditors management and internal control which has continued throughout The Audit Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual of the Companys auditors KPMG Audit Plc KPMG in their report and accounts.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness reporting to shareholders.
The Audit Committee met four times during of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed the year ended 31 March 2009 and the Group Audit Engagement and implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group Director from KPMG was present at all of these meetings to ensure and the risks to which it is exposed.
In addition to the members of the Audit Committee, it was normal for the following people to receive the In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and Audit Committee papers and attend meetings: the recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal control, the Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system 1. the Chairman of the Company of internal control.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports 2. the Group Chief Executive on the performance of the system of internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing material risks and in identifying control 3. the Group Finance Director and Group Controller failings or weaknesses.
Board members then receive the minutes of each Audit Committee meeting.
4. the Head of Internal Audit The Audit Committee dedicates one meeting a year to the review 5. the Company Secretary of the Groups risk management process with the minutes of the Their attendance was at the invitation of the Audit Committee review being reported to the Board.
Together with the provision Chairman only and does not restrict the Committees independent of regular updates to the Board on material risk issues, these allow decision making.
the Board to make the assessment on the systems of internal control for the purposes of making its public statement.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, and also covers re-appointment as well as During the period under review, the underlying business environment reassurance that there are no issues which could adversely affect introduced additional challenges to the business.
The principal risks the auditors independence and objectivity.
and uncertainties to which the business is exposed remain consistent however, and there were no control failings or weaknesses that Views of management are also taken in account and this is reported resulted in unforeseen material losses.
The internal control system to senior members of KPMG.
This forms part of KPMGs own system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material of quality control.
The Audit Committee also has discussions with Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 26 KPMG, without management being present, on the adequacy of Relations with Shareholders controls and on any significant area where management judgement Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional has been applied.
shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcements of the annual The scope of the years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit and interim results, the results of which are communicated to, and Committee.
Following discussions between the Operating Companies discussed by, the Board.
At these meetings the Executive Directors and the local KPMG offices and a review by Group management, and the Chairman meet with major shareholders to discuss audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee and are then performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-Executive recommended to the Board for approval.
Professional rules require Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
rotation of the Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG.
This The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Board will take place in July 2009 when a new Director will be appointed, on meetings with shareholders, ensuring that the views of the replacing the current Director who has held the post for five years.
shareholders are communicated to the Board through these reports.
The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders at the The Senior Independent Director attended meetings with major Annual General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, but beyond shareholders during the financial year ended 31 March 2009. this, controls have been in place for some years to ensure that Shareholders are also given the opportunity to meet with and put additional work performed by the auditors is appropriate and questions to the Chairman and other Board Directors at each years subject to proper review.
With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG the Company has developed a policy to ensure that the provision of Compliance with the Combined Code such services does not impair KPMGs independence or objectivity.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Directors consider that the Company complied with the provisions set out in Section The policy is as follows: 1 of the Combined Code.
When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake By order of the Board non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times give consideration to the provisions of the Smith Report with regard to the preservation of independence: Ian Haslegrave The external auditors must certify to the Company that they General Counsel & Company Secretary are acting independently: 29 May 2009 In providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not: audit their own work: make management decisions for the Company: create a mutuality of interest: or find themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
Before commissioning non-audit services, the Audit Committee or the Group Finance Director as appropriate must ensure that the external auditors are satisfied that there is no issue as regards independence.
The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the external auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is a specific project with a cost that is not expected to exceed 50,000.
This work has to be reported to the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
If the cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement of the Audit Committee is required before the work is commissioned.
In either case, other potential providers must be adequately considered.
The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the external auditors or other providers of accountancy services anywhere in the Group in excess of 10,000.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27
