Corporate Governance Introduction The Board recognises that good governance helps the business deliver its strategy, generate long-term shareholder value and minimise risk.
For the year under review the appropriate governance provisions are as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code provisions, the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control and appropriate best practice guidance issued by investor bodies.
Our corporate governance framework is directed in a manner which is responsible and in accordance with high standards of honesty, transparency and accountability.
The Board considers that this statement on governance provides the information to enable shareholders to evaluate how the provisions and principles of the Combined Code have been applied.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code The Board is responsible for the policies and controls put in place to discharge the Companys responsibilities under the Combined Code.
These include, for example, a sound system of internal controls and risk management procedures designed to ensure the Companys policies achieve compliance.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2009 the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and the principles of good governance.
The Company has also complied with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Board Role The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Group and for its overall strategic direction, its values and its governance.
It provides the leadership necessary to enable the business objectives to be met whilst ensuring that obligations to its shareholders are safeguarded.
Composition As at 30 September 2009 the Board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The role of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate and clear divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and operate effectively.
During the year the Board has again reviewed its composition and has concluded that its composition fully satisfies the requirements of the business and ensures proper governance of the Group.
There were no changes to the membership of the Board during the year.
The Chairman, Mr H V Reid, has primary responsibility for leadership of the Board, sets its agenda and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties.
He facilitates the effective engagement of the non-executive directors.
He is responsible, jointly with the Chief Executive, for the effective communication with the Companys shareholders and representation of the Group externally.
The Chief Executive, Mr G E Tuppen, has executive responsibility for executing the Groups strategy and development.
He leads the management of the Company in order to optimise long-term shareholder value by meeting key strategic and financial objectives.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are free from any relationship with the executive management that could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgement.
The Board recognises that length of service can impact on the independence of a non-executive director and, having considered this, is satisfied that all nonexecutives remain independent in character and judgement for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Board membership and that of its Committees is designed to ensure that no one individual or group dominates proceedings and that their wide variety of skills allows effective leadership across the Companys business activities.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 21 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 21 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Governance Mr D A Harding and Mr W S Townsend are seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 21 January 2010.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Harding and Mr Townsend continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment and time to their role and duties and have a range of skills and experience relevant to their continued appointment.
In addition Mr Harding considers he has sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs notwithstanding his other business commitments and has no conflicting interests.
Newly appointed directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment to the Board.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 January 2010 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on pages 124 to 128.
Biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 7 and 8.
Operation of the Board The Company has an effective Board which leads and controls the Company and is responsible to the shareholders for its proper management and its success.
The Board therefore provides entrepreneurial leadership, sets and monitors the Companys strategic aims, reviews management performance and examines major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
The Board has established guidelines requiring that specific matters are reserved for a decision by the full Board.
This ensures that the Board maintains control over strategic, major financial and key operational issues.
Such matters include, for example, the approval of financial statements, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, risk management and governance policies.
All meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion by all directors and ensure full participation in the decision-making process.
Meetings and Attendance The Board held six scheduled meetings in the past year and is expected to hold a similar number of such meetings over its next financial year.
The Board can convene additional meetings as necessary to consider matters that are time critical.
In addition, two separate Strategic Business Reviews are held off site annually at which high level strategic issues, such as future business direction and its financial and operational implications are reviewed and debated.
These Strategic Business Reviews have a strong operational focus and also give the Board the opportunity to hear contributions from the senior management team.
Members attendance during the year Board Nominations Remuneration Audit ended 30 September 2009 meetings committee committee committee Number of meetings held 6 1 6 3 Non-Executive Directors H V Reid 6 1 A J Stewart 6 1 6 3 D A Harding 6 1 6 3 S E Murray 6 1 6 3 D O Maloney 6 1 6 3 Executive Directors G E Tuppen 6 1 D C George 6 W S Townsend 6 22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 22 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Governance Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director The non-executive directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors and bring an independent judgement to the decision-making process at Board and Committee level.
Their role requires a time commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as necessary to properly discharge their duties.
In terms of commitments outside of the Company any material changes must be reported to and precleared with the Chairman.
The Company has appointed a Senior Independent Director, Mr A J Stewart, whose role and responsibilities are clearly defined, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have any concerns that cannot be resolved through contact via normal channels.
In compliance with the Combined Code the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives during the year to discuss matters in a forum that did not include executive directors or the Chairman.
In addition, all of the non-executives including the Chairman met twice during the year without the executive directors being present to discuss in detail the matters which they believed to be relevant for the purposes of the Strategic Business Reviews, including key operational and financial issues, performance of the Chief Executive and overall feedback arising from the performance evaluation process.
Information and Training The Board and its committees are supplied with full and timely information which enables the proper discharge of their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
There is a formal written procedure concerning independent professional advice setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
The Company has arranged appropriate directors and officers liability insurance to provide cover in the event of legal action against its directors.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its committees and is responsible for advising the Chairman on matters of corporate governance, ensuring the good flow of information to the Board and its committees and between the non-executives and senior management.
The written responsibilities of the Company Secretary are available on the Companys website.
On 1 October 2009, Mr J A Poole, formerly Deputy Company Secretary, was appointed Company Secretary.
All new directors receive an appropriately tailored induction programme arranged to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Group and the key business issues, including social, environmental and ethical issues.
The training needs of each director are regularly reviewed and assessed by the Board.
Existing directors undertake such professional development as is necessary for them to carry out their duties as directors.
During the year the directors have, amongst other matters, received appropriate guidance on further changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006.
Re-election of directors The Articles of Association of the Company require that any directors appointed by the Board will put themselves up for election at the next following Annual General Meeting and also that directors will submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board has determined that re-election of the Chairman and non-executive directors is not automatic and is subject to formal review and recommendation by the Nominations Committee and approval by shareholders.
Board Committees In order to ensure effective leadership and governance the Board governs through clearly identified committees which have delegated powers to deal with specific aspects of the Companys affairs.
A summary of the operation of these committees is set out below.
All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements of the Combined Code are chaired by an independent director or have a majority of independent directors as members.
The names and biographical details of all Board Committee members are set out on pages 7 and 8.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 23 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 23 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Governance The Audit Committee The Boards obligation to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditor is met through the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr D O Maloney who has current and relevant financial experience.
The Committees other members are Mr A J Stewart, Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray.
The Committee met three times during the year to coincide with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the Company including the submission of the interim and annual financial statements.
Representatives from the external auditor, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were in attendance at part or all of each meeting by invitation.
As a matter of best practice the Committee is able to meet alone with external auditors as required at the end of its meetings.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
These are available on the Companys website.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and discusses the nature and scope of their work.
The Committee has also been concerned to ensure that the appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance are being met.
The Company has in place a whistle-blowing policy under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in such matters as financial reporting.
For the year under review the Committee: n has monitored the integrity of the financial statements, interim and final report and accounts and relevant regulatory announcements: n agreed the annual internal external audit plan and has considered external auditor reports and has monitored and followed up management actions in response to issues raised: n met regularly with management and with internal and external auditors to review the effectiveness of internal controls and business risk management and is satisfied that proper and satisfactory internal controls remain in place to identify and contain business risk: n has monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: n reviewed and monitored the independence and objectivity of external auditors: and n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of external auditors for the provision of non-audit services and reviews this annually.
The policy is designed to: n ensure that the engagement does not impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Group financial statements: n establish a transparent process and reporting to enable the Committee to monitor policy compliance: and n avoid unnecessary restrictions on the engagement of auditors for non-audit services where the provision of advice is of a higher quality and more cost-effective than other providers.
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 24 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Governance The policy covers the type of services permitted including: n advice and assurance work regarding direct and indirect tax matters including tax compliance: n due diligence investigations related to potential acquisitions and disposals: and n accounting advice and reviews of accounting standards.
The Committee is confident that in reviewing the external auditors Annual Audit Results Report the objectivity and independence of the auditor are not impaired by the provision of non-audit services.
This report includes a statement confirming compliance by the auditor with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard 5 NonAudit services provided to audit clients.
The Committee is satisfied that such non-audit work is best handled by them due to knowledge of the Group.
The Committee aims to have non-audit work carried out in a manner that affords full value for money and considers it appropriate for commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, to use the external auditor for certain non-audit services.
The amount of non-audit fees charged by auditors is disclosed in note 6 to the accounts.
The Nominations Committee The Committee is chaired by Mr H V Reid and its members are the Chief Executive Mr G E Tuppen and the four non-executive directors Mr A J Stewart, Mr D A Harding, Mrs S E Murray and Mr D O Maloney.
The Committee is responsible for proactively refreshing and reviewing the Boards composition.
The Committee nominates, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning and takes into account the knowledge and skills mix required by the Board in the future.
The Committee meets as required and met once during the year.
The Committee seeks the advice of external recruitment consultants as necessary and follows a formal and transparent procedure to ensure that new appointments comply with the principles set out in the Combined Code and satisfy the needs for the balance of the Board.
Any appointments are based on merit and against objective criteria, including the time available to, and the commitment which will be required of, the potential director.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code to ensure that no director is involved in discussions regarding his or her own succession.
These terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The individual terms and conditions of appointment of directors can be inspected during normal office hours at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year in review the Committee: n reviewed the plan for the retirement of directors under the Companys Articles of Association: n reviewed the framework and the proposed timetable for succession planning for executive and nonexecutive appointments: n reviewed the composition, and recommended to the Board the appointment of new Chairs, of the Audit and Remuneration Committees: n recommended to the Board the appointment of Mr J A Poole as Company Secretary: and n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee is chaired by Mrs S E Murray and its members are the three other non-executive directors Mr A J Stewart, Mr D A Harding and Mr D O Maloney.
The Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors and senior management, including performance-related bonus schemes and the Chairmans fee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 25 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 25 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Governance The Committee appoints external remuneration consultants and advisers as necessary to provide remuneration services and advice to the Remuneration Committee and the Company.
The Committee met on six occasions during the year.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles set out in the Combined Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report which includes details of directors remuneration and directors interests in options, together with information on service contracts, and is set out on pages 29 to 39.
During the period in review the Committee: n determined the remuneration for executive directors and the Chairman: n reviewed overall levels of remuneration for senior managers: n determined the awards and, where relevant, performance targets under the Companys incentive arrangements under the Annual Bonus Plan and Long-term Incentive Plan 2005: n carried out a comprehensive benchmarking review of executive directors remuneration: n carried out a comprehensive review of annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements: n agreed the content and presentation of the remuneration report for inclusion in the report and accounts: and n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
Executive Committee The Board delegates day-to-day management of the Group to the Executive Committee which comprises the three executive directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee generally meets weekly and other members of the Groups Executive Management and Senior Management Teams attend as necessary to provide input and to facilitate communication of the Executive Committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
Finance Committee and Disclosure & Monitoring Committees The Board has delegated, within agreed terms of reference, responsibility for certain matters of a routine nature which are not reserved for full Board consideration to a Finance Committee.
This Committee comprises two executive directors, one of which must be the Chief Financial Officer.
In addition and to ensure full compliance with its obligations under the Disclosure Rules published by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to maintain adequate procedures, systems and controls to enable it to make timely and accurate disclosure of information via a regulatory news service when it is impracticable to hold a full Board meeting.
A separate Monitoring Committee has been established to monitor compliance with the Listing Rules published by the UK Listing Authority, including a policy based on the Model Code which covers dealings in securities of the Company and applies to directors, persons discharging managerial responsibility and employee insiders.
6 of the Combined Code provides that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
During the year the Company has internally undertaken a critical self assessment performance evaluation programme in accordance with this principle and has effectively evaluated the Board, its Committees and its individual directors, including the Chairman.
Board performance evaluation The process was led by the Chairman and all directors completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of these questionnaires are compiled into a report by the Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board.
This years review found that the Board 26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 26 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Governance continued to work well notwithstanding the current economic and strategic challenges and the difficult trading environment.
Board Committee performance evaluation For the Board Committee performance evaluation processes each Committee Chairman and Committee member completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of these questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board.
This years review found there was a continued unanimous agreement that the Board committee structure is adequate and that the structure supports the Board, that the structure of each committee was right for the business and meets the governance requirements of the business and that transition following appointment of new Chairs to the Audit and Remuneration Committees has been successful.
Non-executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chairman and all non-executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each non-executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chairman to review their questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail including any matters arising from the evaluation of the Board and Committee performance.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance.
Executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chief Executive and all executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire and were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chief Executive to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail.
Each executive director is also set challenging performance objectives.
The successful achievement of these objectives makes up part of the short-term incentive criteria under the Annual Bonus Plan 2005.
Shareholder relations The Board places considerable importance on maintaining clear communications with its stakeholders directed to ensuring a mutual understanding of its objectives and has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors to discuss the progress of the business and deal with a wide range of enquiries.
This includes one on one meetings, presentations after the preliminary announcement for the year and the results for the half year and specific analyst presentations with feedback from the Companys brokers as necessary.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that views of major shareholders are fed back to the Board on a regular basis.
The effectiveness of how shareholder views are communicated forms part of the annual Board performance evaluation process.
During the year information about the progress of the Company, including reports, regulatory announcements released through the London Stock Exchange and presentations, is made available simultaneously on its website so that shareholders have full access to material information.
Directors regularly receive copies of analyst reports and reports on movements in major shareholdings as well as key broker comments.
The Annual General Meeting, held in January each year, is the principal opportunity to encourage participation by private investors and procedures at such meetings are in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
The Notice is sent by first class post to shareholders who have opted for hard copy communications at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting and details of proxy votes for and against are made available after the result of hand votes.
In accordance with the Combined Code the Company has proposed in the Notice separate resolutions on each substantial matter.
Again this year the Company is, in line with relevant guidelines, offering shareholders a facility for electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
The voting results are announced on the same day to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 27 17092ENTERPRI.
indd 27 03 12 2009 17:16 03 12 2009 17:16 17092 03 12 2009 Proof 8 Corporate Governance The Company has adopted, pursuant to good investor practice, innovative ways of communicating with shareholders and, in accordance with the provisions introduced in the Companies Act 2006, has given shareholders the opportunity to receive shareholder communications, such as the report and accounts, the interim report and notices of meetings, electronically via the internet rather than in paper form through the post.
Finally the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, deal with a wide range of investor queries on behalf of shareholders.
Details of additional shareholder services are set out on page 123.
Internal Control The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal control for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It carries out such a review at least annually covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
An ongoing process on internal control has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and, with advice from its Audit Committee, is satisfied that this meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and the Turnbull Guidance.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: n Regular Board meetings are held and the Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration.
n The Board carries out an annual review of corporate strategy which includes a review of risks facing the business, and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis within the organisation.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
n An established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
n An established internal audit function which implements the annual internal audit plan as agreed by the Committee.
n Documented and enforced policies and procedures.
n Appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
n Comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances.
n A detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Post-investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board.
n The Audit Committee of the Board, comprising non-executive directors, considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
28 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2009 17092ENTERPRI.
