corporate governance Corporate Governance Report The Filtrona Board is accountable to all the Companys stakeholders, The Board reviews the schedule of reserved matters annually and as well as shareholders, for the standards of governance which during 2009 concluded that the level of authorities delegated to are maintained across Filtronas diverse range of international the Executive Committee and the individual businesses remained businesses.
appropriate within the overall control environment maintained by the Company.
Filtrona is committed to high standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management throughout the During 2009, in the light of the exceptional trading conditions Company.
The Filtrona Board believes that the pursuit of, and which were experienced across the Groups various businesses as adherence to, such best practice standards provides competitive a result of the worldwide recession, the Board was closely engaged advantage across the Group as they improve the efficiency and in detailed monitoring of performance and the actions necessary to effectiveness of the Board, strengthen the controls and processes maintain the profitability of the Company.
However, despite those within the businesses and enhance the quality of decision-making short-term challenges, the Board remained focused on the longer and risk management.
The standards of corporate governance term strategic objectives which it has defined and, in particular, across the Group ultimately underpin the value proposition of the during the year the Board: Company as it pursues its strategic objectives in the delivery of shareholder value and manages its corporate responsibilities.
Evaluated and approved the sale of the Companys North American Plastic Profile & Sheet business which was completed compliance with the combined code in March 2009.
The disposal of this business reflected the Filtrona confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December Boards commitment to delivering shareholder value through the 2009 the Company has complied with the 2008 version of the development of higher margin businesses Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Evaluated and approved the refinancing of the Groups banking Reporting Council the Code, in particular with the Main Principles facilities which were due to expire in May 2010.
The Board set out in section 1 of the Code.
considered that as part of the prudent risk management of the Company, it was appropriate to secure the new financing at The Company applies the Codes principles of openness, integrity the earliest opportunity.
The new facilities meet the financing and accountability through its own behaviour, corporate governance requirements of the Group for its existing businesses and best practice and by adopting, as appropriate and proportionate maintains the Companys ability to invest in potential organic for a company of the size and nature of Filtrona, recommendations growth and acquisition opportunities of relevant professional bodies.
The policies and procedures adopted by the Board and applicable to the Filtrona businesses are documented in a manual which also sets out the roles and delegated authorities applying to the Board, the Executive Committee and the businesses.
These policies and procedures together with any new requirements or further updates, are communicated across the Group whenever necessary.
Board of Directors The Board is collectively committed to promoting the success and strategic direction of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and stewardship to the businesses and management and takes responsibility for the strategic direction of the Company by the implementation and maintenance of its core values and governance controls.
The Board is of the view that it has a highly competent Chairman and that the members of the Board and senior executive teams are well equipped to drive, and are capable of delivering on, the Companys strategy.
The Board has adopted a schedule of reserved matters which are required to be reviewed by it, including: group strategy approval of annual, half year results and quarterly interim management statements annual budgets treasury policies major capital and operating expenditure proposals, acquisitions and disposals health, safety and environmental policies appointments to the Board system of internal control dividend payments Jeff Harris, Chairman and Jon Green, Company Secretary & General Counsel 62 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSIneSS corporate FInancIaL overvIeW revIeW governance StateMentS Closely monitored the Companys response to rapidly-changing plans and budgets for the divisions.
Board meetings are structured general economic conditions to ensure delivery of short and to allow open discussion and all Directors participate in determining long-term value within the Group the Groups strategy and regularly reviewing the trading and Evaluated and approved a formal bid in relation to a strategically financial performance of the Company.
significant acquisition opportunity which was the subject of an auction process.
The Board was disappointed not to secure The internal procedures implemented by the Company to ensure the the target business, but was satisfied that the review processes Board maintains overall control for all material strategic, financial, undertaken during the bid preparation were of the highest operational and compliance matters affecting the Company are quality and reflected the Companys commitment to appropriate included within the internal control section of this Report set out on risk review whilst considering the development of the Group page 67.
Considered the latest actuarial valuations of the Companys defined benefit pension schemes and, in seeking to reduce the conflict of interests potential future liabilities under the schemes, proposed changes The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider in the benefits payable under the respective schemes and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an Assessed the quality of the Boards oversight of health and safety interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests matters against best practice and adopted recommendations of the Company.
In addition the Company has a conflict of interests designed to further enhance the level of its reviews and the policy governing the responsibilities of Directors in such situations.
communication of its leadership The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted Directors those who have no interest in the matter The Board acknowledges the importance of management being considered and in making such a decision the Directors must development and succession planning in the delivery of the act honestly and in good faith when giving authorisation where Companys strategic objectives.
During the year the Board they think this is appropriate, and will be most likely to promote the undertook a detailed review of succession planning across the Companys success.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel senior management team.
In addition, following on from one of the maintains a register of Directors interests so that any potential recommendations made during the Board performance evaluation concerns are addressed before any material concerns may arise.
of 2008, the Board engaged with an external service provider During the course of the year there were no material conflicts of who undertook a leadership development programme with senior interest impacting on the conduct of the Boards activities.
executives from the Group Operating Committee GOC.
composition of the Board The Board establishes the standards and values that govern the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately Group and agrees the structure of the Groups internal controls.
The held and are so defined as to ensure a clear separation of Board looks to the Audit Committee to undertake the majority of the responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its work involved in monitoring and seeking assurance as to compliance effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive with the controls within this framework.
However, the Board as a management and performance of Filtronas operations.
whole maintains oversight of such important matters and after each committee meeting the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports on During the year, Terry Twigger was appointed as a Non-executive the matters which have been reviewed.
Director following the resignation of Adrian Auer.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Nomination and In the opinion of the Board, Paul Drechsler, Lars Emilson and Terry Remuneration Committees.
These Committees report as appropriate Twigger are each considered to be independent of management as to the Board.
All the Committees have clearly defined terms of detailed in the Code and there are no relationships or circumstances reference.
These are reviewed annually and are available on the which would materially interfere with the exercise of their website www.
During the year, there were nine scheduled Board meetings, one The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors provide an of which was held overseas at the new Hungarian Filter Products independent view in Board discussions and in the development facility.
In addition to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board of the Companys strategy.
Non-executive Directors also ensure met on a number of other occasions as required and, in particular, a sound basis for good corporate governance for the Company, reviewed in detail, in conjunction with outside advisers, the further challenging managements performance and, in conjunction with development and delivery of the Group strategy.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial controls Chief Executive maintain regular contact with the Directors and the and systems of risk management are maintained as appropriate to Chairman also holds periodic informal discussions with the Nonthe needs of the businesses within Filtrona.
executive Directors, without any of the Executive Directors being present, to review performance and to monitor corporate The Chairman and each of the other Non-executive Directors control mechanisms.
have considerable international experience at a senior level in the management of activities broadly similar to those carried out by the The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary & Company and the material issues likely to arise for the Group.
General Counsel, sets the programme for the Board during the year.
At each scheduled meeting, the Board considers a report from The Board is content that the Non-executive Directors devote the Chief Executive on health and safety performance and current sufficient time to the business of Filtrona.
trading, a financial review from the Group Finance Director and other significant business issues.
Additionally, the Board receives The letters of appointment for Non-executive Directors are available presentations and considers reports from senior management about for review at the Companys registered office and prior to the AGM.
matters of material importance to the Company.
The Board receives detailed presentations from each of the Managing Directors or Paul Drechsler acts as the Senior Independent Non-executive Presidents of the Divisions in relation to the respective strategic Director and can be contacted via the Companys registered 63 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I corporate governance Corporate Governance Report office.
In that role he is available to shareholders to discuss and develop an understanding of their issues and any concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or where such contact is inappropriate.
The Articles of Association of the Company require one third of the Directors to retire from office each year and for all Directors to submit themselves for re-election on a date which is no more than three years from the date of their appointment or last reappointment.
The Directors retiring at the forthcoming AGM and submitting themselves for reappointment are Paul Drechsler and Lars Emilson.
Terry Twigger was appointed as a Director subsequent to the Companys AGM held in 2009 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, is putting himself forward for election.
Following the Board performance evaluation undertaken during the financial year, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for re-election continue to be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
The following were Directors of the Company during the year and attended the following number of meetings during the year ended 31 December 2009: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Held 9 4 3 4 attended Jeff Harris Chairman 9 3 Mark Harper Chief Executive 9 Steve Crummett Group Finance Director 9 Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director 9 4 3 4 Lars Emilson Non-executive Director 9 4 3 4 1 Terry Twigger Non-executive Director 4 2 1 2 Adrian Auer Non-executive Director 4 1 2 1 Appointed 1 June 2009 2 Resigned 1 June 2009 Terry Twigger was excused from the December 2009 Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings due to an engagement which existed prior to his appointment as a Non-executive Director.
During the year, Jeff Harris was appointed temporary acting chairman of Bunzl plc where he was already a non-executive director.
The Board did not consider that such role materially impacted upon his contribution to the Company.
Jeff will be resigning as a director from Bunzl plc at the end of February 2010.
Information and professional development The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, takes responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The agenda for each Board and Committee meeting is considered by the relevant Chairman and papers for each scheduled formal Board and Committee meeting are usually provided five clear working days beforehand.
In addition, the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Executive Directors to discuss current trading and financial performance and other specific issues which may arise from time to time.
On appointment an induction programme tailored to their individual needs is available to Directors and designed to assist them in their understanding of Filtrona and its operations.
Throughout a Directors tenure they are encouraged to develop their knowledge of the Group through meetings with senior management and site visits.
Directors are also provided with updates, as appropriate, on matters such as fiduciary duties, Companies Act requirements, share dealing restrictions and corporate governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary & General Counsel who is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
During the year under review the Company Secretary & General Counsels advice was sought in relation to share dealings.
In furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional advice during the year.
performance evaluation During 2009, the annual evaluation of the Boards performance was undertaken with an internal self-assessment exercise through the use of web-based software supplied by an external organisation.
Questionnaires were developed by the Company Secretary & General Counsel in conjunction with the Chairman and they were submitted with non-attributable, confidential responses and the participants were able to identify opportunities for improvement where applicable.
64 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSIneSS corporate FInancIaL overvIeW revIeW governance StateMentS As part of the 2009 Board performance evaluation, the Non-executive Directors appraised the Chairmans performance and the Senior Independent Director has discussed the results with the Chairman.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committees also conducted an evaluation of their work and effectiveness.
The respective evaluations were conducted on a similar basis to that used for the Board and the results were reported to the Board by the respective Committee Chairmen.
Given the appointment of a new Chairman of the Audit Committee part way through the year, it was decided to proceed with an evaluation of the Committee by the members excluding the Chairman together with regular attendees to Audit Committee meetings, including the Company Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys auditor, the Group Head of Audit, and the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee.
The review focused on the Audit Committees role, processes and performance since demerger and recommended potential areas for improvement.
The Chairman of the Committee has reviewed the comments and recommendations with the Company Secretary & General Counsel and reported the results to the Board.
An analysis of the feedback from the evaluation exercise was reviewed and discussed by the Board.
The performance evaluation concluded that the Board and each of its Committees were operating effectively in the discharge of their respective duties.
However, the Board identified that further value would be added, and additional benefits would be derived, by improvements to communication between the Board and the Group Operating Committee, together with other senior management, and by further developing the Boards knowledge and understanding of the Company businesses.
As a result, it has been agreed to implement during 2010 a programme of additional meetings between Board members and other senior management outside the formality of the Boardroom.
In support of this, it is intended that an additional Board meeting will be conducted at an operational facility across the Group during the year.
Insurance In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of those liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated this policy will be renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover to the extent that the Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
audit committee The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply the required financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditor KPMG Audit Plc.
The Audit Committee supports the Board in the achievement of those objectives.
During the year, Terry Twigger was appointed as the Chairman of the Audit Committee following the resignation of Adrian Auer on 1 June 2009.
The other members are Paul Drechsler and Lars Emilson.
The Board is satisfied that Terry Twigger has recent and relevant financial experience.
A representative of the Companys external auditor ordinarily attends all meetings of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director and Group Head of Audit are normally invited to attend the meetings, along with the Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year and maintains a formal calendar of items that are to be considered by the Audit Committee.
The timetable of these items is scheduled in accordance with the requirements of the annual audit cycle.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are defined in its Terms of Reference.
In pursuance of its responsibilities the Audit Committee undertook the following work during the year: examined the full year financial statements and half year results, reviewing, challenging and approving the going concern basis of preparation, the accounting policies, the financial reporting issues and the judgement of the finance management received a report from the external auditor on their review of the effectiveness of the internal controls reviewed and considered reports from the Group Head of Audit including any issues relating to internal controls and the status of actions taken in response to any identified concerns reviewed the performance of the internal audit function reviewed the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk and considered the key risks arising from the Companys activities and the response of senior management to those challenges reviewed the Companys Whistleblowing policy to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for facilitate the proportionate and independent investigation of any issues raised by employees assessed the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process which enabled the Committee to recommend the reappointment of the external auditor at the AGM reviewed and approved proposals for the engagement of the external auditor for non-audit services 65 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I corporate governance Corporate Governance Report In 2009 the Audit Committee also: reviewed and approved the revision of the Group Treasury policies relating to funding and balance sheet hedging received a presentation from the Group Head of Tax and Treasury on strategic planning and objectives, the Companys international tax matters, and overall Group tax rate management conducted an analysis of areas of uninsured risk following the annual renewal of the Groups insurance programme reviewed and approved a revised Group Code of Business Ethics policy designed to further drive appropriate behaviours in the delivery of the Companys strategic objectives reviewed and approved a Group Risk policy The Audit Committee considers annually the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The importance of maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, by minimising its involvement in projects of a non-audit nature, is of concern to the Audit Committee.
It is, however, also acknowledged that, due to its detailed understanding of the Companys business, it may sometimes be necessary to involve the external auditor in non-audit related work, principally comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions, disposals and tax services.
During the year, the external auditor was employed to provide services in relation to the disposal of the Companys North American Plastic Profile & Sheet business and the significant strategic acquisition opportunity which was discontinued in September 2009.
The Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without the Companys management being present and conducts an annual assessment of the performance of the external auditor and the Companys internal audit function.
nomination committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises Jeff Harris, who chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler, Lars Emilson and Terry Twigger.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation as appropriate.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for selecting and recommending candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for conducting an annual review of the register of notified interests and any new interests, in accordance with the Groups Conflict of Interests policy.
The Nomination Committee meets as required, and during 2009 it met three times.
In furtherance of these duties and when considering succession planning, the Nomination Committee looks at the balance, structure and composition of the Board and takes into account the future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The selection process is, in the Boards view, both rigorous and transparent in order to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria set by the Nomination Committee.
With the benefit of assistance from external advisers, the Nomination Committee made a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment of Terry Twigger to the Board in June 2009.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Group Conflict of Interests policy and register and was satisfied that there were no material issues of conflict.
The Company has established a procedure whereby actual or potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and proper authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new Director.
The Board considers these procedures to be working effectively.
remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Paul Drechsler who chairs the Committee, Lars Emilson and Terry Twigger.
The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is described more fully in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 53 to 61.
Shareholder communications Filtrona seeks to maintain open and transparent relationships with its shareholders and other stakeholders, including providers of finance, customers and suppliers.
This is achieved by regular updates through press announcements, the corporate website and other published material.
The Company also communicates regularly with its major institutional shareholders and ensures that all the Directors, including the Nonexecutive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders and are able to explain business developments and financial results as appropriate.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
Presentations for analysts and institutional shareholders were held during the year and meetings were also held with key institutional investors to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities.
Slide presentations are made immediately available after the full year and half year results and are also available on the Companys website to view and download.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet any of the Directors of the Company should they so wish.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board so they are aware of any issues or concerns.
Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
66 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSIneSS corporate FInancIaL overvIeW revIeW governance StateMentS At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be made available, both at the meeting and subsequently on the Companys website.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM and related papers will be posted to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
Internal control In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure that an adequate system of internal controls is in place which is essential for reliable financial reporting and also for the effective management of the Group.
The Audit Committee assesses the quality of the control environment when monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any significant judgements that were made in their preparation.
Filtronas internal controls are designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to ensure the integrity and reliability of information used both within the businesses and for public announcements.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The following procedures are in place which enable the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control: The Board receives detailed reports at each scheduled Board Meeting on the operational and financial performance of the businesses from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, together with regular updates on any material issues which may impact on the Group The Board receives reports from the Company Secretary & General Counsel on any material legal and compliance issues which may impact on the Group The Board receives copies of the minutes from all Executive Committee meetings and discuss any material issues arising therefrom at each scheduled Board meeting or as otherwise appropriate.
The Executive Committee, which meets at least twice per month, is made up of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary & General Counsel and the Director of Group Human Resources.
Each meeting includes a review of health and safety and trading performance, acquisition and investment activity, material contract and litigation issues, risk management and any concerns arising from personnel matters The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group, supported by the external auditor and the Group Head of Audit.
The Group Head of Audit provides detailed reports and the external auditor advises the Audit Committee in writing of any areas of concern identified during the course of their audit programmes during the year.
The Audit Committee considers any issues raised in any reports and monitors the actions taken by the Company in response to those issues.
The internal audit programme for each year is planned using a number of factors, including the size and nature of the operations, any previous years findings and any changes in the day-to-day management processes or teams, and the programme is discussed and agreed with the Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets with the external auditor and the Group Head of Audit without the Executive Directors or other senior executives in attendance The Audit Committee reviews a risk management report from the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee at each meeting.
The risk management report includes an analysis of the key risks at a Group level and within the operating divisions, summarises developments potentially impacting the Group from a risk, governance or compliance perspective and proposes actions for the Company in response to such developments.
The Audit Committee considers any issues raised in the report and monitors the actions taken by the Company in response to those issues The Audit Committee receives regular risk management presentations from senior management within the respective divisions The Audit Committee receives a report from the Company Secretary & General Counsel on any issues raised pursuant to the Companys Whistleblowing policy and monitors the actions taken by the Company in response to those issues The Board has the opportunity to review the internal control environment at local sites when Board meetings are held away from the Companys head office Every month each Division submits detailed operating and financial reports covering all aspects of performance.
These are reviewed within the Groups central finance function and summary reports are communicated to the Executive Committee and the Board Compliance certificates are required from the businesses to confirm compliance with the Groups policies and procedures Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-to-day management of the divisions are delegated to the Chief Executive supported by the Executive Committee and to the respective Divisional Managing Directors or Presidents, as appropriate, within delegated authority limits and in accordance with clearly defined systems of internal control.
During 2009, the GOC which consists of the Executive Committee members and the Divisional Managing Directors or Presidents, as appropriate, met quarterly to discuss health and safety performance, risk management, business performance, employee-related matters, including succession planning, and key operational and financial management issues across Filtronas international businesses.
The GOC was particularly focused on the management responses to the rapidly changing economic environment, ensuring that the Group was able to react quickly as stakeholders also changed their focus during the year.
Biographies of the GOC members demonstrating the range of management expertise within the Companys senior executive team appear on page 45.
67 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I corporate governance Corporate Governance Report Policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing review and updated as required in response to strategic, operational, business, legal or regulatory developments, with the approval of the Board or its respective Committees as appropriate, are communicated across the Company and designed to ensure significant risks, investment decisions and management issues are identified, considered and escalated as necessary at the earliest opportunity.
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents are responsible for ensuring the communication of and compliance with Filtronas internal controls across their respective divisions.
The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the Groups cash flow from operating activities represented in excess of 100% of underlying operating profit in 2009, reflecting what it believes to be a robust control environment.
control of significant risks The Board has two main responsibilities in relation to risk.
One is to determine the risk appetite of the Group and communicate to the organisation what constitutes acceptable risk-taking.
The second responsibility is to oversee the management process for the identification, assessment and mitigation of risk across the Group.
During the year, the Audit Committee approved a new Group Risk policy to support the Board in fulfilling those responsibilities and to reinforce the continuing risk review processes embedded within the divisions.
The Board is of the view that a rigorous ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was in place throughout 2009 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report for 2009.
This process includes: Businesses are required to implement processes to formally identify risks, consider their financial and non-financial implications and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
The process includes the maintenance of a register for identifying and evaluating significant risks and the related financial, operational and compliance controls to mitigate their impact Divisional executives are required to include risk management on agendas for their regular management meetings and to report to the Risk Management Committee RMC on actions taken to review the effectiveness of their controls The submission by each division of quarterly risk profiles to the RMC for its review and reporting to the Audit Committee Each division presenting during the year to either the RMC or the Audit Committee on issues detailed within the quarterly risk profiles and matters such as business continuity planning and disaster recovery.
This schedule of presentations was implemented in 2009 to further enhance the Boards oversight and understanding of the key risks impacting on the conduct of the Groups businesses and the actions taken to minimise their effect on the delivery of Filtronas strategic objectives.
Group manuals detailing accounting requirements and establishing comprehensive policies in relation to matters which are regarded as prudent to ensure that appropriate controls are maintained across the Group, including in relation to business conduct, conflict of interests, health and safety and other corporate responsibility matters A comprehensive insurance programme The RMC is chaired by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, which ensures an appropriate separation of powers and division of responsibilities particularly in relation to financial matters.
The other members are the Executive Directors, the Director of Group Human Resources, the Group Head of Audit and the Group Head of Tax and Treasury.
The RMC met five times during the year.
The RMC enhances managements ability to review and monitor the effectiveness of risk control on a regular basis.
The terms of reference of the RMC include supporting corporate governance requirements, recommending business risk strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
They also include the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
During the year, the RMC gave particular attention to the risks associated with refinancing, disposal of businesses, acquisition activity, business performance and the transfer of business operations in response to customer needs and operational demands.
The RMC review not only gives consideration to financial and operational matters but also has regard to non-financial matters such as health and safety, environmental, social and employee issues impacting the Group and reputational risk.
Policies and processes are in place to ensure that the activities undertaken in relation to all such matters are designed to reduce the risk profile of the Company.
During 2009, in addition to the Risk Policy, the RMC continued to review the Group policies which are in place to support the corporate governance framework.
This resulted in a revised Code of Business Ethics policy being approved by the Audit Committee.
This review will continue into 2010 with particular emphasis on the introduction of an Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy to further strengthen the Companys existing controls.
Additional measures will be established to ensure that all Company policies are fully implemented, appropriately communicated and continually supported, with ongoing training and monitoring, throughout the various jurisdictions within which Filtrona operates.
Where appropriate, the Company takes external expert advice when reviewing the Companys exposure to risk.
The resources of the Companys internal audit department are augmented with independent expert external resource wherever necessary to review risk and monitor compliance with the Companys policies and procedures across its international operations.
Accordingly the resources of the department, together with the additional available resources, are considered adequate.
68 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2009 I BUSIneSS corporate FInancIaL overvIeW revIeW governance StateMentS Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Company.
Taxation, treasury and insurance functions report to the Board via the Group Finance Director.
The legal and governance compliance functions report to the Board via the Company Secretary & General Counsel, whilst the Chief Executive, supported by the Director of Group Human Resources and the Company Secretary & General Counsel, reports to the Board on corporate responsibility issues.
The Company operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at both divisional and corporate level.
This process includes the analysis of significant risks relating to market trends and operational performance.
Monthly performance is reported against budget and the prior year and forecasts are updated as appropriate.
Monthly management accounts analyse and explain variances and report on performance indicators, with detailed explanations for variances and movements on updated forecasts being reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee review the arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial reporting or other matters in accordance with the Companys Whistleblowing policy.
Financial reporting The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 52, their responsibility for preparing the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The external auditor has included, in the Independent Auditors Report set out on page 107, a statement about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the publication of unaudited quarterly interim management statements and half year results as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority providing an explanation of material events and transactions that have taken place during the relevant period and their impact on the financial position of the Company and the Group and a general description of the financial position and performance of the Company and the Group during the relevant period.
going concern disclosure Further information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 32 to 33.
In addition, note 1 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and borrowings are included in note 12 to the financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guide for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Information on the business environment Filtrona operates in, including factors likely to affect its future development, is included in the Business Review on pages 10 to 43.
