ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 44 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Combined Code ENRC is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This report details how the Company has applied the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which was published in June 2008.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions of the Code with the exception of Provision A.
2.2, which states that: The Chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out in A.
A Chief Executive should not go on to be Chairman of the same company.
If exceptionally a Board decides that a Chief Executive should become Chairman, the Board should consult major shareholders in advance and should set out its reasons to shareholders at the time of the appointment and in the next annual report.
On 14 August 2009 we announced a number of Board changes which took effect on 20 August 2009.
Sir David Cooksey resigned as Chairman in order to focus on his appointment as Chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited.
Dr Johannes Sittard accepted the position of non-executive Chairman in his place and Felix Vulis was promoted to Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer.
Sir Richard Sykes was appointed as non-executive Deputy Chairman of the Group.
The Board did consult with its major shareholders during the period leading up to the announcement on 14 August 2009.
The shareholders supported the view that Dr Sittards extensive knowledge of both ENRC and the mining industry and his successful leadership during the Companys IPO justified his elevation to Chairman and that the retention of his expertise was of significant importance in the Groups continuing success and development.
As a result of this support it was not considered necessary to appoint an external search consultancy to assist with the appointment of the new Chairman.
In addition, it was agreed that Sir Richard Sykes, Senior Independent Director of the Company, should be made Deputy Chairman so as to utilise his extensive experience of UK listed companies in the metals and mining sector and provide additional support to the new Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Role of the Board The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Company and ensuring that its principal goal is to enhance the Companys long-term value for the benefit of shareholders, whilst having regard to the interests of other stakeholders.
At its regular meetings the Board reviews the Companys long-term strategic direction, capital expenditure and budget plans and monitors on a regular basis the Companys operating and financial performance and its approach to risk management and Corporate Governance.
The Board also reviews management performance and succession planning and assesses whether the Company has the necessary resources in place to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its attention and which are published on the Companys website.
Board composition During the period under review, the composition of the Board changed several times.
This is shown in the table below Period Description of Change Balance of Board 1 January 31 May 2009 No change Non-executive Chairman 2 Executive Directors 10 non-executive Directors 1 June 30 June 2009 Resignation of Mr Miguel Perry 30 June 2009 Non-executive Chairman 1 Executive Director 10 non-executive Directors 1 July 31 August 2009 Resignation of Sir David Cooksey 20 August 2009 Non-executive Chairman Appointment of Dr Johannes Sittard 20 August 2009 1 Executive Director Appointment of Mr Felix Vulis 20 August 2009 10 non-executive Directors 1 September 30 September 2009 Appointment of Ms Zaure Zaurbekova 30 September 2009 Non-executive Chairman 2 Executive Directors 10 non-executive Directors 1 October 31 December 2009 Resignation of Mr Michael Eggleton 6 October 2009 Non-executive Chairman 2 Executive Directors 9 non-executive Directors 1 January 2010 12 April 2010 Appointment of Professor Dr. Dieter Ameling 26 January 2010 Non-executive Chairman 2 Executive Directors 10 non-executive Directors The Board currently comprises, in addition to the Chairman, two Executive Directors and 10 non-executive Directors, seven of whom are independent according to the definition in the Code.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly separated and their responsibilities have been set out in writing.
The Board is chaired by Dr Johannes Sittard and he is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it functions effectively.
Mr Felix Vulis is the Chief Executive Officer and he is responsible for the operational management of the Group and the execution of the Groups strategy.
In order to further strengthen the balance of independent and non-independent Directors on the Board, the Nomination Committee decided to seek the appointment of a further independent non-executive Director and in January 2010 recommended the appointment of Professor Dr Dieter Ameling whom the Board subsequently approved.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 45 Miguel Perry left the Company on 30 June 2009 and Ms Zaure Zaurbekova was subsequently appointed as Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 30 September 2009 after a period as acting Chief Financial Officer.
On 6 October 2009, Michael Eggleton resigned as a non-executive Director in order to take up the position of Chief Executive Officer of Eurasian Bank, a related party.
Mr Utepov and Mr Beketayev are representatives of The State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and as such are not considered by the Board to be independent under the provisions of the Code.
Under the relationship agreements between the Company and each of the Founder Shareholders as disclosed in the Directors Report on pages 41 to 43, each of the Founder Shareholders has the right to appoint one Director to the Board, so long as his shareholder group controls 10% or more of the voting rights exercisable at general meetings of the Company.
Pursuant to this right, Mr Ibragimov has appointed Mr Yedilbayev to the Board.
He is not considered to be independent under the Code.
Sir Richard Sykes has been appointed as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman and his principal duty in this capacity is to evaluate the performance of the Chairman and address any shareholders concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or in cases when such communications would be inappropriate.
Details of the individuals skills and experience are contained within the Directors biographies on pages 04 and 05.
Directors attendance at Board and Committee Meetings during 2009 During 2009 there were eight formal scheduled Board meetings.
The attendance of individual Directors at these Board meetings and the Board Committee meetings is shown in the table below: Scheduled Board Meetings Attended Audit Remuneration Nomination HSES M&A Independent 2009 Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Gerhard Ammann Yes 8 8 5 5 12 12 Marat Beketayev No 7 8 2 2 1 1 4 Sir David Cooksey Yes 5 5 9 9 Mehmet Dalman Yes 8 8 9 9 10 10 1 1 5 Michael Eggleton Yes 6 6 4 4 10 10 Sir Paul Judge Yes 8 8 5 5 8 9 10 10 Kenneth Olisa Yes 7 8 4 5 8 9 8 10 3 Miguel Perry No 4 4 Dr Johannes Sittard No 8 8 2 2 2 2 Sir Richard Sykes Yes 8 8 9 9 11 12 1 1 Roderick Thomson Yes 8 8 5 5 11 12 Eduard Utepov No 6 8 1 2 1 Felix Vulis No 3 3 2 2 Abdraman Yedilbayev No 8 8 2 2 2 Zaure Zaurbekova No 2 2 Ten ad hoc meetings of the Board were also held throughout the year to approve matters such as the Preliminary and Interim Results announcements and the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2008.
1 Felix Vulis appointed on 20 August 2009.
2 Zaure Zaurbekova appointed on 30 September 2009.
4 Sir David Cooksey resigned 20 August 2009.
Board responsibility and accountability The Board is provided with regular, timely and relevant information in a form that enables it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally distributed five days in advance of meetings to enable Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the matters to be discussed.
The Board also holds at least one formal meeting per year in Kazakhstan to enable Directors to gain a greater understanding of the Groups operating environment.
In September 2009, the Board held a Board meeting in Astana.
Whilst there, they visited Shubarkol Komir, Kazmarganets and Zhairem GOK open cast mines.
Following the acquisition of CAMEC in November 2009, it is anticipated that the Board will also hold one of its annual meetings in Africa.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and ensuring that Board procedures and applicable laws and regulations are followed.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary provides regular updates to the Board on the legal and regulatory environment and is responsible for ensuring that any other training needs are identified and met.
The Company ensures that related party transactions are identified, disclosed and managed and a regular report is presented to the Board for approval.
All Directors declare their interests in other businesses on appointment to the Board and a review of situational conflicts is carried out annually.
On appointment, Directors are provided with adequate information to ensure that they fully understand the business of the Group and their legal and regulatory responsibilities as a Director of the Company.
The appointment and removal of the General Counsel and Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 46 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Board has put in place a procedure whereby all Directors have access, through the General Counsel and Company Secretary, to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Company also maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers liability insurance.
An indemnity has been in place since 2008 for the benefit of current Directors and Officers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries to enable the Company to fund the costs incurred by Directors in defending certain claims against them in relation to their duties as Directors and Officers.
The indemnity operates only to the extent that the Directors and Officers liability insurance does not afford protection.
Board evaluation In 2008 an external consultant was appointed to carry out the first annual Board Evaluation.
In 2009 the decision was taken to conduct the annual Board evaluation process internally via the use of online questionnaires.
Each Director was asked to complete detailed questionnaires about the Board, the Board Committees of which they were a member at the time of the evaluation and their personal assessment of Directors individual contributions.
The results and any comments were amalgamated into a single report which was then discussed collectively by the Board.
The Board was satisfied that progress had been made and that the Board had worked well together over the course of the year.
Areas of additional focus were identified and these will be addressed during 2010.
These include furthering the Boards knowledge of operating environments as the Group expands globally, particularly Sub-Saharan Africa, as well as increased focus on corporate strategy.
The non-executive Directors, led by Sir Richard Sykes as Senior Independent Director, would ordinarily have carried out an evaluation of the Chairman.
However, in light of Dr Johannes Sittards recent appointment as Chairman, it was decided that a full review of his performance would be carried out during the next evaluation process.
Re-election of Directors Under the current Articles of Association, a minimum of one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
This ensures that each Director is re-elected at least every three years.
Dr Johannes Sittard, Mr Roderick Thomson and Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev will be offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Additionally, those Directors appointed by the Board since the AGM held in June 2009 are required to be formally elected for the first time by the shareholders in general meeting.
Accordingly, Professor Dieter Ameling, Mr Felix Vulis and Ms Zaure Zaurbekova will all offer themselves for election at the AGM to be held in June 2010.
The Board remains satisfied that each Director proposed for election and re-election is competent to carry out his or her responsibilities as a member of the Board.
Board Committees The Board has established five principal Committees.
During September 2009, the Nomination Committee undertook a review of the membership of all the Board Committees and made a number of recommendations to the Board.
As a result of this, the membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees was unchanged but changes were made to the membership of the Nomination and HSES Committees.
In addition, the Nomination Committee recommended and the Board approved the formation of a new Mergers and Acquisitions Committee.
Health, Safety, Environment & Mergers & Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Sustainability Committee Acquisitions Committee Gerhard Ammann Sir Richard Sykes Gerhard Ammann Felix Vulis Mehmet Dalman Sir Paul Judge Mehmet Dalman Marat Beketayev Professor Dr Dieter Marat Beketayev Kenneth Olisa Sir Paul Judge Sir Richard Sykes Ameling Professor Dr Dieter Roderick Thomson Kenneth Olisa Dr Johannes Sittard Dr Johannes Sittard Ameling Roderick Thomson Eduard Utepov Sir Richard Sykes Abdraman Yedilbayev Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Gerhard Ammann, who is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Sir Paul Judge, Mr Kenneth Olisa and Mr Roderick Thomson, all of whom are independent nonexecutive Directors.
Each member is considered to have extensive commercial and business leadership experience.
Under its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website, the Audit Committee is required to meet at least four times a year at appropriate times in the reporting and audit cycle.
Meetings are timed so as to enable the Committee to review the Groups key financial announcements prior to release.
The Audit Committee Chairman provides a verbal update on the Committee findings and recommendations at the next Board meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or improvement is required.
Invitations to attend Audit Committee meetings are extended to the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman, none of whom attend by right.
In addition, the external auditors attend each Committee meeting and also meet separately with the Committee to facilitate discussions without the presence of management.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 47 The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the Charter states that the Head of Internal Audit is accountable to following: the Audit Committee and is to provide Group management with the following: to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial reporting: to review the Groups internal control and risk management An independent, objective, positive assurance on effectiveness of systems: internal controls in mitigating inherent risks of audited processes to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: or significant projects or initiatives.
and To provide value-adding consulting services to the ENRC Group to oversee the relationship with the Groups external auditors.
management designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Groups operations, and to safeguard both the Committee activities assets and the integrity of the Group.
The Committee met five times during 2009.
During the year the Whistleblowing Committee considered the following issues: The whistleblowing policy enables employees to raise any concerns Companys Preliminary and Interim Results announcements, they may have about workplace fraud or mismanagement with local financial statements and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The complaint is then Received regular reports from the internal audit function and the investigated in the first instance and a decision taken about further external auditors.
Feedback is provided to the person making the complaint.
Completed an annual review of internal control.
Written records are kept of all whistleblowing incidents and a regular Considered areas of high risk and were provided with updates status report is presented at each Board meeting.
relating to compliance and risk management reporting Health, Safety, Environment & Sustainability Committee frameworks.
HSES Committee Implemented a revised procurement policy, purchasing policy Following a review by the Board in September 2009, it was agreed and procedure framework.
that Mr Felix Vulis should become Chairman of the Committee Received regular updates detailing the net risk assessment of the following his appointment as CEO of the Group.
Up until then the Group and a summary of inherent risk matrices.
HSES Committee had been chaired by Dr Johannes Sittard.
Dr Reviewed Project Arrow: a Business Transformation Programme Sittard remains a member of the Committee.
The other members are which includes the design and implementation of new processes Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev and Mr Eduard Utepov who are both and the necessary IT systems.
non-executive Directors of the Company and Professor Dr Dieter Reviewed financial reporting procedures to be operated by the Ameling an independent non-executive Director who was appointed Group.
to the Committee on 19 March 2010.
External audit The role of the HSES Committee is to assist the Board in its The overall performance of the external auditors is reviewed annually oversight of the following: by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the external auditors remain independent of the health, safety, environment and community risks: Company in all material respects and that  the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory LLP, as external auditors, are adequately resourced so as to enable requirements associated with health, safety, environment and the delivery of an objective audit to the shareholders.
The Audit community matters: Committee is also responsible for making formal recommendations the Groups performance in relation to health, safety, environment each year to the Board in respect of the continuation of the external and community impact and monitoring sustainable development: auditors in office.
 LLP have been the and Companys auditors since before it was listed on the London Stock the preparation of a report by the Committee to be included in the Exchange in December 2007.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied Annual Report.
with their effectiveness and independence.
Accordingly, the Committee has not considered it necessary to date, to require the Further details of the work of the HSES Committee are set out in the firm to tender for its audit work.
The external auditors are required to Sustainability Review on pages 36 to 40. rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years and the current lead partner has been in Nomination Committee place for three years.
The Nomination Committee was chaired by Sir David Cooksey until his resignation as Chairman of the Company in August 2009.
The The Audit Committee also reviews the level and nature of any Board appointed Dr Johannes Sittard as Chairman of the Committee non-audit work to be performed during the year and considers in September 2009.
At that time the Board reviewed the Committee whether it is appropriate for this work to be carried out by the membership and decided that in order to achieve a more effective external auditors.
The external auditors are precluded from engaging Committee, the number of members be reduced.
The other in non-audit services that would compromise their independence Committee members are Mr Gerhard Ammann, Sir Richard Sykes, and objectivity or violate any laws or regulations affecting their Mr Roderick Thomson, and Mr Marat Beketayev.
The role of the Nomination Committee is as follows: Internal Audit reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, taking The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee at each of into account the skills, knowledge and experience of Directors its meetings and provides assurance, independent of the assurance and for recommending to the Board any new candidates: and provided by the Chief Financial Officer, that control activities, which giving full consideration as to whether non-executive Directors have been subject to audit by his team, are operating effectively.
have sufficient time to devote to the proper performance of their duties and make recommendations in relation to the retirement The implementation of an Internal Audit Charter, approved by the and re-election of Directors at the Companys AGM and Committee in December 2008, has improved the effectiveness and succession planning.
efficiency of the Groups operations.
The basis of the Internal Audit CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 48 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued In addition, the Committee has assumed day to day responsibility for Mergers and Acquisitions Committee monitoring Directors conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of The Board decided in September 2009 that a Mergers and interest in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Acquisitions Committee should be formed to consider and scrutinise Committee carried out an annual review of situational conflicts which mergers and acquisition opportunities which may be of benefit to the was presented to the Board.
As a result of this review, a number of Group.
It is chaired by Mr Mehmet Dalman.
The other members are additional situational conflicts were approved by the Board.
Sir Richard Sykes, Mr Marat Beketayev and Professor Dr Dieter Ameling who was appointed to the Committee on 19 March 2010.
The Committee is required to meet at least twice a year and during 2009 it met 12 times.
The majority of these meetings were to The main roles of the Committee are as follows: consider and make recommendations in respect of the various to review and discuss with management all necessary due Board changes and succession planning as part of the process.
The diligence on prospective mergers and acquisition projects: Committee considered both internal and external candidates with to receive detailed analysis of prospective mergers and relevant knowledge of the mining industry or experience of working acquisitions projects: in emerging markets.
The Committees terms of reference are to oversee the post-acquisition integration of target acquisitions: available on the Companys website.
and to oversee the structuring and implementation of mergers and Remuneration Committee acquisitions projects.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Richard Sykes and the other members are Mr Mehmet Dalman, Sir Paul Judge and Mr The Mergers and Acquisitions Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, Kenneth Olisa all of whom are independent non-executive Directors.
The Committees terms of reference are The Company complies with the Code recommendations regarding available on the Companys website.
membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Groups approach to Risk Assessment, Management and Internal Control The main roles of the Remuneration Committee are as follows: The Board is responsible for the Groups approach to Risk to determine and recommend to the Board the broad policy for Management as described in the Risk Management section on the remuneration of Executive Directors and members of the pages 14 to 19. senior management team: to determine the policy and scope for pension rights for each Risk assessment Executive Director: A systematic assessment of the risks which may adversely affect the approve the design of any performance-related pay schemes achievement of the Groups objectives operates throughout the operated by the Group and determine the relevant performance Group.
Management review the Key Business Risk Assessment on a targets as well as approving annual payments made under such regular basis which included a formal review in July 2009.
The risk schemes: assessment was further reviewed by senior management as part of to review the design of any share incentive plans for approval by the process of producing this Annual Report and Accounts.
Reports the Board and shareholders and to determine the performance on Risk Management have been provided to the Audit Committee at targets and the appropriate level of annual awards to be made: each meeting during 2009.
As part of the risk assessment process and the Group has consistently adopted the following approach: to ensure that any compensation payments made in respect of termination of contracts are fair to the individual but do not Management considers risks to the Group under the headings of: reward failure and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully Strategic Objectives these relate to the Groups long-term recognised.
Operational Objectives these relate to the effectiveness and The remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors is a efficiency of the Groups operations, including performance and matter for decision by the full Board.
profitability goals and safeguarding resources against loss.
Compliance Objectives these relate to the adherence of laws During 2009 the Remuneration Committee met nine times.
The and regulations to which Group companies are subject: and Committee met: Financial Objectives these relate to the financial status of the to approve the bonus payments awarded in respect of Group and Group companies and their arrangements for financial performance in 2008: reporting, including the prevention of fraudulent public financial to determine and approve the performance targets for bonus reporting.
arrangements in respect of 2009: and to determine the performance targets for the Long Term Incentive This approach considers the potential impact of each risk and the Plan and to approve the awards made under the Plan in April likelihood of the risk materialising at an inherent level, i. e. before 2009. considering any controls which may be in place to manage or mitigate the risk.
As a result of the changes made at Board level, the Committee also considered a number of issues in relation to remuneration, including Response to key business risks the approval of termination payments and early settlement of LTIP The output of each risk assessment meeting of management is an awards made to Dr Sittard and Miguel Perry.
The Committee also updated list of Key Business Risks which are those risks which have considered and recommended the remuneration packages offered a high overall risk rating and therefore most critically require an to Felix Vulis and Zaure Zaurbekova as new Executive Directors.
appropriate response: this requires control procedures to be implemented to manage or mitigate those risks to a level which is Further details are included in the Directors Remuneration Report, consistent with the Groups overall risk appetite.
which is set out on pages 51 to 55.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 49 The Group Risk Manager coordinates the process of responding to The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather Key Business Risks and reports on these matters to the Chief than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
Each significant Group can provide only reasonable assurance against the risk of material Company has appointed a Business Risk Manager to be the misstatement or loss.
principal point of contact on matters of risk and control within that business.
ENRC Africa will appoint a Business Risk Manager during Key elements of the internal control process are as follows: 2010.
BML, the Groups Joint Venture, has not appointed a Business The Board regularly reviews and updates the Groups strategy Risk Manager at this stage in its development.
and those of its operating companies.
The Board reviews performance through a monthly system of A list of the Key Business Risks arising from the assessment process, reporting, measured against an annual budget, supplemented by and the responses to those risks, is maintained by the Business Risk quarterly business reviews of actual results.
The Group risk matrices are tabled annually for review The Board seeks assurance that effective control is being and adoption by the Audit Committee and the Committee receives maintained and deficiencies addressed through regular reports quarterly reports on the risk management activities.
Evolution of the Groups approach to risk management Risk management and internal control systems in relation to During 2009 the Group has continued to develop its approach to financial reporting Risk Management and Internal Control.
We have further The main features of the Groups systems of Risk Management and strengthened the Groups Risk Management team by the Internal Control in relation to Financial Reporting, other than the appointment of a Risk Manager in ENRC Management KZ to be general principles referred to above, are: responsible for monitoring the roll out of the Risk Management policy across all Kazakhstani and Russian operations.
Control Environment the way in which management communicates principles and policies, delegates authority and The Groups Key Business Risks were further sub-analysed by reports on compliance: management into those risks which were High Manageability, i. e. Risk Management the way in which management identifies the direct action by management is able to significantly reduce the critical risks and decides on the most effective response to those potential impact of the risk arising, and Low Manageability, where risks: management action is usually limited to monitoring external events.
Control Activities the way in which management uses The Audit Committee agreed that management should concentrate preventative and detective controls to minimise the risk of error: on High Manageability risks during 2009 and 2010. and Monitoring the way in which management oversees the above Independent consultants performed an assessment of our activities.
operational risk management procedures for the Kazakhstani and Russian businesses, and during 2010 plants will implement the Control environment recommendations which were raised by this review.
A semi-annual The Groups Code of Conduct has been presented throughout the monitoring of the implementation of these recommendations will be Group to key members of management and is the subject of annual completed by the Groups Risk Management team.
confirmation on compliance from the management of all significant Group companies.
New employees are provided with a copy of the We engaged external consultants to assist us in the production of a code as part of their induction to the Group.
detailed analysis of risks, including documentation of a detailed description of each risk and the development of Risk Action plans The Groups Accounting Methodology Manager AMM is for High Manageability Key Business Risks.
responsible, on the basis of delegated authority from the Chief Financial Officer, for designing and communicating accounting Management also re-designed the Risk Reporting framework, based policies, practices and procedures to all Group companies, working on industry best practice, and this now clearly defines and closely with the Groups Corporate Reporting Group CRG.
The formalises roles and responsibilities for risk reporting within the AMM also provides technical interpretation and advice to members Group.
The Risk Reporting framework will be implemented across of the Groups finance teams.
A Group Finance Manual was the Group during 2010. approved by the Audit Committee in December 2008 and circulated to all the Groups finance teams.
Updates to the manual are issued The plan for further development in 2010 includes: whenever it is necessary.
regular monitoring of the implementation of Risk Action plans: CRG issue a monthly set of instructions and timetable for the the development of Key Risk Indicators to facilitate more effective completion of internal financial reporting forms including the monitoring and analysis of risks which have materialised: requirement to follow up on any issues which were identified during quarterly monitoring of risk assessment: the closure of the previous period.
The accuracy and timeliness of regular reporting to management on the implementation of Risk receipt of those forms is monitored by the Systems Support Action plans: and Manager SSM.
CRG also host a monthly teleconference of Group regular Risk Reporting to the Audit Committee.
finance teams to discuss and resolve financial reporting issues immediately prior to each month-end.
Assurance on the operation of systems of internal control The Board considers risk assessment and internal control to be The consolidation of financial performance and assets and liabilities fundamental to achieving the Groups business objectives and has is performed on a software system which has appropriate access put in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and controls and which is maintained by a Systems Support team who managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, are independent of the teams inputting and reviewing data.
All which is consistent with the Turnbull guidance in the Combined significant movements and unusual items in data which is submitted Code, has been in place during the year under review and has are reviewed by a senior member of CRG.
Key consolidation journals continued up to the date of approval of the Annual Report relating to data submitted by Group companies are reviewed within and Accounts.
CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 50 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued CRG in accordance with their significance.
A reconciliation and The conclusions arising from the 2009 Annual Review of Internal analysis of consolidation journals is reviewed by the Group Financial Control were that: Controller.
Consolidated Profitability and Net Assets are reconciled The Group has adopted a range of policies and procedures which back to original data inputs.
constitute the Groups systems of Internal Control and these policies and procedures are being effectively operated within the Internal financial reports are produced monthly by CRG and the Groups businesses but there needs to be a greater level of Budget and Analysis team B&A and reviewed by senior members consistency within these policies and procedures across the of the Group finance team and then distributed to management and Group: the Board.
The Group needs to adopt a more effective approach by management to the monitoring of compliance with the Groups B&A produce quarterly instructions and a timetable to be followed policies and procedures: and by Group companies in the preparation of quarterly forecasts and During 2010 the Group intends to reinforce the policies and the annual budget.
B&A monitor compliance with the instructions procedures which have already been adopted and to roll out a set and timetable and follow up any cases of non-compliance.
of consistent policies throughout the Group, including nonKazakhstan operations, BML, the Groups Joint Venture, and the Risk management recently acquired businesses.
As part of the Groups overall approach to Risk Management the risks relating to Financial Reporting are identified and ownership of The Audit Committee has reviewed a report from the Chief Financial these risks is taken by the Chief Financial Officer.
A subsequent Risk Officer setting out the contents and findings of the above approach action plan is prepared to ensure that there are adequate controls in which explains the basis on which she has obtained assurance as to place to manage the risks.
the operation of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Control activities Relations with shareholders The Risk action plan for risks relating to Financial Reporting is During 2009 the Group met with a large number of investors designed to identify the control activities which need to take place in in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the United States different parts of the Group to minimise the risk of error in the of America.
Groups internal and external financial reports.
Responsibility for the implementation of these control activities is documented and As part of its investor relations programme, the Group aims to communicated to relevant members of finance teams.
All members provide a high level of transparency and communication to investors of finance teams receive appropriate training, including updates and analysts on a regular and timely basis, through announcements, whenever there are any significant proposed changes in procedures.
The Group seeks to develop a regular dialogue with investors and analysts and to respond to their Monitoring challenges and to understand their sentiments and concerns.
The Senior members of finance teams are delegated responsibility for Group has a comprehensive investor relations website which has up monitoring compliance with the instructions issued by CRG and to date information available to all shareholders and investors.
All B&A and for ensuring that Control Activities are effectively shareholders have the opportunity to attend and raise questions at implemented.
Any cases of non-compliance are identified and the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Group aspires to have an investor relations programme that is Approach to the annual review of internal control ranked highly amongst its peers for its accessibility, responsiveness For 2009 the Group continued to improve the process for reviewing and disclosure.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial the systems of Internal Control and reviewed the existing key Officer aim to meet all major shareholders at least twice a year and, controls which were managing the Groups High Manageability Key with other senior management, to meet with a wide range of Business Risks.
The basis of the review for 2009 included: shareholders and prospective investors in the United Kingdom, An assessment of the results of Internal Audit reviews of High continental Europe, Russia and the United States of America during Manageability Key Business Risks where Internal Audit had the year.
These discussions will focus on the results and businesses performed testing in 2009: and of the Group but will also seek to learn of any concerns amongst Controls over Financial Reporting and Consolidation were investors.
The Group will also seek to meet with sell-side analysts to reviewed in the context of coverage from reviews by external raise the Groups profile and to build the research coverage.
Information on investor relations activity and analysts and brokers As CAMEC was only purchased in November 2009, the Group is in reports are regularly circulated to the Board.
The Chairman and the process of doing further work to assess the control environment non-executive Directors are free to attend investor relations in, and rolling out risk management policies to, the acquired meetings or to request meetings with investors or analysts companies.
This further work is supplemental to the pre-acquisition independent of the Groups management.
due diligence work that was conducted.
The third Annual General Meeting is due to be held on 9 June 2010 For key controls relating to High Manageability Key Business Risks and the Board welcomes the opportunity to answer questions put which were not covered by Internal Audit or external advisors forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
reviews, the Risk Management team performed walkthrough tests to see whether the control is in place and is in compliance with Going concern required policies and procedures.
After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
