Corporate Governanc e The Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate together with the managing director and finance director.
The Governance is part of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services committee is responsible for the approval of acquisitions, divestments, Authority.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors Remuneration capital expenditure and contractual commitments below the level Report on pages 34 to 48 set out how the company has applied the that the board has reserved to itself for decision, and for certain principles laid down by the Code.
operational, administrative and other routine matters.
The committee also regularly reviews and reports to the board on the performance of The company continues substantially to comply with the Code, save the groups businesses.
At least 10 meetings are held each year and for the exceptions disclosed in the directors compliance statement other senior executives frequently attend by invitation.
Nominations committee Directors The nominations committee is responsible for proposing candidates The board and its role for appointment to the board having regard to the balance of Details of directors who served during the year are set out on pages skills and structure of the board and ensuring the appointees have 26 and 27.
During the year the board comprised the chairman, sufficient time available to devote to the role.
The committee managing director, 11 other executive directors and six non-executive meets when required and comprises PM Fallon chairman of the directors.
On December 22 2008 DP Pritchard was appointed a nominations committee, PR Ensor and four non-executive directors: non-executive director, on January 14 2009 RT Lamont retired Sir Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount Rothermere, MWH Morgan and as an executive director on reaching the age of 62.
The committees terms of reference are available on the executive director, died on July 16 2009.
Two of the six non-executive companys website.
directors are independent, one is the founder and ex-chairman of the company, two are directors of DMGT, an intermediate parent The committee met once during the year to recommend to the board company, and one has served on the board for more than the the appointment of DP Pritchard as a non-executive director and recommended term of nine years under the Code.
With effect from the re-election of directors retiring by rotation.
The committee did November 11 2009, B AL-Rehany was appointed to the board as an not find it necessary to use open advertising or an external search executive director.
MJ Carroll has indicated his intention to retire as consultancy for the recruitment of the non-executive director position an executive director at the companys Annual General Meeting on as the company had access to a number of potential candidates January 21 2010. through its own network of contacts.
There are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that Remuneration committee no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The board The remuneration committee meets twice a year and additionally although large does not consider itself to be unwieldy and believes it as required.
It is responsible for determining the contract terms, is beneficial to have representatives from all key areas of the business remuneration and other benefits for executive directors, including at board meetings.
There is a procedure for all directors in the performance related profit share schemes.
The committee also furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, recommends and monitors the level of remuneration for senior at the companys expense.
They also have access to the advice and management and for the rest of the group, including group-wide services of the company secretary.
All directors submit themselves for share option schemes.
The composition of the committee, details re-election at least once every three years.
Newly appointed directors of directors remuneration and interests in share options, together are submitted for election at the first available opportunity after with information on directors service contracts, are set out in the their appointment.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 48.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website.
The board meets every two months and there is frequent contact between meetings.
Board meetings take place in London, New York, Audit committee Montreal and Hong Kong, and in other locations where the group has Details of the members and role of the audit committee are set out operations.
The board has delegated specific aspects of the groups on page 31.
The committees terms of reference are available on the affairs to standing committees, each of which operates within defined companys website.
Details of these are set out below.
However, to ensure its overall control of the groups affairs, the board has reserved Tax and treasury committee certain matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings are held to set Details of the members and role of the tax and treasury committee are and monitor strategy, identify, evaluate and manage material risks, set out in the Directors Report on pages 16 and 17. to review trading performance, ensure adequate funding, examine major acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
Non-executive directors Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate information is The non-executive directors bring both independent views and the communicated to the board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil views of the companys major shareholder to the board.
executive directors during the year, whose biographies can be found on page 27 of the accounts, were: The Viscount Rothermere, Executive committee Sir Patrick Sergeant, JC Botts, JC Gonzalez, MWH Morgan and, with Chaired by the companys chairman, the executive committee also effect from December 22 2008, DP Pritchard.
comprises the divisional directors of the groups main businesses, 28 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC At least once a year the companys chairman meets the non-executive The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan are also executive directors without the executive directors being present.
directors of DMGT, an intermediate parent company.
However, the company is run as a separate, distinct and decentralised subsidiary The board considers JC Gonzalez and DP Pritchard to be independent of DMGT and these directors have no involvement in the day-to-day non-executive directors.
They bring valuable experience and advice to the company but the board does not believe these nonJC Botts has been on the board for more than the recommended term executive directors are able to exert undue influence on decisions of nine years under the Code and the board believes that his length taken by the board, nor does it consider their independence to be of service enhances his role as a non-executive director.
However, due impaired by their positions with DMGT.
However, their relationship to his length of service, JC Botts does not meet the Codes definition with DMGT means they do not meet the Codes definition of of independence.
During the year JC Botts also held options to independence.
subscribe for common stock in Internet Securities, Inc. a subsidiary of the company, which were exercised during the year.
However, the Board and committee meetings number of options held by JC Botts is not material to him or to the Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance of the company.
meeting date and papers covering the points to be discussed are distributed to its members in advance of the meetings.
The following The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding in the table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended company through his beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this by the directors during the year to September 30 2009: he is not considered independent.
Tax & Executive Remuneration Nominations Audit treasury Board committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year 7 11 1 1 3 5 Executive directors PM Fallon - chairman 7 11 1 1 PR Ensor - managing director 7 11 1 5 NF Osborn 6 11 DC Cohen 7 10 CR Brown 6 10 CR Jones - finance director 7 11 5 RT Lamont 1 2 SM Brady 6 7 fide Alfano 7 11 GG Mueller 7 9 MJ Carroll 6 7 CHC Fordham 7 11 JL Wilkinson 7 11 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 4 1 1 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 1 JC Botts 7 1 1 3 JC Gonzalez 6 3 MWH Morgan 7 1 1 DP Pritchard 3 1 Died on July 16 2009 Retired on January 14 2009 Appointed on December 22 2008 and a member of the audit committee since June 8 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 29 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR PERFORMANCE OUR GOVERNANCE Corporate Governanc e continued Board and committee effectiveness y the board seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained During the year the board, through its chairman, assessed its through regular reports from business group management, the performance and that of its committees.
The chairman surveyed each audit committee and various independent monitoring functions: board member and evaluated the strengths and weaknesses of the and board and its members.
In addition, each of the main committees y the board approves the annual forecast after performing a review completed a detailed questionnaire encompassing key areas within of key risk factors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of their mandates.
The results of the assessment were presented and variances and key performance indicators to enable relevant action discussed at a board meeting and it was concluded that the board to be taken and forecasts are updated each quarter.
The board and its committees had been effective throughout the year.
considers longer-term financial projections as part of its regular discussions on the groups strategy.
Communication with shareholders The companys chairman, together with the board, encourages During the year and up to the approval of this annual report and regular dialogue with shareholders.
Meetings are held, both in the UK accounts the board has not identified nor been advised of any failings and US, to discuss annual and interim results and highlight significant or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional shareholders.
a confirmation of necessary actions has not been considered Private shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Annual appropriate.
In line with best practice all shareholders have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which Quality, integrity of people and whistle blowing arrangements the executive directors, non-executive directors and committee chairs The integrity and competence of people is ensured through high are available for questioning.
recruitment standards and a commitment to management and business skills training.
High-quality personnel are an essential part of Internal control and risk management the control environment and the high ethical standards expected are The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and communicated by management and through the employee handbook for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage which is provided to all employees.
The employee handbook also sets rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, out the procedures available to staff to raise, in confidence, possible and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Social responsibility In accordance with principle C. 2 and C. 2.1 of the Combined Code The group is keen to maintain a high level of social responsibility on Corporate Governance, the board has implemented a continuing and has procedures embedded in its internal systems and controls process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks to ensure its social standards are monitored regularly and are not faced by the group.
The group supports and encourages employees who become involved in social projects and examples of these are given The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of in the Directors Report.
internal control and has taken account of material developments which have taken place since September 30 2008.
It has considered Environmental responsibility the major business and financial risks, the control environment and The group does not operate directly in industries where there the results of internal audit.
Steps have been taken to embed internal is the potential for serious industrial pollution.
It does not print control and risk management further into the operations of the products in-house or have any investments in printing works.
It group and to deal with areas of improvement which have come to takes its environmental responsibility seriously and complies with managements and the boards attention.
all relevant environmental laws and regulations in each country in which it operates.
Wherever economically feasible, account is taken Key procedures which the directors have established with a view to of environmental issues when placing contracts with suppliers of providing effective internal control, and which have been in place goods and services and these suppliers are regularly reviewed and throughout the year and up to the date of this report, are as follows: monitored.
For instance, the groups two biggest print contracts are outsourced to companies who have environment management The board of directors systems compliant to the ISO 14001 standard.
The paper used for the y the board normally meets six times a year to consider group groups publications is produced from pulp obtained from sustainable strategy, risk management, financial performance, acquisitions, forests, manufactured under strict, monitored and accountable business development and management issues: environmental standards.
The group is not a heavy user of energy: y the board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a however, it does manage its energy requirements sensibly using lowformal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the energy office equipment where possible and using a common sense board: approach such as switching off equipment, air-conditioning, heating and lights when not required.
y each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs: Carbon footprint y the board divides the groups key risks into six broad categories and The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and General Trust plc reviews and assesses each of these at least annually: group DMGT, participates in a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint 30 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC analysis completed by ICF International.
This exercise has been internal audit reports its findings to management and to the audit undertaken every year since 2006 using the widely recognised GHG committee.
protocol methodology developed by the World Resource Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
The Accountability and audit directors are committed to reducing the groups carbon emissions Audit committee and have embarked upon a comprehensive strategy to manage its The audit committee comprises JC Botts chairman, JC Gonzalez carbon footprint.
The company, as part of the wider DMGT group, independent, JP Williams, the finance director of DMGT and, has committed to reducing its footprint by 10% from the baseline with effect from June 8 2009, DP Pritchard independent.
Three of year of 2007 by the end of 2012. the four members are non-executive directors and JP Williams is a director of DMGT.
The committee meets at least three times each Health and safety financial year.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the interim The group is committed to the health and safety of its employees and report, the annual report and accounts and other related formal communities in which it operates.
The group complies with all local statements before their submission to the board, and reviewing and health and safety regulations and makes use of external health and overseeing controls necessary to ensure the integrity of the financial safety advisers where appropriate.
The UK businesses benefit from information reported to the shareholders.
The audit committee a regular assessment of the working environment by experienced advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on assessors and regular training of all existing and new UK employees in their remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work.
It has set health and safety matters.
and applied a formal policy, which focuses on the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit, the type of nonInvestment appraisal audit work permissible and a diminimus level of fees acceptable.
Any The managing director, finance director and business group non-audit work performed outside this remit is assessed and where managers consider proposals for acquisitions and new businesses.
appropriate approved by the committee.
The committee discusses the Proposals beyond specified limits are put to the board for approval nature, scope and findings of the audit with the external auditors and and are subject to due diligence by the groups finance team and, if considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control necessary, independent advisers.
Capital expenditure is regulated by issues raised by the external auditors.
The audit committee is also strict authorisation controls.
For capital expenditure above specified responsible for monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of internal levels, detailed written proposals must be submitted to the board and audit, and reviews the internal audit programme and receives periodic reviews are carried out to monitor progress against budget.
It reviews the whistle blowing arrangements available to staff.
The audit committees terms of reference are Accounting and computer systems controls and procedures available on the companys website.
Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed and communicated throughout the group.
Particular attention is paid Going concern, debt covenants and liquidity to authorisation levels and segregation of duties.
The groups tax, The results of the groups business activities, together with the factors financing and foreign exchange positions are overseen by the tax likely to affect its future development, performance and financial and treasury committee, which meets at least twice a year.
Controls position are set out in the Directors Report.
and procedures over the security of data and disaster recovery are periodically reviewed and are subject to internal audit.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows and liquidity position are set out in detail in this Annual Report.
The group meets its day-toInternal audit day working capital requirements through its $400 million dedicated The group has an internal audit function which is managed by DMGTs multi-currency borrowing facility with Daily Mail and General Trust internal audit department, working closely with the companys finance plc group.
The facility is divided into four quantums of sterling and director.
Internal audit draws on the services of the groups central US dollar funds with three and five year terms with a total maximum finance teams to assist in completing the audit assignments.
Internal borrowing capacity of $310 million 194 million and 59 million audit aims to provide an independent assessment as to whether respectively.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be effective systems and controls are in place and being operated no more than four times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
to manage significant operating and financial risks.
It also aims to At September 30 2009, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was support management by providing cost effective recommendations 1.99 times and the uncommitted undrawn facility available to the to mitigate risk and control weaknesses identified during the audit group was 81.4 million.
The three year quantums of the facility are process, as well as provide insight into where cost efficiencies and due for renewal in December 2011 and the five year quantums in monetary gains might be made by improving the operations of the December 2013 see note 18 for further details.
Businesses and central departments are selected for an internal audit visit on a risk-focused basis, taking account of the The current economic conditions create uncertainty, particularly over: risks identified as part of the risk management process: the risk and a the level of demand for the groups products: b the exchange rate materiality of each of the groups businesses: the scope and findings between sterling and US dollars and its impact on the translation of of external audit work: and the departments and businesses reviewed US dollar profits and losses from its US-dollar-based businesses and previously and the findings from these reviews.
This approach ensures transactions, including the gains or losses from the groups forward that the internal audit focus is placed on the higher risk areas of the contracts used to partially hedge these: and c the availability of bank group, while ensuring an appropriate breadth of coverage.
DMGTs finance in the foreseeable future.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 31 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR PERFORMANCE OUR GOVERNANCE Corporate Governanc e continued The groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting possible changes in trading performance, show that the group should records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys be able to operate within the level and covenants of its current transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the borrowing facility.
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors fraud and other irregularities.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this Annual Report.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys Directors responsibility statement website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Responsibility statement for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with y the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as a whole: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under y the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of of the business and the position of the company and the the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors that they face.
are required to: By order of the Board y select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: y make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: y state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Richard Ensor followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Director explained in the financial statements: and November 11 2009 y prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Colin Jones Standard 1 requires that directors: Company Secretary November 11 2009 y properly select and apply accounting policies: y present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: y provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and y make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
32 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Statement by the directors on compliance with the Provision A.
4.1 requires that the majority of the nominations Combined Code committee should be comprised of independent non-executive The UK Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance directors.
Although the committee consists of four non-executive and throughout the accounting year with the applicable principles and two executive directors, none of these non-executive directors can be provisions of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance considered independent under the Combined Code.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Save for the exceptions outlined below, the group has complied throughout the financial year Provision A.
4.4 states that the terms and conditions of appointment ended September 30 2009 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of of non-executive directors should be available for inspection.
explained in the Directors Remuneration Report, the non-executive directors do not have service contracts.
3.2 states that half the board, excluding the chairman, should be comprised of non-executive directors determined by the Provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 require the remuneration and audit board to be independent.
During the year the board comprised 19 committees to comprise entirely of independent non-executive directors of whom six are non-executive directors, two of whom directors.
The remuneration committee is comprised of three nonare considered to be independent non-executive directors under executive directors, none of whom can be considered independent the Combined Code.
On January 14 2009, RT Lamont retired as under the Combined Code.
During the year, the audit committee a executive director and on July 16 2009 CR Brown, an executive comprised four members, only three of which were non-executive director, died, hence, at the year end, the board comprises 17 directors of the company including DP Pritchard who was appointed directors of whom two are considered to be independent.
With effect a member of the audit committee on June 8 2009.
Only two of the from November 11 2009, B AL-Rehany was appointed to the board members of the audit committee can be considered independent as an executive director, and Mr MJ Carroll has indicated his intention under the Combined Code.
to retire as an executive director at the companys Annual General Meeting on January 21 2010.
On behalf of the board Contrary to provision A.
3.3, the board has not identified a senior independent non-executive director as the directors are of the opinion that all matters relating to the effective governance of the group must Padraic Fallon be dealt with by the board as a whole.
Chairman November 11 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 33 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR PERFORMANCE OUR GOVERNANCE
