Governance Corporate governance statement As the Combined Code states, boards controlled.
The specific duties of the monetary limits of the delegations.
should set the values and standards board are clearly set out in a formal Responsibility for approval of smaller for a company.
Experians board is schedule of matters reserved to the acquisitions, disposals and other committed to the highest standards of board for decision.
There is a wide transactions has been delegated by corporate governance and believes that range of corporate governance issues the board to its principal operating such standards, which apply equally and items that are specifically reserved subsidiaries.
Approval of capital to Experians directors and employees, for decision by the board.
Matters expenditure and revenue expenditure are critical to business integrity, requiring board approval include: within defined monetary limits has performance and to maintaining also been delegated to the principal The Groups long-term objectives investors trust in Experian.
The Company and commercial strategy.
Secretary ensures that, at each of its The Combined Code on meetings, the board receives reports The annual operating and capital Corporate Governance on the activities of its committees and expenditure budgets and any The Combined Code on Corporate copies of minutes of the meetings of material changes to them.
Governance published by the UK the principal operating subsidiaries to Financial Reporting Council in June monitor the exercise of the delegations.
Acquisitions, disposals and other 2006 sets out guidance on how transactions above delegated limits.
companies should be directed and The board and its committees operate Major changes to the Groups controlled to ensure good governance in line with an agreed work plan.
The practice and is applicable to this capital structure, corporate January meeting focuses on strategy, structure, or any changes to the reporting period.
The Financial the March meeting deals with the Companys listing or its status as a Services Authority requires companies approval of operating budgets for public limited company.
listed in the UK to disclose, in relation the coming financial year and the to Section 1 of the Combined Code, May and November meetings cover Announcements of half-yearly and how they have applied its principles the consideration of the annual preliminary results and interim and whether they have complied financial statements and the halfmanagement statements.
with its provisions throughout the yearly financial report respectively.
This statement sets The Chief Executive Officer and the Dividend policy.
out details of how the Company has Chief Financial Officer provide reports applied the principles and complied at all scheduled board meetings and Treasury policy, including entry into with the provisions of the Combined senior executives below board level are banking facilities, foreign currency Code during the year ended 31 March often invited to make presentations exposure and the use of financial 2009.
Further information on the to the board and participate in certain derivatives.
Combined Code can be found on the aspects of the strategy and budget Shareholder documentation.
Financial Reporting Councils website reviews.
The full schedule of matters reserved to The directors the board is available from the Company Statement of compliance The board currently comprises the Secretary on request and on the It is the boards view that the Company Chairman, the Chief Executive Experian website www.
has been compliant with the provisions Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, set down in Section 1 of the Combined the President and Chief Operating One of the Groups key internal Code throughout the year ended 31 March Officer and six independent nongovernance documents is the Global 2009. executive directors.
It is the current Delegated Authorities Matrix.
This intention of the board to appoint an draws together the schedule of matters The board additional non-executive director at an reserved to the board, the terms of The directors have responsibility to the appropriate time.
Each non-executive reference for the board committees as Companys shareholders for ensuring director serves for a fixed term not well as authority levels for the Groups that the Company is appropriately exceeding three years that may be principal operating subsidiaries, managed and that it achieves its renewed by mutual agreement.
Subject directors and senior executives.
The board meets regularly to the board being satisfied with a those matters not specifically reserved to determine the Companys strategic directors performance, independence to the board, the Matrix prescribes direction, review the Companys and commitment, each non-executive the cascade of authorities delegated operating and financial performance director may normally serve a throughout the Group by respective and oversee that the Company is maximum of three terms of three years.
Group companies, together with the adequately resourced and effectively 50 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance statement 2 7 8 43 73 148 Each director is required to have been Officers primary role is the running Company Secretary elected by shareholders at the annual of the Companys businesses and the All directors have access to the general meeting following his her development and implementation of advice and services of the Company appointment by the board.
The Chairmans commitment Secretary, whose appointment and each director must be re-elected to the Company is two to three days removal may be effected only with at least once every three years.
The per week and his main interests board approval.
He is responsible boards policy is to appoint and retain outside the Company are set out in for ensuring board procedures are non-executive directors who can apply his biographical details.
The board followed and for advising the board, their wider knowledge and experiences believes that the Chairman continues through the Chairman, on governance to their understanding of the Group.
to be able to carry out his duties and matters.
Experians non-executive directors responsibilities effectively for the are experienced and influential Company.
Board meetings and individuals from a range of industries directors attendance and countries and, together, they bring Senior Independent Director The Company requires all directors an objective viewpoint and range of Under the Combined Code the board to devote sufficient time to the work experience to the Company which appoints one of the non-executive of the board and, wherever possible, ensures that no individual or group directors to act as senior independent to attend the meetings of the board of individuals is able to dominate the director.
The main responsibility of and the committees on which they boards decision-making.
In addition to the Senior Independent Director serve.
In addition to the annual general their strengths of experience, diversity is to be available to shareholders meeting which all directors attended, and an international perspective, the should they have concerns that they the board had six scheduled and one board also seeks to comply with the have been unable to resolve through ad-hoc meeting during the year ended requirements of the Combined Code normal channels, or when such 31 March 2009.
For each scheduled on the independence of non-executive channels would be inappropriate.
board meeting, the directors meet over directors.
The Senior Independent Director either a two or three day period and is also responsible for leading the board committee meetings are also The Chairman and the boards discussion on the Chairmans held during the time they are together.
Chief Executive Officer performance and the appointment of Structuring the board and committee The respective roles of the Chairman a new chairman, when appropriate.
meetings in this way enhances the and Chief Executive Officer are clearly Sir Alan Rudge served as Senior effectiveness of the board and its established, set out in writing and Independent Director throughout the committees: for details of board agreed by the board.
The Chairmans year ended 31 March 2009. and committee meetings and their priority is the management of the attendance by board members please board and the Chief Executive see the table below.
Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the board and its committees Nomination Remuneration Audit Board committee committee committee John Peace 7 7 2 2 n a n a Don Robert 7 7 2 2 n a n a Paul Brooks 7 7 n a n a n a Fabiola Arredondo 5 7 1 2 3 4 3 4 Laurence Danon 7 7 2 2 3 4 3 4 Roger Davis 6 7 2 2 4 4 4 4 Sean FitzPatrick 5 5 n a 2 2 3 3 Alan Jebson 7 7 2 2 4 4 4 4 Sir Alan Rudge 6 7 2 2 4 4 4 4 David Tyler 7 7 2 2 4 4 4 4 References throughout this corporate governance statement including the above table to board and board committee meetings held during the year under review do not include meetings held in April 2008, which were rescheduled from March 2008 due to the timing of Easter in 2008.
There were six scheduled meetings and one ad-hoc meeting held during the year under review.
Sean FitzPatrick resigned as a director on 18 December 2008.
Chris Callero was appointed as a director on 1 April 2009.
Experian Annual Report 2009 51 Governance Corporate governance statement continued In January and March 2009, the The principal board committees also Information flow Chairman and the non-executive undertook an evaluation exercise Directors are fully briefed in advance directors met as a group without the which was similar in structure to the of board and committee meetings executive directors present.
The feedback from on all matters to be discussed.
The end of the January 2009 meeting, the those evaluations was discussed at the Chairman, with the assistance of the Chairman withdrew so that, under the respective meetings of the principal Company Secretary, ensures that leadership of the Senior Independent committees.
directors are supplied in a timely Director, the non-executive directors manner with information in a form had the opportunity to discuss any The performance of the Chairman was and of a quality to ensure they are appropriate issues and appraise the also reviewed and took into account the fully briefed and to enable the board Chairmans performance, taking views of both the executive and nonto discharge its duties effectively.
account of the views expressed by executive directors.
The Chairmans Additional information is also provided the executive directors.
Going forward, evaluation was managed by the Senior to directors on a monthly basis.
the Chairman and the non-executive Independent Director who provided directors intend to normally meet as a feedback to the Chairman.
As part of Board and committee group without the executive directors the Chairmans evaluation, the noneffectiveness present at the end of each scheduled executive directors met separately The effectiveness of the board and board meeting.
under the chairmanship of the Senior its committees is vital to the success Independent Director.
of the Group and the Company Independence undertakes an evaluation each year The Combined Code requires that The executive directors were evaluated in order to assess how well the board, at least half the board, excluding in respect of their duties through its committees, the directors and the the Chairman, should comprise a separate process whereby the Chairman are performing.
independent non-executive directors Chairman assessed all of the directors, as determined by the board.
It is the having obtained feedback from the Following the independent review last boards view that an independent other directors.
year, this years board and committee non-executive director needs to be reviews were conducted in-house able to present an objective, rigorous Following the reviews, the directors and were led by the Chairman with the and constructive challenge to have concluded that the board and support of the Company Secretary.
management, drawing on his her wider its committees operate effectively.
All directors completed an online experiences to question assumptions Additionally, the Chairman has questionnaire evaluating board and viewpoints.
To be effective, an concluded that each director processes, effectiveness and where independent director needs to acquire contributes effectively and improvements may be considered.
a sound understanding of the industry demonstrates full commitment to The questionnaire contained a range and the Group so as to be able to his her duties.
of questions and included free text evaluate properly the information boxes for additional comments.
Having considered the report on the findings was presented matter carefully, the board is of the to the board and the board and the opinion that all of the current nonnomination committee discussed the executive directors are independent feedback received which included and free from any relationship or suggestions relating to board circumstances that could affect, or composition and induction and appear to affect, their independent training.
Positive comments were made judgement.
Accordingly, over half of the around the progress that the board directors, excluding the Chairman, are has made since the Companys listing considered independent non-executive in October 2006, the effectiveness of directors.
the board and the relationship that exists between the board and senior Re-election management.
Each of the directors being proposed for re-election at the 2009 annual general meeting has been subject to a performance evaluation during the year ended 31 March 2009.
52 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance statement 2 7 8 43 73 148 Induction and training Conflicts of interest Following appointment, directors The articles of association of the receive an induction programme, Company were amended at the 2008 which includes business presentations annual general meeting to give the from senior management, site visits board the power to authorise conflicts, and receipt of information about or potential conflicts, of interest.
such matters as the operating The authorisation procedure that procedures and activities of the the board adopted involved the issue Group, the governance structure of of a questionnaire by the Company the Group, information on the duties Secretary asking directors to identify and responsibilities of directors any conflicts or potential conflicts, and information on dealing in the which were considered by the board Companys shares.
The induction at the next meeting.
Directors are process is continued throughout the also required to advise the Company directors terms of office.
Secretary of any actual or potential conflicts as soon as they arise, so that The board believes strongly in the they can be considered by the board development of all Group employees at the next available opportunity.
It is and directors and it is a requirement the boards view that the Companys of each directors appointment that procedures for ensuring that the they commit to continue acquiring boards powers of authorisation of knowledge about the business.
conflicts are operating effectively and that the procedures have been To achieve this, directors are kept followed.
briefed on Experians business, the environment in which it operates and Board committees other matters throughout their period The principal board committees of office.
The form that development are the nomination committee, the takes is subject to the requirements of remuneration committee and the audit the directors.
During the year, directors committee.
The committees operate received a number of induction within defined terms of reference and training sessions ranging from which cover the authority delegated to an external presentation on risk them by the board.
These can be found management to internal presentations on the Experian website on the finance function, the finance www.
com and are available systems of the Group, financial from the Company Secretary upon reporting and a number of the Groups request.
The Company Secretary is businesses.
The board made a visit secretary to all three committees.
to the Groups business in Brazil and met and received presentations from Throughout the year the chairman of management and employees.
Further each committee provided the board visits to Group business locations are with a report of the issues considered included in the boards future meeting at the meetings of the committees and programme.
the minutes of the committee meetings were circulated to the board.
Reports There is a procedure in place whereby of the activities of each of the principal directors may, in the performance board committees are set out on the of their duties, seek independent following pages.
professional advice at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
No director obtained any such independent professional advice during the year ended 31 March 2009.
Experian Annual Report 2009 53 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Nomination committee report to ensure that the board maintains In accordance with the articles of its balance of skills, knowledge and association of the Company, directors experience.
are subject to election at the first annual general meeting following their Governance appointment, and thereafter they must The nomination committee was in place seek re-election no more than three throughout the year ended 31 March years from the date they were last 2009.
Six members of the committee are elected or re-elected.
considered independent non-executive directors in accordance with provision During the year, the committee John Peace, chairman of nomination committee A.
recommended to the board the appointment of Chris Callero as an Members The Group Human Resources Director executive director.
The board approved The nomination committee comprised and the Global Talent Director attend the recommendation and Mr Callero the following directors during the year: certain committee meetings by was appointed as a director on 1 April invitation.
John Peace Chairman Don Robert Activities Remuneration committee report Fabiola Arredondo At its meetings during the year, the Laurence Danon committee discussed the structure, Roger Davis size and composition of the board Sean FitzPatrick resigned on 18 and its committees taking into December 2008 account views expressed in the board Alan Jebson and committee reviews during the Sir Alan Rudge year, reviewed the time commitment David Tyler required from the non-executive except in respect of any matter concerning directors and reviewed its own succession to the chairmanship of the performance and terms of reference.
Roger Davis, chairman of remuneration committee Company when the Senior Independent Director The committee also discussed takes the chair.
succession planning for the Chairman Members and the Chief Executive Officer and The remuneration committee Meetings received a report on the Experian comprised the following non-executive The committee met twice during the Global Employee Survey which was directors during the year: year ended 31 March 2009. carried out in January 2009.
Roger Davis Chairman Primary roles During the year, the committee was Fabiola Arredondo To ensure that appropriate procedures actively engaged in orderly succession Laurence Danon are in place for the nomination, planning for the senior management, Sean FitzPatrick resigned on 18 selection, training and evaluation of keeping resources under review, and December 2008 directors.
evaluating succession plans for all Alan Jebson senior positions, with a focus on Sir Alan Rudge To ensure that adequate succession the quality of existing management David Tyler plans are in place.
resource and its depth, bearing in mind who is likely to come through to fill Meetings To review the Companys board positions in the next few years.
The committee met four times during structure, size, composition and the year ended 31 March 2009. succession needs, at all times keeping There is an established process used under consideration the balance of to appoint new non-executive directors Primary roles membership and the required balance of the Company which begins with To recommend to the board Experians of skills, knowledge and experience of the nomination committee agreeing senior management remuneration the board.
the scope of the role and engaging a policy and that of the Chairman.
specialist search company to identify To identify and nominate for the potential directors.
The committee To determine individual remuneration boards approval suitable candidates reviews the short list submitted by packages for executive directors and to fill vacancies for non-executive the search company and interviews certain senior executives.
and, with the assistance of the Chief prospective candidates who are, if Executive Officer, executive directors, thought suitable, recommended to the To communicate with shareholders on such appointments to be made on board, which makes the appointment.
merit and against objective criteria 54 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance statement 2 7 8 43 73 148 To review and recommend to the board Audit committee report Governance the design of the Groups short and The audit committee was in place long-term incentives.
throughout the year ended 31 March 2009.
The committee is chaired by To oversee the Groups executive Alan Jebson and all of its members pension arrangements.
are considered independent nonexecutive directors in accordance Governance with provision C. 3.1 of the Combined The remuneration committee was in Code.
The Chairman and the executive place throughout the year ended 31 directors attend committee meetings March 2009.
The committee is chaired Alan Jebson, chairman of audit committee by invitation.
Other regular attendees by Roger Davis and all of its members include the Global Executive Vice are considered independent nonMembers President Legal and Regulatory Risk, executive directors in accordance The audit committee comprised the the Head of Global Internal Audit and with provision B.
2.1 of the Combined following non-executive directors the external auditors.
The Companys Chairman during the year: the committee meets with the external and Chief Executive Officer attend auditors and internal audit executives committee meetings by invitation.
They Alan Jebson Chairman without management present.
do not attend when their individual Fabiola Arredondo remuneration is discussed and no Laurence Danon The board is satisfied that at least director is involved in deciding his own Roger Davis one member of the audit committee remuneration.
Other regular attendees Sean FitzPatrick resigned on 18 has recent and relevant financial include the Group Human Resources December 2008 experience and is confident that the Director and the Global Head of Sir Alan Rudge collective international business Reward.
All members of the committee David Tyler experience of the committee members were provided with an induction in enables them to act as an effective the role of the committee and the Meetings committee.
The committee has access operation of its terms of reference on The committee met four times during to the financial expertise of the Group first appointment.
the year ended 31 March 2009, with and its auditors and the chairman meetings held to coincide with key of the audit committee is in regular Activities dates within the financial reporting and contact with key members of senior At its meetings during the year, the audit cycle.
activities of the committee included the review and approval of a number Primary roles Activities of proposed changes to the structure To monitor the integrity of the financial The activities of the audit committee of the Companys long-term incentive statements.
during the year ended 31 March 2009 plans, a review of the Chairmans fee, included the following: salary reviews of the Chief Executive To review the effectiveness of the Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the system of internal control including the Financial reports: The committee President and Chief Operating Officer risk management systems.
reviewed all financial reports before and a number of senior executives, a recommending their publication to the review of pension matters, initiation To review the effectiveness of the audit board.
of the invitation to employees to process and the independence and participate in the 2008 sharesave objectivity of the external auditors.
Internal controls and risk scheme and a review of its own management: During the year, the performance and terms of reference.
To monitor and review the effectiveness committee reviewed a variety of of the internal audit function.
reports on risk, including Material Risk The report on directors remuneration Reports, Material Litigation Reports sets out the way in which the Company To develop and implement policy on and Information Security Reports.
has applied corporate governance non-audit services to be provided by principles to directors remuneration.
External auditors: The lead audit partner from  To approve the remuneration and terms LLP attends all meetings of of engagement of the external auditors the audit committee.
Other and make recommendations in relation  staff are to their re-appointment.
invited to attend meetings where their particular expertise can be utilised.
The performance of the external Experian Annual Report 2009 55 Governance Corporate governance statement continued auditors is evaluated by the audit accounting records and financial Fraud and whistleblowing: The audit committee each year, with a particular statements that will ultimately be committee receives an annual report focus this year on the robustness of subject to external audit: management from internal audit on instances of the audit including independence and of or significant involvement in internal actual or potential fraud, and concerns quality control, quality of delivery audit services: any work that could relating to the financial accounting and the quality of people and service.
compromise the independence of of the Company.
During the year, The audit committee determined that the external auditors: and any other progress was also made to ensure there was nothing to indicate that work that is prohibited by UK ethical continued publicity for the fraud and  LLP had not guidance.
carried out an effective audit of the financial statements for the year ended The policy includes financial limits Performance evaluation: The 31 March 2008. above which the chairman of the audit committee conducts a yearly committee must pre-approve any evaluation of its performance.
For Details of fees paid to the external proposed non-audit services.
The audit 2008, the review was coordinated by auditors for the year are set out in note committee receives half-yearly reports the Company Secretary on behalf of 6 to the Group financial statements.
containing details of assignments and the audit committee chairman using related fees carried out by the external an online software tool.
The results of  provide auditors in addition to their normal work.
the evaluation were discussed at the a range of services to Experian September 2008 committee meeting.
including non-audit services and The Companys policy has recently An area for future focus identified a policy has been adopted by the been amended to cap the payment, was the provision of further training Company in relation to the provision of going forward, of non-audit fees to the opportunities for committee members such services by the external auditors Companys auditors at 100% of fees for and a plan has been put in place to and can be summarised as follows.
audit and assurance services, except in address this issue.
Provided that the provision of such Internal controls and services does not conflict with The audit committee has considered risk management the external auditors statutory the evaluation of the external auditors, The board acknowledges that it is responsibilities and ethical guidance, the proposed fee structure and the responsible for the Groups system the following types of services may be audit engagement terms for 2009 and of internal control and for reviewing assigned to the external auditors: is satisfied that the performance, its effectiveness.
Such a system contribution and commitment of is designed to manage rather than Further assurance services: where  LLP are eliminate the risk of failure to the external auditors deep knowledge such that their re-appointment is achieve business objectives and of the Groups affairs means that merited.
Accordingly, the committee can provide reasonable, but not they may be best placed to carry out has recommended to the board that the absolute, assurance against material such work.
This may include, but is not re-appointment of the external auditors misstatement or loss.
restricted to, shareholder and other be proposed to shareholders at the circulars, regulatory reports and work 2009 annual general meeting.
The board confirms that there is in connection with acquisitions and an ongoing process for identifying, divestments.
Internal audit: At each committee evaluating and managing the meeting, the Head of Global Internal significant risks faced by the Group, Taxation services: where the external Audit presents an internal audit report, including those risks relating to social, auditors knowledge of the Groups which includes details of any issues ethical and environmental matters.
affairs may provide significant requiring the attention of the audit This process was in place throughout advantages which other parties would committee, an update on the work the year under review and up to the not have.
Where this is not the case, being performed by internal audit date of approval of the annual report the work is put out to tender.
and details of the planned internal and meets the requirements of the audit work programme.
This year, the Combined Code.
For certain joint General: in other circumstances, the exercise to monitor and review the arrangements, the board places external auditors may provide services effectiveness of the internal audit reliance upon the systems of internal provided that proposed assignments function was overseen by Experians control operating within the partners are put out to tender and decisions to Group Corporate Secretariat, on behalf infrastructure and the obligations award work are taken on the basis of of the audit committee, to enable upon partners boards relating to the demonstrable competence and cost the committee to fulfil its Combined effectiveness of their own systems.
However, the external Code review obligation.
The review In the boards view, the information auditors are specifically prohibited concluded that the internal audit it received was sufficient to enable from performing work related to function is effective and adds value to it to review the effectiveness of the the business.
56 Experian Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance statement 2 7 8 43 73 148 Groups system of internal control in Senior management makes Information and communication accordance with the Internal Control presentations on risk to the audit The Group has a comprehensive Revised Guidance for Directors committee, which reports regularly system of budgetary control, contained in the Combined Code.
to the board on the risks facing the including monthly performance The audit committee has kept under Groups business.
reviews for each major business.
review the effectiveness of this system These reviews are at a detailed level The audit committee has delegated of internal control and has reported within each region and at a high responsibility from the board for regularly to the board.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and On a monthly basis, the achievement The board reviews annually the receives an annual report on the of business objectives, both effectiveness of the key procedures controls over these risks.
This financial and non-financial, which have been established to provide includes risks arising from social, is assessed using a range of internal control.
These indicators are regularly reviewed to The key procedures, which operate The Group has in place a number of ensure that they remain relevant and throughout the year, are as follows: strategic project committees, whose reliable.
reviews are considered an essential Risk assessment part of the delegated authorities The Group has whistleblowing The Group sets out its objectives process.
These committees have procedures in place for employees clearly as part of its planning established processes, which to report suspected improprieties.
include risk assessment as an These objectives are incorporated Monitoring integral component.
as part of the planning cycle and A range of procedures is are supported by the use of both The Group has in place a full-time used to monitor the effective financial and non-financial key Global Enterprise Risk Manager.
application of internal control in performance indicators.
the Group, including management Control environment and assurance, through the ongoing Risks are methodically anticipated, control activities risk management process, and identified, assessed and The Group has established independent assurance, through appropriately mitigated as part of an procedures and detailed matrices internal audit reviews and reviews enterprise-wide risk management for delegated authority which ensure by specialist third parties.
process operating throughout that decisions that are significant, the Group on an ongoing basis either because of their value or the The internal audit departments and headed by an executive risk inherent degree of risk, are taken at responsibilities include reporting management committee ERMC, an appropriate level.
to the audit committee on the supported by regional risk effectiveness of internal control management committees RRMC.
The Group has implemented systems, focusing on those areas appropriate strategies to deal with considered to be of greatest risk to The ERMC has responsibility each significant risk that has been the Group.
for oversight of the Groups risk identified.
These strategies include management process and monitors internal controls, insurance and Follow-up processes are used to and evaluates the Groups global specialised treasury instruments.
ensure appropriate response to risk profile.
Responsibility for changes and developments in risks evaluation and mitigation of The Group sets out principles, and the control environment.
regional risks falls to the RRMC, policies and standards to be to which Experians business units adhered to throughout its business.
submit reports on a quarterly basis, These include risk identification, detailing identified risks, associated management and reporting mitigation strategies and the status standards, ethical principles and of implemented action steps.
practice, accounting policies, treasury policy, information security policy and policy on fraud and whistleblowing.
Experian Annual Report 2009 57 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Company has taken advantage by a poll.
Shareholders also have the Engagement with shareholders of the provisions allowing opportunity to send in questions prior and others communications to be made to the annual general meeting.
The Company places a high degree electronically to shareholders of importance on maintaining good where they have not requested In line with the Combined Code, relationships and communications hard copy documentation.
As a details of proxy voting by shareholders, with institutional investors, private result the Companys website has including votes withheld, are made investors and others and makes every become a very important method of available on request and are placed on effort to ensure that shareholders are communication with shareholders.
the Companys website kept informed of significant Company The website provides shareholders www.
and potential investors with meeting.
At the meeting, the Company information about the Company, complies with the Combined Code There is an ongoing programme of including annual and half-yearly as it relates to voting, the separation dialogue and meetings between the reports, recent announcements, share of resolutions and the attendance of executive directors and institutional price information, and information committee chairmen.
All directors were investors and analysts.
At these on corporate responsibility and present during the 2008 annual general meetings, a wide range of relevant governance matters.
All material meeting and met with shareholders issues including strategy, financial information reported via a regulatory on an informal basis before the main performance, management and news service is simultaneously business of the meeting.
In 2008, voting governance are discussed within the published on the Companys website levels at the annual general meeting constraints of the information already affording all shareholders full access showed an increase to 56% of the made public.
The announcement of to Company announcements.
issued share capital of the Company, interim management statements, compared with 54% in 2007. trading updates, half-year and annual The board notes that Section 2 results also provide opportunities for of the Combined Code seeks to the Company to answer questions encourage more active participation from analysts covering a wide range by institutional shareholders, of topics.
During the year, Experians including entering into a dialogue with investor relations team arranged companies and making considered a number of visits for investors to use of their votes principles which Experian operations, including in the the Company supports.
Annual general meeting To assist members of the board to The annual general meeting is gain an understanding of the views an important event in Experians of institutional shareholders, at each corporate calendar and provides a of its meetings the board receives valuable opportunity for the board to an investor relations and media communicate with private investors.
report, which covers a wide range of All directors, including the chairmen matters including a commentary on of the audit, remuneration and the perception of the Company and nomination committees, attend the views expressed by the investment meeting.
community, media reports, share price performance and analysis.
Experians 2009 annual general meeting will take place on Wednesday The board is equally interested in the 15 July 2009 and shareholders are concerns of private shareholders and, encouraged to attend the meeting on its behalf, the Company Secretary and use the opportunity to ask oversees communication with these questions.
It is the practice of the size and geographical diversity Company to issue a Shareholder of the Companys shareholder Questions card with the annual base, attendance may not always general meeting documentation be practical and shareholders are to enable shareholders to put encouraged to use proxy voting on the relevant questions to the Company.
Every vote Shareholders are also able to put cast, whether in person or by proxy, is questions to the Company via counted, because votes on all matters its website.
except procedural issues are taken 58 Experian Annual Report 2009
