Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 42 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report business issues.
Major project approvals, contract awards and Introduction key policies and procedures require the approval of the Board.
The Board continues to be committed to good corporate governance practices, in its management of the affairs of the The Board is supported by the Executive Committee which Group and in its accountability to shareholders.
As detailed in this meets approximately monthly.
All of the information that is report, the Directors Report and the reports of the Audit, submitted to the Board by management is reviewed and Nominations and Remuneration Committees, the Group has approved by the Executive Committee.
taken action to institute an effective corporate governance framework by establishing Board committees, internal procedures Directors receive briefing notes and reports for their consideration and Group policies which are critical for the proper management in advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the of the Group and good governance of an international business.
Groups operations to ensure that they remain briefed on the As an English incorporated company with a primary listing on the latest developments and are able to make fully informed London Stock Exchange the Company is subject to the decisions.
These notes and reports take into account the factors Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors duty the Combined Code.
The Combined Code is available from the to promote the success of the Company, which are considered Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
This report by the Executive Committee when making any proposals and outlines the steps taken to achieve compliance with the recommendations to the Board.
Decisions made by the Board Combined Code.
The Board and management of the Group are set within the framework of the Directors statutory duty to believe in conducting their affairs in a fair and transparent manner promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its and in maintaining high ethical standards in their dealings with all members as a whole.
A procedure is in place to deal with Directors conflicts of interest During the year the Board was strengthened by the appointment and related party disclosures.
This procedure is in line with of two additional Non-executive Directors, Marek Jelinek and published guidance, the Companys Articles of Association and Mike Salamon, following the acquisition of shares representing the provisions in section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 on just under 25% of the voting rights of Ferrexpo plc by a whollyconflicts of interest.
Schedules of a Directors actual or potential owned subsidiary of RPG Industries SE.
conflicts and related party transactions have been compiled based on disclosures made by the Director.
These are updated Statement of compliance and reviewed on a regular basis by the Executive Committee.
During the year to 31 December 2009 the Company complied Any changes to the schedules are noted and minuted at the with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
beginning of each Board meeting.
The Committee of Independent Directors has delegated authority to authorise The Combined Code establishes principles of good governance conflicts of interest on behalf of the Board.
This procedure in four areas: Directors, Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, operates effectively, and the Group undertakes to follow and Relations with Shareholders.
The following three sections emerging best practice in this area.
explain how these principles were applied, with the exception of those relating to Directors remuneration a detailed report on All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board Report on pages 48 to 55. procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
All Directors may take independent The Groups auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement professional advice at the expense of the Group in the which it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, all Directors are Financial Services Authority.
advised of their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a public listed company.
Directors The Board Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have The Board is composed of a Non-executive Chairman: are recorded in the appropriate committee or Board minutes.
Michael Abrahams: two Executive Directors: Kostyantin Zhevago, Chief Executive Officer, and Chris Mawe, Chief Financial Officer: and six Non-executive Directors.
Oliver Baring continues as the The Board met five times during the reporting period.
The other Non-executive Directors by Directors at Board meetings and Board committee meetings are Lucio Genovese, Wolfram Kuoni, Ihor Mitiukov, Marek Jelinek is shown below.
All Board meetings are held in Switzerland.
Messrs Jelinek and Salamon joined the Board on 27 March 2009.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer CEO and Senior Independent Director Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report The roles of the Chairman and CEO are held by different are set out on pages 8 and 9 together with details of their individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman membership of Board committees.
Brief details of the roles of the and CEO has been clearly established in writing and agreed by Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior the Board.
Independent Director are set out below.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and ensuring its effectiveness, setting its agenda and ensuring policies, providing effective leadership and control required for a effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman also public company and for approving the Group strategy, budgets, ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the business plans and major capital expenditure.
The Board has a Executive and Non-executive Directors.
From time to time the formal schedule of matters which sets out those matters Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Directors requiring Board approval and specifically reserved to it for without the Executive Directors present.
It also monitors financial performance and critical Corporate Governance Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 43 The Board has established a Committee of Independent The Chairmans other current responsibilities are set out in the Directors to consider and, if appropriate, approve related party biographical notes on pages 8 and 9.
There has been no transactions and conflicts of interests whether in relation to increase in those commitments during the reporting period.
Mr Zhevago or any other Director, and to consider any matters referred to it concerning the operation of the The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive Relationship Agreement.
team, to develop proposals for the Board to consider, and to oversee and implement Board-approved actions.
Details of Appointments to the Board and re-election Mr Zhevagos other appointments are set out in the biographical Under its terms of reference the Nominations Committee is notes on pages 8 and 9. responsible for leading the process for appointments to the Board.
The process for election and re-election of Directors The Senior Independent Director, Oliver Baring, in conjunction under the Companys Articles of Association is set out in the with the other independent Non-executive Directors, assists in Directors Report on pages 56 to 59. communications with shareholders concerning corporate governance matters if that is required.
He also chairs the Information and professional development Nominations Committee and the Committee of Independent Professional development and training are provided in a number Directors.
At least once a year, the Senior Independent Director of ways including updates on changes and proposed changes in meets the Non-executive Directors, without the Chairman laws and regulations affecting the Group, and site visits to ensure present, to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
Directors are familiar with the Groups operations.
During the year the Board received a briefing on the implications of the Board balance and independence Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 and, as in The Board believes that its current membership of two Executive previous years, spent two days visiting the site in Ukraine.
Directors, with a Non-executive Chairman and six Non-executive Directors, four of whom are deemed by the Board to be Appropriate induction is provided to a Director on appointment independent, is of an appropriate size and structure to manage taking into consideration the individual qualifications and the Group in an effective and successful manner.
It also experience of the Director.
considers that no single Director can influence or dominate decision making.
The Relationship Agreement with Kostyantin Performance evaluation Zhevago specifically deals with decision making.
More details are A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit and given below.
Remuneration Committees has been conducted by the chairmen of these bodies.
All Directors and committee members The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on completed a questionnaire and the results have been analysed independence of Non-executive Directors under the Combined and discussed by those concerned.
The conclusion of the Code.
In the opinion of the Board, all the continuing evaluation process was that the Board as a whole and its Non-executive Directors bring independence of judgement and committees had functioned effectively during the year.
The mix of character to the Board and to the Board committees on which skills and experience on the Board was felt to be appropriate.
The Board considers that, with the exception of Messrs The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-executive Jelinek and Salamon who represent a significant shareholder, all Directors have evaluated, and will continue to monitor, the of the Non-executive Directors as at the date of this report are performance of the Chairman.
independent of the Group within the terms of provision A.
Board committees The Board has a number of committees consisting of certain As part of the annual process of performance evaluation see Directors, and in the case of the Executive Committee and below the Board has reviewed the amount of time needed by the Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility CSR Committee, Non-executive Directors to perform their duties, and has certain senior managers, to which specific responsibilities have recognised that Lucio Genovese and Wolfram Kuoni have been delegated and for which written terms of reference have needed, and will continue to need, to devote more time to their been agreed.
These terms of reference are available for duties as Non-executive Directors of Ferrexpo AG than had been inspection on the Groups website at www.
expected at the time of their appointment.
The Board therefore decided to increase their remuneration with effect from 1 January Membership of the various committees, including the Chairman 2009 as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55. of each committee, is shown below.
In reaching this decision the Board also concluded, in the light of the supervisory and non-executive nature of their duties as The Board periodically reviews the membership of its committees directors of Ferrexpo AG, that both Mr Genovese and Mr Kuoni to ensure that committee membership is refreshed.
The Group remain independent in character and judgement, as defined by provides the committees with sufficient resources to undertake provision A.
their duties, including access to the Company Secretary.
Mr Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust which owns The table of attendance of members of the Board and its 100% of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the major shareholder in the principal committees at meetings during the financial period Group.
Consequently he and Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. have entered together with a summary of the terms of reference is set on into a Relationship Agreement with the Company to ensure that page 44. the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently, that transactions and relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. and Mr Zhevago are at arms length and on normal commercial terms, and that there shall be at all times a majority of Directors independent of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. and Mr Zhevago on the Board the Relationship Agreement.
com 44 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Five Board meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Board members record Michael Abrahams Non-executive Chairman 5 5 Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Executive Officer 5 5 Chris Mawe Chief Financial Officer 5 5 Oliver Baring Senior Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Lucio Genovese Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Wolfram Kuoni Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Ihor Mitiukov Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 1 Marek Jelinek Non-executive Director 2 3 1 Mike Salamon Non-executive Director 3 3 1 Joined the Board on 27 March 2009.
The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, management, governance and control issues.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the Companies Act 2006, FSA Listing Rules and the Combined Code.
It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Board is supported by the Executive Committee which meets approximately monthly.
All of the information that is submitted to the Board by management is reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee.
Audit Committee Four Audit Committee meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Wolfram Kuoni Chairman 4 4 Lucio Genovese 4 4 Ihor Mitiukov 3 4 Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year at the most appropriate times in the reporting and audit process.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and interim reports, interim management statements, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing internal controls and risk management systems, whistleblowing procedures and internal audit processes, and oversees the relationship with the external auditors.
Remuneration Committee Five Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Lucio Genovese Chairman 5 5 Michael Abrahams 5 5 Ihor Mitiukov 4 5 Oliver Baring 4 5 The Remuneration Committee meets as required and is responsible for reviewing and approving all aspects of remuneration for the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Further details concerning the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55.
Nominations Committee One Nominations Committee meeting was held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Oliver Baring Chairman 1 1 Michael Abrahams 1 1 Wolfram Kuoni 1 1 Ihor Mitiukov 1 1 Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 Corporate Governance Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 45 Nominations Committee Report The Nominations Committee meets as required.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill vacancies and make recommendations to the Board on Board composition and balance.
The Nominations Committee consults regularly with the Board when filling vacancies.
The Executive Directors and Chairman also assist in identifying the scope and required skills for the vacant role.
During the year a review of the Non-executive Directors time commitments was carried out by the Board, with results that are described above under Board balance and independence.
Succession planning was reviewed by the Nominations Committee in March 2010.
Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee One Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee meeting was held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Viktor Lotous Chairman 1 1 Michael Abrahams 1 1 Dave Webster 1 1 Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 The CSR Committees role is to formulate and recommend to the Board the Groups policy on corporate safety and social responsibility issues as they affect the Groups operations.
In particular it focuses on ensuring that effective systems and standards, procedures and practices are in place in the Group.
The CSR Committee is responsible in conjunction with the Executive Committee for reviewing managements investigation of incidents or accidents that occur in order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
Further details concerning the activities of the CSR Committee are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 32 to 39.
Committee of Independent Directors The Committee of Independent Directors CID which consists of all five Independent Directors considers and, if appropriate, authorises on behalf of the Board related party transactions and otherwise ensures compliance with Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company.
The CID holds delegated authority to consider and, if appropriate, authorise conflicts of interest of any member of the Board under the relevant section of the Companies Act 2006.
The CID met five times during the year.
The Executive Committee The Executive Committee acts as the main decision making body of the Group.
Its members are detailed on page 9.
It is responsible for taking all material decisions relating to the Group apart from those that are reserved for the entire Board, such as approving the Groups strategy, capital expenditure and budget.
It meets regularly during the year, and no meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Committee to ensure its duties are at all times set in the context of the requirements of the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee the responsibility for the successful execution of Board approved strategies for the Group, the ensuring of appropriate levels of authority delegated to senior management, the review of organisational structures and the development and implementation of Group policies.
Accountability and audit Financial Reporting The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement and the Financial Review contained in this Annual Report.
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are set out on pages 60 and 61.
Audit Committee Report The Combined Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-executive Directors, and that at least one member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
All members of the Audit Committee are considered to possess appropriate knowledge and skills.
Wolfram Kuoni, an independent Non-executive Director, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee and attendance by members at its meetings are outlined on page 44.
During the reporting period the Audit Committee met four times and carried out the following activities: Reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditors, the annual and interim financial statements and associated documents and the preliminary results statement, ensuring that all material information was properly and clearly disclosed.
Reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP the scope of the audit work proposed for 2009 and audit fees.
Reviewed the risk matrix and the internal audit plan, and discussed with BDO Visura International as internal auditors the findings of the internal auditors, and oversaw the transition from BDO Visura to an in-house internal auditor at the end of the year.
Reviewed the whistleblowing policy whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial improprieties or other matters.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and the non-audit services they provided.
In view of the current economic climate, the Audit Committee has paid particular attention throughout the year to the Companys position as a going concern.
The Committee reviewed Group budgets, cash flow forecasts and liquidity, and concluded that the Company can continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A statement on the Boards position Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 46 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued accordance with pre-set limits for investment and regarding the Group as a going concern is contained in the management of the Groups liquid resources including a Directors Report on page 58. separate treasury function.
Internal audit, previously by an external firm of auditors and Internal control since December 2009 by an in-house internal auditor based in The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Ukraine see below who monitors, tests and improves internal internal control which includes risk management and reviewing controls operating within the Group at all levels and reports its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to directly to the CFO and the Audit Committee.
identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with Fraud management through an independent department the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the operating in the Groups key operating subsidiary FPM.
limitations inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to There are a number of components to the system of internal which it is exposed rather than eliminate risk altogether.
controls within the Group which facilitate the control procedures Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not absolute and these are detailed as follows: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A risk matrix has been developed and is monitored and reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Audit The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the Committee.
effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
The A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent Audit Committee reviews these systems on an annual basis.
The and detect material error and loss.
day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance A budgetary and periodic reporting review process performed of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee.
Key risk and control issues are A documented structure of delegated authorities and reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee.
approvals for transaction and investment decisions, including any with related parties.
On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee has established A programme of internal audit reviews has been performed by a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant BDO Visura International and will be pursued by the new risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull internal auditor.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based approach in The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC reviews establishing the Groups system of internal control and in monthly financial information and management accounts, and reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key internal meets fortnightly.
risks, it has established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards and has set up a framework for reporting Treasury matters of significance.
The Audit Committee is responsible for Details of the Group Treasury policy are referred to in the reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, Business Review on page 26 and in the financial statements on internal control systems and the interim and annual financial pages 102 to 109. statements before their submission to the Board.
Investment proposals Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are set A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital out in note 41 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed Information on pages 102 to 109.
See also the Risks section of written proposals are submitted to the Executive Committee and the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31. then to the Board for approval.
The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Internal audit Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of A Group-wide internal audit function has been established using internal controls.
BDO Visura International as an outsourced service provider which reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In As a result of the continual review of internal control procedures December 2009, for reasons of effectiveness and economy, the several key elements have been established within the Group to Audit Committee agreed to recruit an experienced internal ensure a sound system of internal control which is described in auditor who is based in Ukraine and is independent of detail below.
operational management, reporting directly to the CFO and the Audit Committee.
These include: Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the Executive Committee which are reviewed by the An internal audit programme for 2009 and 2010 has been Audit Committee.
approved by the Audit Committee and focuses on the areas of Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and risk identified by the risk reviews carried out on an ongoing basis limits of authority applied to subsidiary companies including by the Executive Committee and the Board.
monitoring and reporting on the regular board meetings held at FPM, the key Ukrainian subsidiary.
Auditor independence Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the including regular forecasts and a rigorous annual budgeting independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, process with reporting against key financial and Ernst & Young LLP, when performing their role in the Groups operational milestones.
Rigorous investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary process where capital expenditure limits are applied to The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the delegated authority limits.
auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into Clearly defined treasury policy monitored and applied in account the views of management, and the outcome of this Corporate Governance Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 47 review is relayed to the relevant partners of Ernst & Young.
The meetings following the announcement of the annual and Audit Committee has regular discussions with the external interim results.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial auditors, without management being present.
Officer, and Head of Investor Relations meet with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and governance, The Audit Committee has approved separate policies in respect and the Non-executive Directors are available for discussions of the provision of non-audit services and employment of former with shareholders if required.
These policies ensure that the external auditors are restricted to providing only those services JPMorgan Cazenove, the Groups brokers, also provide regular which do not compromise their independence, and for instance reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the prohibit the use of the auditors for the provision of transaction or Groups major investors.
Information about the views of major payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and valuation of investors is provided to the Board on a regular basis by the CFO material financial statement amounts.
Any assignment that is and the Head of Investor Relations.
proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of US$500,000 must first be approved by the Audit Committee or The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM each year to its Chairman.
The auditors will also be expected to provide to the communicate with shareholders and welcomes their Audit Committee information about policies and processes for participation.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with Nominations Committees endeavour to be present at the AGMs relevant current requirements, including those regarding the to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the AGM and rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days Group pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm, before the meeting.
The voting results of the AGM are available on the Companys website following the meeting.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on Relations with shareholders the Groups website at www.
The Board attaches great importance to effective communication with shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior executives The Board approved this report on 22 March 2010. have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include
