"Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Directors report corporate governance Corporate governance Compliance with Combined Code Fidessa is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is subject to the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the ""Combined Code"", a copy of which is available on the Financial Reporting Council website www."
In respect of the year ended 31st December 2009 the Company has complied with the requirements of Section 1 of The Combined Code except for part of the year in the composition of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee each of which had only two independent non-executive directors until November 2009.
During the year the Board reviewed the constitution of these Committees and decided that it was appropriate to gain the experience and views of a third independent non-executive director on these Committees and accordingly we are pleased to report, Elizabeth Lake was invited to and agreed to become a member of both of these Committees.
Share capital Details of the called-up and fully paid share capital of the Company are set out in the notes to the financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares and the powers of the directors are set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys shares and no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Articles of Association of the Company and the Nominations Committee Terms of Reference.
Principal shareholders The following have notified the Company as being interested in 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 12th February 2010.
The last holding notified to the Company is below.
Percentage of Ordinary 10p issued share shares capital Aegon UK plc Group of Companies 3,266,590 9.1% Standard Life Investments Limited 2,656,738 7.4% Blackrock, Inc. 2,239,395 6.3% Lindsell Train Limited 1,932,844 5.4% FIL Limited 1,755,160 4.9% Schroders plc 1,709,867 4.8% CJ Sharples 1,450,352 4.0% Lloyds TSB Group Plc 1,431,635 4.0% Legal & General Group Plc 1,425,065 4.0% DA Taylor 1,153,049 3.2% Significant agreements change of control The only significant agreements with change of control provisions are the Companys share option schemes and the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan and Share Bonus Plan.
Under the share option schemes and the Share Bonus Plan, on a change of control of the Company, options and awards would vest in full subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time.
Part of the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan awards would also vest subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time but these would be pro-rated.
The Company does not have agreements with any director that would provide compensation for loss of office resulting from a takeover.
Fidessa group plc 30 Directors report corporate governance continued Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 28th April 2009 shareholders approved a general authority for the Company to re-purchase up to 3,516,943 ordinary shares in the market.
This represented approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time.
No purchase of shares has been made pursuant to this authority, and there is no present intention to use such authority, but the directors consider it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases under appropriate circumstances remains available.
A similar authority will be requested at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, again limited to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Board intends only to exercise this authority if it believes that it will lead to an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
The Board The Company is controlled through the Board, which at 31st December 2009 comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and three non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Malpass Finance Director Member Ron Mackintosh Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Member Philip Hardaker Independent Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Member Elizabeth Lake Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Member After formal review the Board has concluded that Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and Philip Hardaker are independent.
In coming to this opinion the Board considered the character and judgement of the individuals concerned and the fact that they: Have never been an employee of the Group: Have never had a material business relationship with the Group: Do not receive any remuneration from the Group other than their non-executive director fees: Do not have close family ties with other directors or senior management of the Group or with advisers to the Group: Have no significant links with other directors of the Group through involvement with other companies now or in the past: Do not represent a material shareholder of the Company: and Have not served on the Board of the Company for more than nine years.
The Board meets formally on a regular basis to monitor risk and trading performance and to review forecasts strategy and policy, to consider key projects and major investments and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2009 the Board met on ten scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, impromptu Board Meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Several meetings were held by the Chairman with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Remuneration Nominations Board meetings Audit Committee Committee Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended John Hamer 10 10 1 1 Chris Aspinwall 10 10 Andy Malpass 10 10 Ron Mackintosh 10 10 4 4 5 5 1 1 Philip Hardaker 10 10 4 4 5 5 1 1 Elizabeth Lake 10 10 1 1 Elizabeth Lake was appointed to these Committees in November 2009.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance and delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each board meeting it considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that covers key areas of the Groups affairs.
The schedule includes Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of the Groups budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, material financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval and other matters may be approved by senior management but notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually.
A procedure exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at the Companys expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for her advice and services.
All directors are obliged to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Performance evaluation There was a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board during 2009.
This consisted of an internally run review conducted by the Chairman with the Company Secretary.
The performance evaluation questionnaire was based on the Combined Code process and it covered the areas of board structure, effectiveness, committees, information and communication.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and submitted for discussion.
The feedback generated from the questionnaires was discussed by the Board together with potential improvements that could be made.
The conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively.
A review of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executives present was also carried out.
There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
The Chairman is principally responsible for leading the board, promoting constructive debate amongst the board and facilitating communication with shareholders as well as overseeing strategy.
Chris Aspinwall as the Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation of the Group's business and he leads and develops the strategy plans for the business and identifies risk factors.
Training and professional development All directors on joining the Company undergo an induction process and receive ongoing updates to improve their skills and knowledge according to their personal and external needs.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board and updating it on governance matters.
Conflicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006 a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest came into effect from 1st October 2008.
The Company's Articles of Association were amended during the year to allow the directors to consider and if they deem fit to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association set out the process for authorisation of such conflicts and any such conflicts will be recorded in the board minutes and maintained on a register which will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nominations Committee and by the Board.
Committees of the Board In addition to the Remuneration Committee, the details of which are in the Directors Remuneration Report, the audit and nominations committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs and their terms of reference can be found on the Companys website: www.
com Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Philip Hardaker who, in line with the Combined Code, has recent and relevant financial experience as a former partner of KPMG and through his other current appointments.
In addition to Philip, the Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh and, since November 2009, Elizabeth Lake: the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has met four times with the independent external auditors during the year.
The Chairman and executive directors were invited to attend for part of these meetings.
The Committee reviews the interim and annual reports, reports from the external auditors and scope and representation letters in respect of the audit and reviews undertaken by the auditors as well as the auditors remuneration and the overall effectiveness of the audit process.
Fidessa group plc 32 Directors report corporate governance continued There are no contractual obligations that oblige the Company to appoint KPMG to conduct the annual audit.
KPMG has been the Company's auditors since the Company floated in 1997.
There is no agreed timescale requiring formal tendering of the audit appointment, however the Committee reviews on an annual basis the performance, expertise and independence of the external auditors and maintains appropriate contact with potential alternative suppliers for audit and accountancy advisory services.
In addition, the Board receives written confirmation from the auditors of any relationships they have which may cause a conflict of interest, together with a declaration from them that they consider themselves to be independent.
The Board has approved the auditors undertaking certain other limited activities but any assignment outside these activities requires separate Board approval.
Following its review, the Board is satisfied that independence has been maintained and it is satisfied that it is appropriate to continue with the reappointment of KPMG as the Company's auditors.
For details of the auditors fees please refer to the notes to the financial statements.
The Committee reviews the terms of reference, programme, scope of work and reports of the internal audit function.
The Committee focuses the activity of function on those areas where it considers there to be the greatest risks.
The Company engages an external consultant, who reports directly to the Audit Committee to conduct the internal audits of the Group's operations.
The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the internal audit function and is satisfied that independence has been maintained.
The Audit Committee also reviews annually the environmental report, the overall results of ISO 9001:2000 TickIT compliance and the results of independent SAS 70 audits.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Group's website at www.
com and set out the Committees responsibilities.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, which is chaired by John Hamer, comprises John Hamer, Philip Hardaker and Ron Mackintosh and is therefore compliant with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Its role is to review the structure of the Board and to agree succession planning as set out in the Nominations Committee terms of reference.
The procedure for new appointments incorporates the use of independent recruitment consultants where appropriate.
Dialogue with shareholders The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interests in the Companys strategy and performance.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, primarily following the announcement of interim and preliminary results but also at other times during the year as may be suitable.
In addition, this year an investor day was held where analysts and major investors were invited to the Group's London office to view presentations on the Group, its products and services and its progress and to enable them to have the chance to meet members of the management team and to ask any questions about the Group.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director provide feedback to the Board from meetings with shareholders.
The Board also obtains formal feedback on the Group and management from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Companys PR adviser and financial adviser.
Communication with private investors is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director also meet with major shareholders as and when there is a requirement to do so.
Going concern The Groups business activities and position in its market are described in the Overview and Market Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the notes to the Finance Review.
In addition, the notes to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business and its current financial position, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current economic uncertainties.
The Group has considerable financial resources, no borrowings, a high level of recurring revenue and a very broad spread of customers.
As a consequence of these factors and having reviewed the forecasts for the coming year, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including those of an operational and compliance nature, as well as internal financial controls.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks and that this has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Group has established control processes and procedures to ensure compliance with the best practice governance provisions as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance.
The Boards agenda includes a regular item for consideration of risk and control, and any actions that may be considered necessary, and it receives reports thereon from the executive directors.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including competition, control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
A process of control assessment and reporting is established and defined in Fidessa plc's Quality Management System.
This system is independently audited on a regular basis and was successfully audited to ISO 9001:2000 TickIT twice this year.
The UK and US operations also successfully completed the SAS70 audits during the year.
The directors believe this audit is particularly important to our US clients in enabling them to satisfy their Sarbanes Oxley requirements when using a Fidessa solution.
The treasury function operates within guidelines established by the Board.
A comprehensive budgetary process is completed once a year and is reviewed and approved by the Board.
An updated forecast is regularly prepared throughout the year.
The operating results are reported monthly to the Board and compared to the budget and latest forecast as appropriate.
The Company presents financial statements to its shareholders twice a year.
For details of the Groups financial risk and policies together with its policy with regard to the use of financial instruments, please refer to the Finance Review section of the Directors' Report and in the notes to the financial statements.
Statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Fidessa group plc 34 Directors report corporate governance continued Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Group's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the directors' report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board Susanna Freeman Secretary 12th February 2010
