FIRSTGROUP PLC Corporate governance The Company applies all of the main and supporting principles of David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright, good governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Audrey Baxter, Colin Hood and Tim OToole are considered to Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council be independent within this definition.
As Martyn Williams is an in 2006 the Code.
The way in which it applies those principles employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries, he cannot be is set out below.
Except as described in paragraph 1.1 b below, considered to be independent.
However, the Board feels very the Company complies with all of the provisions of section 1 of strongly that it is extremely beneficial for its employees to be the Code.
represented on the Board in this way so that important employeerelated issues can be raised at the highest level and a two-way 1 The BOaRD anD ITS PRInCIPaL COMMITTeeS communication process between the management of the Company Details of the Board, its members and its principal committees are and its employees is maintained.
Therefore, the Company complies with the Code provision that at 1.1 The Board least one half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is made up of a Board structure and responsibilities Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be The Board currently consists of the Chairman, three Executive independent.
The Directors are satisfied that the current Board Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets possesses the breadth of business, financial and international at least nine times each year and is responsible for setting and experience necessary to manage effectively an organisation of reviewing the Companys strategy and objectives, reviewing the the size and complexity of the Group.
financial and operational performance of each of the Groups business units, agreeing and reviewing progress against the c Roles of the Chairman and Chief executive Groups annual budgets and setting and reviewing on a regular The Chairman basis its longer term business plans.
It also has a schedule of The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
He has a written matters specifically reserved to it including approval of the annual statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board: and interim financial statements, financing arrangements, material capital commitments, business acquisitions and disposals, The Chairman is responsible for: relationships with regulatory authorities and operating and accounting policies.
leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues During the year, the Board met nine times and all members of the relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: Board attended all meetings except for Audrey Baxter who was absent from one of those meetings.
The Board also held a number ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the of separate strategy meetings.
In January 2009 Dean Finch was provision of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board: appointed as Chief Operating Officer, overseeing the operations of all the Groups businesses other than UK Rail, which reports to ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the the Chief Executive.
Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: Simultaneously with that appointment Nicola Shaw joined the Board managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for as Director Bus UK, Ireland and Germany following her role as the discussion of complex or contentious issues: Managing Director UK Bus which she had held since she joined the Group in May 2005. ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, its Committees and individual Directors: Acting Finance Director Nick Chevis attended all meetings of the Board, although not as a member of the Board.
taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to David Leeder, formerly Director of International Development, enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team: resigned from the Board on 15 September 2008. facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors Dean Finch, formerly Chief Operating Officer, resigned from the and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Board on 1 May 2009.
Non-Executive Directors: On 7 May 2009 Colin Hood and Tim OToole were appointed as ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that Non-Executive Directors.
new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure their early contribution to the Board: and b Board balance and independence The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has been encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
reviewed against the definition of independence in the Code.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RePORT OF The DIReCTORS The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance give presentations on current issues facing the business.
A number evaluation review, that Martin Gilberts significant and in-depth of Board meetings each year are held on site at operating locations knowledge and experience of the Groups business, combined in the UK and US allowing the Directors to visit the Groups operations with his external business experience, enables him to provide and to discuss key issues with local operational management effective leadership of the Board and to continue to make a and stakeholders.
positive contribution to the Groups ongoing business.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The Chairmans other significant business commitments, which Company Secretary and, if necessary, can seek independent remain unchanged from last year, are described in his biography on professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance page 33.
The Board performance evaluation process confirmed that of their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the other Board members are satisfied that Martin Gilbert has the the Board on corporate governance matters and for ensuring necessary time available to devote to the proper performance of his compliance with Board procedures.
Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board, which is The Chief Executive tailored to their individual needs.
This includes meetings with senior The Chief Executive is Sir Moir Lockhead.
The Chief Executive also management and relevant external advisers.
In addition, information has a written statement of responsibilities which has been approved is provided on their responsibilities and obligations under law, by the Board: regulation and best practice guidelines.
The induction process is supported during the year by the programme of business The Chief Executive is responsible for: presentations and operational visits described above.
running the day-to-day business of the Group, within the The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes to the authorities delegated to him by the Board: law and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies and f Performance evaluation strategy set by the Board for the Group: During the course of the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its performance.
The Chairman led the process, assisted by the day-to-day management of the executive and senior management Company Secretary.
The objectives of this exercise were to ensure team: that the Board, its Committees and each individual Director continued to act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities expected leading the development of senior management within the Group of them and to identify any additional training requirements.
A tailored with the aim of assisting the training and development of suitable questionnaire was developed, which each Director completed.
The individuals for future Director roles: responses were analysed and discussed at a meeting of the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director led a process of ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
No significant issues of the issues facing the Group and of any important events and were raised in the course of the evaluation process.
developments: and g Re-election of Directors leading the development of the Groups future strategy including As required by the Companys Articles of Association, Directors identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
business and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
Any Director appointed during the year is required to seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General d Senior Independent non-executive Director Meeting.
The biographical details of all the Directors, including David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the those seeking re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to are set out on pages 32 and 33.
As indicated above, David Dunn shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal and Jim Forbes will retire at the Annual General Meeting and will channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director or Acting not seek re-election.
Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Following more than nine years service on the Board, h appointment of non-executive Directors he will retire at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial July 2009 and will not seek re-election.
He will be succeeded as term of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director by John Sievwright.
They have letters of appointment which are available on request for inspection.
e Information and professional development of Board members The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be i Directors and Officers liability insurance conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual Board The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance members have direct access to senior executives should they wish cover throughout the year as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. to receive additional information on any of the items for discussion.
The cover was renewed on 1 April 2009.
The head of each operating division attends Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the performance of and current issues facing that division.
Management FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTInUeD 2 COMMITTeeS OF The BOaRD 2.5 Remuneration Committee In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Jim Forbes, the terms of reference for which are published on the Companys met nine times during the year and all members of the Committee website and details of which are set out below, the Board has also attended all of its meetings held whilst they were Directors except delegated certain matters to Committees.
The principal such for Jim Forbes and Audrey Baxter who were each absent from one Committees are: of these meetings.
Details of the membership of the Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 47, 2.1 executive Safety Committee eSC together with a statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a monthly policy.
Full details of Directors remuneration appear on page 46. basis.
It comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers Upon Jim Forbess retiral from the Board the Remuneration and safety officers.
The ESC reviews the Groups safety performance Committee will be chaired by Audrey Baxter.
and practices, develops safety policies and procedures and follows up on outstanding issues.
During the year a number of meetings 2.6 audit Committee were attended by independent safety experts and senior The Audit Committee is chaired by David Dunn and includes David representatives of relevant industry bodies, including the Health Begg, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright, Audrey Baxter, Colin Hood and & Safety Executive.
It met three times during the year and all members attended each meeting held whilst they were Directors except for 2.2 executive Management Board eMB Audrey Baxter and Jim Forbes who were absent from one of these The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain meetings.
The Group Director of Internal Audit and the Companys senior business managers, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
external auditors attended each of these meetings.
Executive It acts as a general operating management committee and meets Directors and other senior managers attended where requested on a monthly basis to review outstanding issues and to consider and as appropriate.
Upon David Dunns retiral from the Board the Groups operational and financial performance.
John Sievwright will chair the Audit Committee.
2.3 executive Committee The Board considers that each member of the Committee has The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the Committee and meets on an ad hoc basis to consider matters which arise to discharge its functions effectively.
in the ordinary course of the Groups operations.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and has specific delegated powers within Under its remit, the Committee keeps under review the effectiveness prescribed limits to deal with matters arising in the ordinary course of the Companys financial reporting and internal control policies of business which need to be considered before the next scheduled and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of Board meeting.
It also keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the audits conducted by the internal audit department and the external 2.4 nomination Committee and appointments to the Board auditors, the consistency of accounting policies and reporting The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert, the across the Group and it reviews the half-year and full-year financial Chairman, and includes David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, statements before they are presented to the Board.
John Sievwright, Audrey Baxter, Colin Hood and Tim OToole.
Sir Moir Lockhead attends meetings of the Committee at the The Committee considers the Groups compliance with the Code invitation of the Chairman of the Committee and Martyn Williams and its related guidance and oversees the objectivity and also attends such meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the effectiveness of internal audit.
The work of the internal audit Committee to represent the Groups employees.
The Committee department is focused on areas of priority as identified by risk meets as required to discuss appointments to the Board of both analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Its recommendations the Committee and the Board.
Reports are sent to senior executives are then put to the full Board for consideration.
External search of the Group and subsidiary units and there is a follow-up process consultants are used to assist the process, where appropriate.
to ensure that actions to resolve identified control weaknesses are implemented.
The Group Director of Internal Audit has the right of During the year the Committee met three times and all members of direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
the Committee attended each meeting held whilst they were Directors.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, the Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the which comprises the Employee Directors and representatives of Groups external auditors and recommends to the Board the audit each of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and serves a maximum fee to be paid to the external auditors.
The Boards decision on of three three-year terms.
these matters is subject to the approval of shareholders.
The Committee is also charged with monitoring the independence of the The Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors to accept a external auditors and the objectivity and effectiveness of the external limited number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising audit process.
The objectivity and independence of the external that this is an effective way to broaden their knowledge and auditors is considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to expertise.
However, no such appointment can be taken up without the level of non-audit fees.
The majority of non-audit work is put out prior Board approval.
The Companys policy on fees relating to to tender, with the exception of due diligence work on acquisitions such outside directorships is set out on page 44 of the Directors or potential acquisitions in both the UK and overseas, where the Remuneration Report.
current auditors knowledge of the Companys business processes 36 36 F Fir irstGr stGroup oup Ann Annual R ual Repor eport and t and A Accounts 2009 ccounts 2009 RePORT OF The DIReCTORS and controls means that they are best placed to undertake this The Board has continued to strengthen the on-going process for work cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
The majority of the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced non-audit work undertaken by the auditors during the year was by the Group.
As part of this process a Risk Group has been associated with tax advisory work.
Details of the audit and non-audit established, comprising senior management representatives from all fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit fee, are set out in of the Groups main businesses as well as from the finance, treasury, note 6 to the financial statements.
The external auditors have legal, insurance and Group internal audit functions.
The Risk Group direct access to the Committee to raise any matters that may meets four times annually and reports to the Board with the express concern them.
purpose of reviewing the risk and control procedures in each of the business areas and support functions.
As an integral part of The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the planning and review, management from each of the business areas Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement and support functions identify the risks facing their operations, as of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the well as the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
The probability of external auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external risks occurring as well as the likely impact on the Groups business, auditors also meet separately with the Committee and or the should the risks occur, are also assessed and documented.
These Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director or Acting Finance risks are assessed on a regular basis, taking into account changes Director.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements and interim in both external and internal circumstances, which may include results go through a detailed verification and due diligence process alterations to regulatory requirements, disruption to information involving external advisers.
systems, industrial relation issues, control breakdowns, as well as changes in the economic climate and social, ethical and The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other environmental issues.
From the reports submitted to it by the officers of the Group to attend its meetings but none has the right of Risk Group the Board is able to keep under regular review the attendance.
Committee meetings may be requested by the external major risks and mitigating controls facing the Group.
or internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
4.2 Control environment The business considered and discussed by the Committee during The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and the year included the reports of the external auditors on the half-year moral values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with and full-year results, the 2009 10 Group Internal Audit Plan and which all managers and employees are required to comply.
The budget, papers concerning any regular and special audits and Group has a Code of Business Ethics, which is part of the Groups an executive summary of each internal audit report, risk analysis Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and applies to all of its assessments and a review of the implications of changes in subsidiary undertakings, a copy of which is available on the accounting standards and the application and implementation Companys website.
of International Financial Reporting Standards.
In addition, the Board has established a Group Hospitality and 3 FInanCIaL RePORTInG Gifts Register which records all hospitality or gifts, the value of The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups which exceeds a fide minimis amount, given or received by all external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and Board and EMB members.
Additional Hospitality and Gift Registers comprehensible assessment of the Groups financial position and are also maintained at the divisional level ensuring that all senior prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and management in the Group are required to disclose hospitality or other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published gifts given or received.
information including, but not limited to, the year-end and half-yearly financial statements, regulatory news announcements and other The Group has a defined divisional organisational structure with public information.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities for lines of authority and delegated responsibility which allows the preparing the financial statements may be found on page 51.
Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a manner consistent with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day 4 InTeRnaL COnTROLS business management is delegated to the Executive Directors and The Board has established procedures to meet the requirements subsidiary unit managing directors under the overall direction of of the Code and its related guidance on internal controls.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself a procedures, which are subject to regular review, provide an ongoing number of specific items, which ensures that it retains control over process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant key business decisions and significant transactions in terms of size, risks faced by the Group.
A number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate 4.1 Responsibility communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control Each of these functions is monitored by an Executive Director.
The responsibility for establishing detailed control and risk management procedures within each subsidiary lies 4.3 Monitoring with the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors.
The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather which complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against function to all subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies material misstatement or loss.
and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
These are also available on the Groups intranet.
Budgets are prepared by F Fir irstGr stGroup oup Ann Annual R ual Repor eport and t and A Accounts 2009 ccounts 2009 37 37 CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTInUeD subsidiary company management and are subject to review by Rail franchise agreements both Group management and the Executive Directors.
Monthly The Group is required to comply with certain conditions as part of its forecasts are completed during the year and compared against rail franchise agreements.
If it fails to comply with these conditions it actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of may be liable to penalties including the potential termination of one operating performance, with a commentary on variances against or more of the rail franchise agreements.
This would result in the budget, forecasts and prior year.
Similar reports are prepared at Group losing the right to continue operating the affected operations a Group Level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and and, consequently, the related revenues or cash flows.
The Group operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
In addition, business may also lose some or all of the amounts set aside as security for units participate in strategic reviews which include consideration performance bonds and the season ticket bonds.
of long term financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Compliance with franchise conditions are closely managed and monitored on a monthly basis by senior management and Throughout the year Internal Audit conduct a comprehensive procedures are in place to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
programme of reviews of internal controls within the operating units.
These reviews invariably bring to light a number of minor control Legislation and regulation weaknesses.
These are discussed with management and remedial Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating safety action plans are agreed.
Where appropriate, follow up visits to the procedures, equipment specifications, employment requirements, operating entity then confirm that the action plans have been environmental procedures, insurance coverage and other operating completed and that the controls that have been put in place and issues and considerations.
These laws and regulations are are working effectively.
No material losses, contingencies or constantly subject to change.
The costs associated with complying uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual with the adoption of new legislation, regulation or other laws could Report have resulted from this process.
adversely impact the results of our operations.
4.4 Risks and Uncertainties To help mitigate the risk of legislative or regulatory changes the There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties that could Group regularly lobbies both Government and transport bodies.
have an impact on the Groups long term performance.
Labour costs and employee relations Competitive pressures Labour costs represent the largest component of the Groups All of the Groups businesses compete in the areas of pricing and operating costs.
Labour shortages, or low unemployment rates, could service and face competition from a number of sources.
hinder the Groups ability to recruit and retain qualified employees leading to a higher than expected increase in the cost of recruitment, In UK Bus, the main competitor remains the car.
The cost of driving training and other staff costs.
In addition, it is important for a labour a car is generally perceived as being lower than travelling by bus, intensive Group that good employee relations are maintained.
The especially if there is more than one person in the car.
To make bus Group seeks to mitigate these risks by its recruitment and retention travel a viable alternative to the car the Company continues to work policies, training schemes and working practices.
with local authorities to introduce bus priority measures and effect infrastructure changes promoting bus patronage.
Fuel costs Fuel prices and supply levels can be influenced significantly by The main competitor to the Groups UK Rail businesses is again international, political and economic circumstances.
If fuel supply the car, and to a lesser extent, long-distance coach operators and shortages were to arise because of national strikes, world supply budget airlines.
To help mitigate the risks posed by these pressures difficulties, disruption of refining capacity or oil imports, the resultant the Group is working with a number of local and national bodies to higher fuel prices and disruption to services could adversely impact ensure that the services provided meet, or exceed, the requirements the Groups operating results.
To mitigate the risks of rising fuel costs the Group regularly enters In North America, the Groups businesses cover a wide geographic into forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed prices.
In addition the spread competing with several large companies as well as a Group seeks to limit the impact of unexpected fuel price rises substantial number of smaller, locally owned or government owned through efficiency and pricing measures.
Our competitors in the yellow school bus business can also include school districts since most school districts also operate Treasury risks and insurance costs their own school buses.
Similarly, while the majority of transit and The Board has set a comprehensive policy for the management service business streams are operated by private entities, including of risks arising from treasury operations.
These include risks several large companies, our First Transit and First Services associated with foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in fuel businesses also compete with many municipalities.
Our Greyhound prices, interest rate movements, and liquidity.
This is set out in more coach operations face competition from a number of other coach detail in note 25 to the financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy operators in North America as well as from budget airlines.
In North has been formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best America all of our businesses continue to compete on service, practice and to control and monitor effectively the risks attendant quality and price.
upon treasury and banking operations.
38 38 F Fir irstGr stGroup oup Ann Annual R ual Repor eport and t and A Accounts 2009 ccounts 2009 RePORT OF The DIReCTORS RISk IMPaCT MITIGaTInG COnTROL Competitive pressures Loss of business Focus on stakeholder requirements including service, quality and price Rail franchise agreements Potential termination of one or more Close monitoring and management of the rail franchise agreements of franchise conditions Legislation and regulation Adverse impact on our ability Regular lobbying of both Government to operate and transport bodies Labour costs and Ability to recruit and retain Adoption of appropriate recruitment and employee relations qualified employees reduces retention, training and working practices Fuel costs Lower operating results Adoption of forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed costs together with efficiency and pricing measures Treasury risks and Funding not achieved adverse impact Comprehensive treasury management insurance costs on operating results policies, monitoring and oversight, and Group emphasis on safety Pensions Material changes to accounting Diversification of investments cost and cash requirements Terrorism Reputational damage and the demand Implementation of security measures for our services and the training of employees Retention of key management Ability to execute Group strategy Adoption of market based compensation packages Customer service and Revenue levels reduce Intensive staff training on service associated contract retention requirements and close monitoring of service KPIs environmental Financial loss reputational damage Detailed fuel handling procedures, monitoring of utilities usage and adoption of emission reduction policies economy Loss of business Organisational structure of businesses The Group has three main insurable risks: automotive third party Pensions claims, employee injuries and property damage.
The size of the The Group has significant defined benefit pension obligations Groups operations is such that there is a high frequency of low relating to its UK Bus, Rail and Greyhound businesses.
Under the value claims which the Group self-insures up to certain limits, and franchise arrangements the UK Rail business is not responsible purchases insurance above these limits from reputable global for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise, so there is only insurance firms.
short term cash-flow risk within this area.
For both UK Bus and Greyhound the volatility of the underlying investments and liabilities Although the Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising insurance can create material changes in the accounting cost and cash costs through its emphasis on safety, there can be no assurance requirements in subsequent years.
Through diversification of that future self-insurance and external insurance costs may not investments the Group seeks to mitigate these impacts although, adversely impact the Groups business and results of operations.
in extreme market conditions, such as those experienced over the In addition, material levels of insurance cover for loss of profits previous 18 months, it is not possible to completely negate these.
and cash flows associated with business interruption events is not generally available in the insurance market for transportation businesses.
F Fir irstGr stGroup oup Ann Annual R ual Repor eport and t and A Accounts 2009 ccounts 2009 39 39 CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTInUeD Terrorism economy Terrorist acts and the publics concerns about potential attacks An economic downturn, whether at a global, regional or national could adversely affect demand for our services.
More particularly if level could have a negative impact on the Groups businesses and we were to be perceived as not taking all reasonable precautions to the opportunity to grow existing contracts.
The level of economic guard against potential terrorist acts this could adversely affect our activity affects the number of bus and train journeys taken by reputation with the public.
The Group has a Head of Security who passengers in the UK and North America.
Many areas of the is responsible for improved security awareness, the application of Groups business offer a certain degree of protection against good practice in the implementation of security measures, and economic downturn in specific geographic markets, in particular the development and training of our employees so that they can the North American school bus business and the revenue support respond effectively to any perceived threat or incident.
and profit sharing arrangements in place in certain rail franchises, the ability of most UK Bus operating companies to modify services Retention of key management on giving 56 days notice and the even greater flexibility given to Attracting and keeping key members of senior management is the Greyhound operations.
vital in ensuring that the Group continues to have the necessary expertise and continuity to execute its strategy.
In order that 4.5 whistleblowing management have diverse and challenging careers they are given The Group has established procedures whereby employees autonomy, within parameters set by the Board, to run their businesses.
of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to The Group also offers market based compensation packages personal issues, potential fraud, health and safety, harassment, consisting of an appropriate mix of long and short term incentives.
discrimination, security or any other matter.
The confidential hotline covers all businesses across the Group and each country in which Customer service and associated contract retention it operates.
The Groups revenues are at risk if it does not continue to provide the level of service expected by customers.
This could result in The Group is confident that these whistleblowing arrangements contracts not being renewed in the case of our North American are satisfactory and will enable a proportionate and independent business and passengers no longer using our services in the UK.
investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action to To mitigate this risk all staff undertake intensive training programmes be taken.
to ensure they are aware of and abide by the levels of service that are required by our customers in each business.
The Board also 4.6 Review of effectiveness of financial controls monitors in detail a series of customer service KPIs at each meeting The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of to ensure strict targets are being met.
the system of internal controls for the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements environmental through the monitoring process described above.
In addition, the We store and manage large quantities of fuel at our maintenance Directors confirm that they have conducted a specific annual review sites, which presents a potential regulatory and financial risk in of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
the event of significant loss or spillage.
To mitigate these risks our storage facilities are subject to regular inspection and all fuel 4.7 Treasury operations handling operations are subject to detailed operating procedures.
The Board has set a policy for the management of the risks from treasury operations and this is set out in more detail in note 25 We are subject to ongoing changes in environmental regulations.
A Group Treasury Policy has been The most recent is the Carbon Reduction Commitment, which will formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best practice come into force in April 2010.
We have in place programmes for and to control and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon monitoring the utilities usage covered by the regulations and have treasury and banking operations.
taken early action which will favour our ranking in the public league table.
We continuously review regulatory changes through our CSR Currency exchange rate fluctuation and exposure Steering Committee that reports directly to the EMB and the Board.
The Groups principal operations are in the UK, the US and Canada and are therefore subject to currency fluctuations, both in terms of In line with all businesses we face the challenge of addressing its trading activities and the translation of its financial statements.
climate change, both managing its impact and reducing emissions The Group currently has a significant natural hedge arising from in line with the targets established in the Climate Change Act.
dollar-denominated earnings in the US businesses offset by dollarClimate change has the potential to impact on our UK and North denominated interest costs and fuel costs in its UK businesses.
American operations, a risk we need to keep under review.
We are seeking to reduce our own emissions in line with Government 4.8 Change of control targets but are also seeking to ensure we capitalise on the a Financing agreements opportunities the need to reduce carbon emissions brings for a The Group has a number of syndicated facilities including the business such as ours that offers low carbon solutions to peoples US $2,250m multi-currency term loan facility which was outstanding mobility needs.
at 31 March 2009 but has since been repaid in full, following the 350m bond issued in April 2009 and the US $1,500m multi-currency revolving credit and guarantee facility between, amongst others, the Company and HSBC Bank plc, JP Morgan plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc dated 9 February 2007.
The relevant syndicated financing agreements contain provisions entitling the lenders to 40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 RePORT OF The DIReCTORS exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of 4.9 auditors control of the Company.
Following any change of control of the Deloitte LLP formerly Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed Company, the majority of the lenders are obliged to negotiate with their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution the Company with a view to resolving any concerns arising from to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual such change of control and, if the matter has not been resolved to General Meeting.
the reasonable satisfaction of the majority of the lenders in that time, then, if the majority of the lenders so require, the total commitments 5 ReLaTIOnS wITh ShaRehOLDeRS under the facility are cancelled and all outstanding amounts become The Group recognises the importance of regular communication repayable.
The Companys bilateral financing agreements contain with all of its shareholders.
The full Annual Report and Financial similar provisions and following a change of control of the Company, Statements are made available to all shareholders and an Interim the bank shall negotiate with the Company with a view to resolving Report is published and sent to shareholders at the half-year.
These any concerns arising from such change of control and, if the matter reports are intended to provide shareholders and other interested has not been resolved to the reasonable satisfaction of the bank in parties with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups that time, the bank may if the bank so requires cancel the total operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
commitments under the facility and require prepayment of all outstanding amounts.
All investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, appointments etc.
via regulatory news and press releases and the The 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013, the 250m 6.125% bonds due Groups website.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional 2019, the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018 and the 350m 8.750% shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are bonds due 2021 issued by the Company may also be affected by a made by the Chief Executive and Finance Director or Acting Finance change of control of the Company.
A change of control in respect of Director following the announcement of the full and half-year results.
the 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013 and the 250m 6.125% bonds Other Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings due 2019, may result in an increase in the interest rate payable on with major shareholders if requested.
However, the interest rate on the bonds will only be so increased if certain further conditions in Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from relation to the credit rating of the bonds are also satisfied.
In respect investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
The of the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018 and the 350m 8.750% Non-Executive Directors have also had informal contact with major bonds due 2021, upon a change of control of the Company, together shareholders regarding the Group during the year and they expect with the satisfaction of certain further conditions in relation to the that informal dialogue to continue.
credit rating of the bonds, the bondholders have the option to redeem the bonds.
6 annUaL GeneRaL MeeTInG All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the b Uk Rail Directors at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which a The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First Capital report is made on the highlights of the key business developments Connect, First ScotRail, First TransPennine Express and First Great during the year under review.
The Chairmen of each of the Western, are each subject to termination clauses in their franchise Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees attend the Annual agreements which may apply on a change of control.
These operators General Meeting to answer specific questions from shareholders.
and the Groups non-franchised rail operators, First Hull Trains and All Directors who then held office were present at the 2008 Annual First GBRf, each hold railway licences as required by the Railways General Meeting.
Act 1993 which may be revoked on three months notice if a change of control occurs without the approval of the Office of Rail Regulation.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all The Groups railway operators also lease rolling stock from specialist shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
rolling stock leasing companies HSBC Rail UK Limited, Porterbrook Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting Leasing Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
A material on each substantially separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on number of the individual leasing agreements include change of all resolutions and, where votes are taken on a show of hands, the control provisions.
proxy results are subsequently announced to the meeting.
c Joint venture agreements It is customary for joint venture agreements to include provisions addressing change of control.
The Companys joint venture agreements with Keolis UK Limited in relation to First TransPennine Express and with DSB in relation to DSB First Aps and DSB Sverige AB contain such provisions.
d London bus contracts The Groups UK Bus business operates London bus routes with London Bus Services Limited.
These agreements include change of control provisions, which are significant when all the routes are considered together.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41
