Steering us in the right direction Report of the Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination d to ensure that new Board members arrived at having regard to the balance Committee during the year were: have sufficient time to undertake the of the Board, the business experience role: and of current Non-Executive Directors and Christopher Collins Non-Executive e to ensure that an appropriate induction the Combined Code: Director Chairman plan has been put in place for every b A shortlist of candidates was drawn Gerry Brown Non-Executive new Director.
up based on the search results against Director the profile: Struan Robertson Non-Executive The Committee shall also make c The shortlisted candidates were then Director recommendations to the Board in interviewed by the Chairman of the David Richardson Non-Executive respect of the following: Audit Committee, the Group Chief Director Executive and the Group Finance James Tuckey Non-Executive a the re-appointment of a Director: the results of the interviews Director Non-Executive Director: were discussed with members of the Charles Hammond Group b the re-election by shareholders of any Nomination Committee.
The members Chief Executive Director under the retirement by of the Nomination Committee then rotation provisions in the Companys interviewed the preferred candidate retired on 31st December 2009 Articles of Association: who also met the other Board members: c the continuation in office as a Director and David Richardson became Chairman of any Director at any time: and d Thereafter, the Nomination Committee of the Committee on 1st January 2010. d the appointment of any Director to recommended to the Board that Marie-Louise Clayton became a member Executive or other office other than to Marie-Louise Clayton be invited to of the Committee on the same date.
the positions of Chairman and Group become a Non-Executive Director of the Chief Executive, the recommendation Company and her appointment was The Group Company Secretary acts for which shall be considered at a confirmed at the December Board as Secretary to the Committee.
meeting of all the Directors regarding meeting.
Members of the Nomination Committee A short biography of Marie-Louise serve for an initial period of up to three The Committee is authorised to seek Clayton can be found on page 39.
The years with the option to extend by no any information it requires from any Committee is delighted that Marie-Louise more than two additional three year employee of the Company in order to Clayton has become a Non-Executive periods.
It is authorised to Director of the Company and will also obtain, at the Companys expense, chair the Audit Committee.
She brings The Committee meets not less than outside legal or other professional advice a wealth of financial experience and the once a year and at such other times on any matters within its Terms of Committee is confident she will make a as business requires.
valuable contribution to the Company.
In 2009, the Committee met to discuss Following their appointment new The Terms of Reference of the Committee the process of the appointment of a new Directors and Senior Managers participate may be summarised as follows: Non-Executive Director who would also in the Companys induction programmes succeed David Richardson as Chairman where each individual will meet Senior a to prepare a description of the role and of the Audit Committee.
The Committee Managers, be shown the principal capabilities required for a particular prepared a detailed brief of a search to locations of the Group and be given Board appointment: be carried out by Hanson Green, an presentations on the Companys strategy, targets and different business units.
b to be responsible for identifying and independent firm of Search Consultants.
nominating, for approval of the Board, David Richardson candidates to fill the Board vacancies The recruitment process was as follows: as and when they arise: Chairman c to satisfy itself with regard to succession a An overall profile for potential 22nd March 2010 planning: candidates was agreed.
