Steering us in the right direction Report of the Audit Committee Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 Report of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee Statement August, and on planning practices, major judgmental areas, work for the 2009 full year audit during the year were: significant adjustments resulting from December.
In addition, the Interim the audit, the going concern Management Statements were approved David Richardson Non-Executive Director assumption, compliance with Chairman by all members of the Committee.
Accounting Standards and compliance Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director with UK Listing Authority, London Stock Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director The Terms of Reference of the Audit Exchange and legal requirements: Committee authorise it to seek any James Tuckey Non-Executive Director f to monitor and review any formal information it requires from any announcements relating to the employee and all employees are required David Richardson was Chairman and Companys financial performance, a member of the Audit Committee to co-operate with any requests made by including the Interim Management the Committee.
The Committee is throughout 2009, the period to which this Statements: report relates.
Marie-Louise Clayton was authorised by the Board to obtain outside g to monitor and review the Companys legal or other independent professional appointed to the Board and became Chair internal financial controls: of the Audit Committee with effect from advice and to secure the attendance of h to monitor and review the internal audit outsiders with relevant experience and 1st January 2010.
She has recent and programme, to review the co-ordination relevant financial experience.
expertise if it is considered necessary.
between the internal and external auditors and to ensure that the internal The Group Chief Executive, the Group The Terms of Reference of the Committee audit function is adequately resourced may be summarised as follows: Finance Director and Managing Director, to a level commensurate with the Port of Tilbury, are in attendance at the a to consider the appointment of the Companys requirements: external auditors, the audit fee and any Audit Committee meetings, however, they i to ensure that all matters within the are not present for the full meeting as the questions of resignation or dismissal remit of the Committee are dealt with and to make recommendations to the Audit Committee has separate sessions in an open, fair and transparent manner: with only the internal and external Board for it to put to shareholders: j to report to the Board, identifying any b to monitor and review the external auditors present.
The Chairman of the matters in respect of which it considers Board is also in attendance.
auditors independence and objectivity that action or improvement is needed and the effectiveness of the audit and make recommendations as to the The Group Company Secretary acts as process, taking into consideration steps to be taken: and relevant UK professional and regulatory Secretary to the Committee.
k to review arrangements by which staff requirements: of the Company may, in confidence, c to discuss with the external auditors the Members of the Audit Committee serve raise concerns about possible for an initial period of up to three years nature and scope of the audit and improprieties in matters of financial ensure co-ordination where more than with the option to extend by no more reporting or other matters, and to than two additional three year periods one audit firm is involved: ensure that arrangements are in place d to develop and implement a policy on provided the members are considered for the proportionate and independent to be independent.
The Company has the engagement of the external auditors investigation of such matters and for to supply non-audit services, taking into complied with the Combined Code appropriate follow up action.
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit The risk management system is reviewed The Audit Committee met on three services by the external audit firm: by the Board.
e to monitor and review the integrity of occasions during the year to receive reports on various matters including the the accounts focusing particularly on any changes in accounting policies and full year accounts March, the Interim Steering us in the right direction Report of the Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee reviewed the 2 Tax Consulting The Audit Committee also received a external auditors independence: it In cases where knowledge of the Groups report at all of its meetings from the considered the external auditors quality tax position is important, Forth Ports may internal auditor on the work which had control procedures and reviewed and use the external auditors and their been carried out.
A separate Internal approved the level of audit fees by associates but this does not preclude the Audit Plan is presented to the Audit reference to the total level of fees which Group from using other tax consulting Committee by the internal auditor for the external auditors had been paid firms.
Significant additional tax work consideration at the last Audit Committee during the year: it also compared the fees should be evaluated competitively.
meeting of each year in respect of the paid to the external auditors with fees following years work programme.
paid to other professional advisors for 3 General and Systems Consulting The Audit Committee reviewed the accounting and other tax work.
It received All significant consulting projects, effectiveness of the internal audit function a presentation from the external auditors including due diligence work, should be and was satisfied as to the effectiveness of that function given the size and in which the views of the external subject to competitive tender.
The Group auditors were expressed in relation Finance Director is required to give prior complexity of the business.
to the question of independence.
It also approval of work to be carried out by the assessed the effectiveness of the external external auditors if the fee proposal is A whistle blowing policy is in operation throughout the Group.
This policy sets audit process considering the quality between 5,000 and 49,999.
If the fee of people and service provided by the proposal is in excess of 50,000 this out the position whereby any concerns, including those of a financial nature, may external auditors, the robustness of should be pre-approved by the Chairman the audit and the quality of delivery.
of the Audit Committee if it is proposed to be raised at the appropriate level within the Group.
give this work to the external auditors.
 LLP have been Marie-Louise Clayton the Companys auditors since it listed During 2009, the Company used four on the London Stock Exchange in 1992. different firms of professional advisers to Chair The Audit Committee considers that the advise on accounting, corporation tax, 22nd March 2010 relationship with the auditors is working VAT and other financial matters.
The fees well and remains satisfied with their received by the external auditors were as effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not follows: considered it necessary to date to require 2009 2008 000 000 the firm to tender for the audit work.
Statutory audit fees 396 434 The external auditors are required to Non-audit services: rotate the audit partners responsible for Tax advisory services 12 9 the Group and subsidiary accounts every Other 42 6 five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for four years.
450 449 The Audit Committees policy on the The Audit Committee carried out a review external auditors undertaking non-audit of its effectiveness by considering such work is as follows: matters as skillsets of members, quality of Audit Committee papers, relationships 1 Audit Related Services with the external auditors and the internal This is the primary area of work for auditor and suggestions for improving the external auditors.
If any additional the Committees performance.
The results accounting support is required, then were discussed and approved by the this should be considered on a Audit Committee which expressed itself competitive basis.
satisfied as to its effectiveness.
