CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code establishes, in Section 1, 17 main principles of good governance in four areas: Directors, Directors Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, and Relations with Shareholders.
The following sections explain how these principles were applied a detailed report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages 78 to 81.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2009, the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Code, save in the following two respects: Code Provision A.
2.2: The Code states that the chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out within the Code.
The Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
Alberto Baillres has been a board member of Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles since 1962 and its chairman since 1967.
Peoles retains a 77.1% holding the Company.
Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the successful development of Fresnillo over many years and, therefore, the Board considers that Mr Baillres continued involvement as Chairman is very important to the Company at the present stage of its development: Code Provision B.
2.1: The Code provides that the Board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three Independent Non-executive Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee is made up of three members including two independent Non-executive Directors one of whom, Lord Cairns, is the chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Company, Mr Baillres, who was not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a member.
The Board believes that Mr Baillres experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not involved in matters concerning his own remuneration.
THE BOARD STRUCTURE The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, management, governance and control issues.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the UK Companies Act, London Stock Exchange Listing Rules and the Code.
It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the members of the Executive Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Board has delegated authority to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: The Audit Committee: which has responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the integrity of the Fresnillo Groups financial statements.
It oversees the Groups relationship with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management systems.
The Remuneration Committee: which has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Fresnillo Groups policy on the remuneration of senior management being the Executive Director and the other members of the Executive Committee and for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of the remuneration of the Chairman and of specic remuneration packages for the Executive Director and the members of the Executive Committee, including pension rights and any compensation packages.
Full details of the composition and role of the Remuneration Committee and the Companys compliance with the Code Provisions relating to remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 81.
The Nominations Committee: which has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments of new Directors the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee: which is responsible for formulating and recommending to the Board the Fresnillo Groups policy on health and safety as well as environmental and local community issues.
Full details of the role of this Committee are set out in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 46 to 59.
The Executive Committee: The Executive Committee is led by the Chief Executive and is responsible for the management of the Companys businesses including the implementation of decisions agreed in principle by the Board and all executive management of the operations of the Group within the strategy approved and budget approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration Nominations and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee are available on the Companys website.
72 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT THE BOARD The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established programme of meetings.
At these meetings the Board takes responsibility for the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy and monitors the management of the Groups activities.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and key policies.
A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board committees at meetings for the financial year ended 31 December 2009 is set out below: AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS HSECR BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 5 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting 1 meeting 1 Alberto Baillres 5 5 2 2 1 1 Jaime Lomeln 5 5 1 1 2 Lord Cairns 4 5 3 3 Fernando Ruiz 5 5 5 5 3 3 1 1 Javier Fernndez 5 5 1 1 0 1 Rafael MacGregor 5 5 1 1 Juan Bordes 5 5 Arturo Fernndez 5 5 2 Guy Wilson 4 5 5 5 3 Fernando Solana 4 4 4 4 1 Mr Baillres was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in February 2009 and was only eligible to attend two meetings of that Committee.
2 Lord Cairns and Mr Wilson were unable to attend a Board meeting convened at relatively short notice to consider a commercial matter.
3 Mr Solana was appointed to the Board and Audit Committee in February 2009 and was only eligible to attend four Board and four Audit Committee meetings.
All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
The Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors without the executives present in April 2009.
The Independent Non-executive Directors met to evaluate the performance of the Chairman in October 2009.
BOARD MEMBERSHIP BOARD BALANCE & INDEPENDENCE At the year end the Board consisted of the Chairman, Alberto Baillres, one Executive Director, Jaime Lomeln, Chief Executive officer and eight Non-executive Directors.
Biographical details of each of the Directors can be found on pages 66 to 69 of this Annual Report.
The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive officer are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been specified in writing and agreed by the Board.
There have been no changes to these roles since they were agreed by the Board.
Mr Hector Rangel resigned on 30 January 2009 and Mr Fernando Solana was appointed as an Independent Nonexecutive Director on 18 February 2009.
As Senior Independent Director, Lord Cairns is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer or Head of Investor Relations.
The composition of the Board and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Director and the Senior Independent Director have been structured to ensure that no one individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board.
The Board has considered the independence of all of the Directors and its assessment of the independence of the Non-executive Directors is set out below: INDEPENDENT NOT INDEPENDENT Alberto Baillres Chairman Rafael MacGregor Juan Bordes Arturo Fernndez Lord Cairns Fernando Ruiz Javier Fernndez Guy Wilson Fernando Solana 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP.
Alberto Baillres, Rafael MacGregor, Juan Bordes and Arturo Fernndez are each directors of Peoles and have been appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
Further information concerning the Relationship Agreement is set out in the Directors Report on page 83.
As indicated above, the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
However, Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the successful development of the Fresnillo Group over many years and therefore the Board considers that his continued involvement as its non-executive chairman is vitally important to the Company.
Fernando Ruiz is a retired partner and consultant in the rm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a rm providing professional services to the Company.
Mr Ruiz is not involved in providing any services to the Company on behalf of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. the value of those services is not material to either party.
Guy Wilson was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2008 having retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditors and reporting accountants on 30 June 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
As required by the Code, the Board has considered the independence of Fernando Ruiz and Guy Wilson and has concluded that they are both independent in character and judgement.
The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment for periods of three years and the time commitment required from each Non-executive Director is set out in their letter of appointment.
The fees payable to each Non-executive Director are set by the Board in accordance with its Schedule of Reserved Matters.
None of the Directors holds any appointments to the board of any other FTSE100 quoted company.
The Executive Director has a service contract of no xed term.
Further details concerning the Executive Directors service agreement are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 79.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment and service agreement are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
In accordance with the Articles of Association each Director shall retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
At the annual general meeting held in 2009 all the Directors offered themselves for election having been appointed during the year.
None of the Directors will be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS I]Z Yjin id Vkd Y ediZci Va Xdc Xih VcY id Y hXadhZ hjX] h ijVi dch [dg Vji]dg hVi dc Wn i]Z 7dVgY VgZ i]Z personal responsibility of each Director.
Each Director ensures that they keep these duties under review and inform the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions, such as new directorships taken on.
In September 2008, each Director completed a Directors List which set out details of situations where each Y gZXidgh ciZgZhih bVn Xdc Xi l i] i]dhZ d[ i]Z 8dbeVcn h ijVi dcVa Xdc Xih # 6i i]Vi i bZ!
i]Z 7dVgY Xdch YZgZY i]Z h ijVi dcVa Xdc Xih d[ ZVX] Y gZXidg c ijgc VcY Vji]dg hZY i]Zb hjW ZXi id XZgiV c egdXZYjgVa XdcY i dch c i]Z ZkZci i]Vi i]ZgZ lVh V a `Za ]ddY i]Vi XZgiV c h ijVi dcVa Xdc Xih ldjaY WZXdbZ VXijVa XdcXih# Cd 9 gZXidg kdiZY c gZheZXi d[ i]Z Vji]dg hVi dc d[ ] h dlc h ijVi dcVa Xdc Xih# 9jg c '%%.
i]ZhZ 9 gZXtors Lists have been resubmitted by each Director as at 30 June 2009 and 31 December 2009 and the Board has been able to authorise the minor update changes identied in their resubmitted lists.
In addition, Directors are gZb cYZY Vi i]Z WZ cc c d[ ZVX] 7dVgY bZZi c id cdi [n Vcn [jgi]Zg Xdc Xih id i]Z 7dVgY# BOARD PROCESS It is the Chairmans responsibility to provide timely information to the Board supported by the Company Secretary.
Board papers are circulated in a timely manner and all proposals presented to the Board for its consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters are first considered and approved by the Executive Committee.
In so doing, the Executive Committee aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in section 172, Companies Act 2006.
Matters that purely require Executive Committee approval are reported to the Board and matters that require approval under the Schedule of Reserved Matters, are considered by the Executive Committee and then presented to the Board for deliberation and approval.
All Directors have received briengs from the Companys advisers, including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman ensures that the induction and training processes for new Directors continues to be developed.
Mr Solana was presented with a briefing pack and an induction on his appointment to the Board in February 2009.
The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved to the Board.
A procedure has been established to enable Directors to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in relevant circumstances.
74 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT During the year an evaluation of performance of the individual Directors and the Board was carried out by way of anonymous questionnaires that were collated by the Company Secretary and then reviewed and discussed by the Board in October 2009.
The responses to all questions relating to the performance of the Board were very positive.
Suggestions for improvement included that the Board should spend more time on strategy and also focus more on monitoring risk on an ongoing basis.
These suggestions will be considered further during 2010.
Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance cover is in place and a review of the cover, particularly by reference to the mining peer group among the London-listed companies, was carried out in July 2009.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Fernando Ruiz.
The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are, therefore, Independent Non-executive Directors.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate for approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
When making an appointment, the Committee is required by its terms of reference to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Nominations Committee is also responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition, including skills knowledge and experience, of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regards to any changes.
Such a review was carried out at the time of Mr Solanas appointment.
The Nominations Committee considers succession planning for Directors and other senior executives from time to time.
The Nominations Committee has met once in the year to consider the appointment of Mr Solana and other matters in accordance with the terms of reference.
The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee were reviewed during the year.
The Nominations Committee has not retained any external consultants to assist it in its work.
In considering future appointments to the Board, the Nominations Committee will consider the balance and structure of the Board and the commitments made by the Board under the Relationship Agreement.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee, at 31 December 2009, were Guy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz and Fernando Solana.
Guy Wilson was a partner at Ernst & Young prior to his retirement on 30 June 2008.
He is therefore considered to have recent and relevant financial, auditing and accounting experience.
The role of the Audit Committee, among other things, is to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance.
The Audit Committee met five times in the year to carry out its responsibilities as described in its terms of reference.
Accordingly the Audit Committee has reviewed the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts including the preliminary results announcement before recommending their approval by the Board.
As part of this review, the Audit Committee reviewed the accounting policies, the clarity of disclosure, compliance with the rules of the London Stock Exchange, the Listing Rules and other legal and regulatory requirements and all material information presented in the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of the Companys auditors before making a recommendation to the Board to be put to shareholders.
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors and reviewed the terms of engagement of the external auditors at its meeting in August 2009.
The effectiveness of the external auditor was reviewed by the Audit Committee in April 2009.
In addition as part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee has reviewed the findings of the external auditor, reviewed management representation letters, approved audit plans and timescales and reviewed policies on the independence of the external auditor.
Prior to recommending the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit Committee conducted a review of the independence of Ernst & Young LLP.
Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the year are shown at note 29 to the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor.
The engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit, assurance, taxation and certain advisory services is pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services above US$150,000 is subject to the specic approval of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has received presentations and updates from the Group Internal Audit Department throughout the year concerning their workplan during the year.
A workplan for 2010 has also been presented and approved by the Audit Committee.
Regular update reports on the internal audit reviews conducted by the Internal Audit Department are also received by the Audit Committee.
Where necessary the Audit Committee will seek assurance that any serious weaknesses have been addressed.
During the year the Audit 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP.
Committee has been briefed on internal audits conducted during that period but none have required any further action on the part of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements by which employees may raise concerns about improprieties concerning financial or other matters at its meeting in December 2009 and it is satisfied with the adequacy of those arrangements.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control which includes risk management and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
It is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee reviews these systems on an annual basis.
The day to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee is supported in this task by the Internal Audit Department.
On behalf of the Board and the Executive Committee, the Internal Audit Department has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
Risks have been classied into a number of categories for management purposes.
Based on these risk categories the Audit Committee has sought assurance from the Executive Committee and the Internal Audit Department on the Groups system of internal control.
The basis upon which assurance has been sought includes: ciZgcVa VjY i gZk Zlh!
cXajY c c[dgbVi dc iZX]cdad n gZk Zlh!
GZk Zlh jcYZgiV`Zc Wn i]Z ZmiZgcVa VjY idg# Egd gZhh l i] i]Z beaZbZciVi dc d[ Xdcigdah VcY egdXZYjgZh beaZbZciZY jcYZg i]Z : cVcX Va GZedgi c Plan adopted at the time of the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange.
GZegZhZciVi dch dWiV cZY [gdb deZgVi dcVa VcY [jcXi dcVa bVcV ZbZci# The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, internal control systems and the half year and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board.
It also reviews the scope and results of the audit with the external auditors and the schedule of work for the Internal Audit Department for the year.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
There are a number of components to the system of internal controls within the Company and these are detailed as follows: 6 g h` bVig m Xdci cjZh id WZ bdc idgZY VcY gZk ZlZY Wn i]Z :mZXji kZ 8dbb iiZZ VcY ciZgcVa 6jY i Department.
6 [gVbZldg` d[ igVchVXi dc VcY Zci in aZkZa Xdcigdah id egZkZci VcY YZiZXi bViZg Va Zggdg VcY adhh# 6 WjY ZiVgn VcY eZg dY X gZedgi c gZk Zl egdXZhh eZg[dgbZY Wn i]Z :mZXji kZ 8dbb iiZZ# 6 YdXjbZciZY higjXijgZ d[ YZaZ ViZY Vji]dg i Zh VcY VeegdkVah [dg igVchVXi dc VcY ckZhibZci YZX h dch!
including any with related parties.
Egd gZhh c beaZbZci c i]Z Xdcigdah VcY egdXZYjgZh jcYZg i]Z : cVcX Va GZedgi c EaVc egZeVgZY Vi i]Z time of the Companys listing is being monitored.
6 egd gVbbZ d[ ciZgcVa VjY i gZk Zlh ]Vh WZZc YZkZadeZY VcY XdcYjXiZY Wn i]Z gdjeh ciZgcVa 6jY i Department.
The Board have, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls taking account of the matters summarised above.
On the basis of this review, the Board considers that the measures that have been implemented over the past 18 months to create an appropriate risk management framework are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The Board is committed to the continued development of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining best practice levels of risk management and internal control for international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
76 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company has an ofce in London and a Head of Investor Relations who is based in London.
The Group has implemented a strong investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders and analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group and to respond to any queries the shareholders may have.
The Head of Investor Relations in London is the first point of contact with investors maintaining ongoing relations with analysts and major shareholders through telephone calls and meetings.
The Company also uses a full programme of mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Ofce in Mexico City.
The Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer, the Director of Exploration and the Director of Operations participate in the major roadshows to meet with analysts and shareholders.
The Head of Investor Relations, supported by the Chief Executive Ofcer, gives a report at each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
The Companys second annual general meeting will be held on 28 May 2010.
The business of the Annual General Meeting will be conducted in accordance with the provisions D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 of the Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of each of the board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
Lord Cairns SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD 1 March 2010 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP.
