G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review Governance 47 Financial statements Corporate governance statement Shareholder information The boards statement on the companys corporate governance performance is based on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 the Combined Code which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website http: www.
The Combined Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the codes main principles, and to confirm that they comply with the codes provisions or, where they do not comply, to provide a careful and clear explanation of their non-compliance which aims to illustrate how their actual practices are consistent with the codes principles and contribute to good governance.
a Application of Combined Code principles The board comprises the non-executive chairman Alf Duch-Pedersen, a non-executive deputy chairman Lord Condon, four other non-executive directors, the chief executive Nick Buckles, the chief financial officer Trevor Dighton and the chief operating officer Grahame Gibson.
The board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
The senior independent director is Lord Condon.
All continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the board and will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows: Audit Committee Mark Seligman chairman from May 2009 Lord Condon joined November 2009 Thorleif Krarup chairman until May 2009 Bo Lerenius Remuneration Committee Lord Condon chairman Mark Elliott Bo Lerenius Mark Seligman Nomination Committee Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman Lord Condon Mark Elliott Mr Seligman, who is the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience, became chairman of the Audit Committee following the companys Annual General Meeting on 26 May 2009, taking over that role from Mr Krarup, who remains a member of that committee.
Lord Condon joined the Audit Committee in November 2009.
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available on the companys website.
It is intended that the chairmen of the three committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting which is an important opportunity for communication between the board and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
Following each resolution at the Annual General Meeting, the meeting is informed of the numbers of proxy votes cast and the same information is subsequently published on the companys website.
There were nine board meetings during the year ended 31 December 2009.
One of the meetings was also an extended, two-day board and strategy session, at which presentations on the development and implementation of the companys strategy were made to the board by senior executives.
One of the board meetings was held at a subsidiary companys offices in the USA to enable the board to have greater interaction with some of the businesses in one of the groups main markets.
All members attended each of the board meetings except that Mr Dighton and Mr Elliott were each absent from one meeting and Mr Krarup was absent from two.
Non-executive directors also attended meetings and conferences held by various regions and business units in order to gain a closer understanding of the group.
At each meeting, the board receives reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company secretary, an HR report which includes summaries of developments on HR and health and safety matters and an investor relations report which includes analysts reviews and any comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
After meetings of the board committees, the respective committee chairmen report to the board on the matters considered by each committee.
In addition, the board receives monthly management accounts.
There are nine board meetings scheduled for the current year, including a one-day strategy review session.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which was reviewed and revised during the year and is now set out under twelve separate categories: strategy and management: structure and capital: financial reporting and controls: internal controls: contracts: communication: board membership and other appointments: remuneration: delegation of authority: corporate governance matters: policies: and other.
By way of example, board approval is required for major investments, including the acquisition or disposal of any business worth more than 5m: any changes to the groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 48 Corporate governance statement continued a Application of Combined Code principles continued Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any situations which apply to them as a result of which they have or may have an interest which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the company.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, the board has authorised such matters.
The affected directors did not vote when their own positions were considered.
Where the board deemed it appropriate, such authorisation was given subject to certain conditions.
The board reviews such matters on a regular basis.
In the year under review, the Audit and Remuneration Committees both met four times and the Nomination Committee met three times.
All members attended each of the meetings except for Mr Elliott who was absent from one meeting of the Nomination Committee.
The performance of the board and its committees has been evaluated using a questionnaire-based self-assessment process which was introduced and informed by the external consultancy which conducted an evaluation of the performance of the board and the boards committees in 2008.
In addition the chairman held individual meetings with each of the directors to discuss their performance and their view of the board as a whole.
Reports generated by this process have been considered by the board, the chairman and by each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and a number of actions have been agreed as a means of improving performance.
As a result, more presentations will be made to the board by operational managers, even more board participation in strategy development will be facilitated and the board will give greater direction to the board committees.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that it should provide more explanation of its activities and the Audit Committee is to give greater guidance on the issues which are to be presented to it.
The chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present and a review of the performance of the chairman by the non-executive directors, without the chairman present, was led by the senior independent director.
The chief executive and the chief financial officer hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings.
It is intended that all the directors will attend the companys Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for making recommendations on board appointments and on maintaining a balance of skills and experience on the board and its committees.
During the year it has carefully considered the skills and experience available on the board and concluded that, whilst the current blend provides the right array of knowledge and understanding, the time is right to plan for the future needs of the board.
External search consultants have therefore been engaged to assist with the process of refreshing the non-executive element of the board using a description of the role and capabilities required drawn up by the committee and approved by the board.
The board itself has also given careful consideration to the succession planning process for the groups senior executive management.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by representatives of the group auditor, the chief financial officer, the group financial controller, the head of group internal audit and the company secretary.
The committee considers the groups annual and half-yearly financial statements and any questions raised by the auditor on the financial statements and financial systems.
It also reviews, amongst other matters, the groups financial reporting and internal auditing processes, whistle blowing arrangements, risk management procedures and internal controls.
The Audit Committee has recommended that the board re-appoints the existing external auditor having reviewed its performance of audit services for the company, reports on the performance of the firm as a whole, its independence given the non-audit services it provides to the group and its policy and practice on audit partner rotation, as well as the cost of its services.
The committee will keep the matter of the choice of external auditor under review at regular intervals.
The Audit Committee has established a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services, so as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
Besides the formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultation and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies, general advice on financial reporting standards and corporate tax services.
The auditor is prohibited from providing other services without specific permission from the Audit Committee.
The value of non-audit services provided by the auditor must not exceed the fees charged for the statutory audit, save in the event of a major transformation deal.
The auditor has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is more fully described in the Directors Remuneration Report which appears on pages 50 to 55.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Overview Business review Governance 49 Financial statements Shareholder information b Compliance with provisions of Combined Code The company complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
c Risk management and internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the groups activities are reviewed regularly by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group.
Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the head of group internal audit, are in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board to present significant exposure.
The key features of the groups risk management process, which was in place throughout the year under review and since are: A common risk management framework is used to provide a profile of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of business objectives.
Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
The risk profiles ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
Risk management committees have been established at regional, divisional and group level.
The regional committees meet at least annually and the divisional and group committees meet quarterly.
A standard agenda covering risk and control issues is considered at each meeting and risk profiles are reviewed and updated at each meeting.
Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for each operating company, for most companies at least twice a year, and updated risk profiles are prepared.
Similar exercises are undertaken as part of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The results of the company risk evaluations are assessed by the regional and divisional risk management committees.
The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board in accordance with the internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code, is carried out under the overall supervision of the group risk management committee.
This committee, which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control.
Both the divisional risk management committees and the group risk management committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance from other sources including security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistle blowing activity, and risk and control self-evaluations.
The group has in place robust internal control and risk management systems for financial reporting.
The group has a single global consolidation system which is used for both internal management reporting, budgeting and planning as well as external reporting.
The group has a comprehensive budgeting process with the budget being approved by the board.
Forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
Actual results at business unit, region and group level are reported monthly and variances are reviewed.
Each business has an internal financial review performed annually by a finance team from either region or group to check the accuracy of financial reporting and compliance with the group finance manual.
The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal control system for the year to 31 December 2009 by considering reports from the Audit Committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2009.
By order of the board Peter David Secretary 15 March 2010 Because Wackenhut Services, Inc. WSI is governed through a proxy agreement under which the group is excluded from access to operational information, it is not subject to the same risk management process as is applied to other group companies.
The board has however satisfied itself as to the adequacy of the internal control processes adopted by WSI.
