The GAME Group plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2008-2009 The Board notes that the Chairman has been Corporate governance a Director for more than nine years but considers statement that Peter Lewis makes a signi cant contribution to the Company and that his period of of ce does not impair his independence.
Vivienne Hemming In accordance with Code provision A.
7.2, Company Secretary Peter Lewis will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the principles identi ed in the Combined Code are applied by the Group.
As Company Secretary I am responsible Directors for advising the Board on corporate The Board consists of a Non Executive Chairman, governance and ensuring that Board Peter Lewis, four other Non Executive Directors committees operate effectively.
It is part and three Executive Directors, of which Lisa Morgan of my role to alert the Board to any is Group Chief Executive.
All of the Non Executive developments in the external corporate Directors are considered by the Board to be governance regime.
Each Board agenda independent of management and free of any has a corporate governance slot and relationship which could materially interfere I use this to present to the Board, and with the exercise of their independent judgement.
to facilitate debate, on corporate There is a clear division of responsibility between governance issues.
the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Biographies of Board members appear on page 57.
These indicate the seniority and range There is a commitment to high of business experience, which are essential to standards of corporate governance manage effectively a business of the size and throughout the Group.
The Board complexity of the Group.
con rms that the Company and the Group have complied during the The full Board meets at least six times each year year ended 31 January 2009 with and more frequently where business needs require.
The Board has a schedule of matters the principles set out in Section 1 reserved for its decision, including inter alia of the Combined Code on Corporate statutory matters: approval of financial statements Governance issued in July 2003, as and dividends: appointments and terminations revised in June 2006 the Combined of Directors, of cers and auditors: appointments Code, except where detailed.
of committees and setting of terms of reference: review and approval of Group performance against budgets: approving risk management strategy and material contracts: and determining of authority levels within which management is required to operate.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 58 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 58 2 26 5 09 10:46:37 6 5 09 10:46:37 Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc Corporate governance statement 59 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 There is an agreed procedure for Directors When new members are appointed to the to take independent professional advice Board, they are provided with advice from at the Companys expense.
This is in addition the Company Secretary in respect of their role to the access which every Director has to the and duties as a public company director.
The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Christopher Bell is the Senior Non Executive Board procedures are followed.
Concerns relating to the executive all meetings of the Board and each committee management of the Company or the are taken by the Company Secretary who performance of the other Non Executive ensures that any unresolved concerns of the Directors may be raised with the Senior Non Directors are recorded in the minutes.
The Senior Non Executive Director is also available to shareholders if they Appropriate Directors and Of cers insurance have concerns which contact through the cover is arranged and maintained via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Companys insurance broker, Aon Group, or Finance Director have failed to resolve or for and its terms are reviewed annually.
which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Non Executive Director also makes himself available to listen to the concerns of employees.
Terry Scicluna To enable the Board to function effectively and Chief Operating the Directors to discharge their responsibilities, Of cer full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding speci c matters.
When I joined the Board of The GAME Group plc there had been a number of recent changes in the corporate governance regime.
For instance, the 2006 Balance of Executive and Companies Act was in the process of being implemented and directors duties had Non Executive Directors been codi ed.
There had also been as at 31 January 2009 changes to the directors con icts of interest regime.
The Company Secretarys first step A was to put together an induction pack of all the Boards governance documents B and all the recent Board papers that dealt with corporate governance topics.
She then arranged for a training session with our corporate lawyers, Clifford Chance.
At the same time I followed an in depth business induction, visiting stores and meeting all levels of employees.
I now feel con dent that I not only know the C business through and through, but I am also fully aware of my accountabilities A Chairman 1 to our shareholders.
B Executive Directors 3 C Non Executive Directors 4 Customer focus, evolving market.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 59 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 59 2 26 5 09 10:46:40 6 5 09 10:46:40 The GAME Group plc Corporate governance statement 60 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Appointments to the Board Full details of Directors remuneration and The Board ensures that plans are in place for a statement of the Companys remuneration the orderly succession of appointments to the policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Board and to senior management: taking into Report appearing on pages 70 to 77.
The account the need to maintain an appropriate members of the Remuneration Committee balance of skills.
Appointments to the Board of and the principal terms of reference of the both Executive and Non Executive Directors are Committee appear on page 62. considered by the Nomination Committee.
The recommendations of the Nomination Committee Meetings with Non Executive Directors are ultimately made to the full Board, which The Chairman holds meetings as required considers them before any appointment is with the Non Executive Directors without the made.
The Remuneration Committee considers Executive Directors being present.
any remuneration package before it is offered to a potential appointee.
The members of Board performance evaluation the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination In accordance with the requirements of the Committees are set out on pages 61 to 62.
Combined Code, during the year the Board undertook a formal internal evaluation of its Any Director appointed during the year is own performance and that of its committees required, under the provisions of the Companys and individual Directors.
This review was led by Articles of Association, to retire and seek the Senior Non Executive Director and included election by shareholders at the next Annual an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Articles also require A further review will be conducted during the that one-third of the Directors retire by rotation current financial year.
each year and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors required to retire are those in of ce longest since their previous re-election, and each Director retires at least once every three years.
Individual attendance by Directors at meetings of the Board and of other committees Meetings held from 29 April 2008 to 22 April 2009.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible to Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Director attend attended of meetings attended of meetings attended of meetings attended P eter Lewis 7 7 2 2 Lisa Morgan 7 7 David Thomas 7 7 Terry Scicluna 2 2 Christopher Bell 7 6 3 2 2 2 2 2 Jean-Paul Giraud 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Ishbel Macpherson 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Dennis Woodside 5 5 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 60 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 60 2 26 5 09 10:46:41 6 5 09 10:46:41 Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc Corporate governance statement 61 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Audit Committee The Committee also reviews any matters raised The Audit Committee comprises Ishbel by the auditors.
The Chief Executive and the Macpherson as Chairman, together with Finance Director are invited to attend part Christopher Bell, Jean-Paul Giraud and of each meeting of this Committee, as are the Dennis Woodside.
The auditors have unrestricted access to the members of the Audit Committee, and the Committee ensures that meetings are used as an open avenue of communication Ishbel Macpherson between the external auditors and the Board.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee, the Board has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, with the objective of ensuring that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
This includes, inter alia, assessing As Chair of the Audit Committee I see my all relationships with the audit rm, including role as a critical friend to the Executive their partners and staff: assessing the nature team, both challenging and supporting and level of fees for non-audit services in them in their financial management relation to the audit fee: obtaining con rmation of the business.
In addition to monitoring of independence from the auditors: and the integrity of financial statements and ensuring the appropriateness of the rm announcements, the Committee also as providers for non-audit services.
assesses the effectiveness of the Groups risk management strategies, whistle-blowing The split between audit and non-audit fees policy and internal and external audit for the year under review is disclosed in note processes reporting its findings up to 4 to the financial statements.
fees were principally paid in respect of tax compliance services and are considered by the Audit Committee not to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on request and are published on the Companys website.
The Audit Committees main objectives are, inter alia, to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and any other formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: review signi cant financial reporting judgements contained in such statements or announcements, before submission to, and approval by, the Board, and before clearance by the external auditors: review the Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and review the arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in con dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 61 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 61 2 26 5 09 10:46:42 6 5 09 10:46:42 The GAME Group plc Corporate governance statement 62 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises The Nomination Committee comprises Peter Jean-Paul Giraud as Chairman, together Lewis as Chairman, together with Christopher with Christopher Bell, Ishbel Macpherson and Bell, Jean-Paul Giraud, Ishbel Macpherson Dennis Woodside.
The work of the Remuneration and Dennis Woodside.
Committee is covered further in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 77.
It meets as required and makes recommendations to the Board on all Board and Committee appointments, including the selection of Non Executive Directors.
The terms Jean-Paul Giraud of reference of the Nomination Committee are Chairman of the available on request and are also published Remuneration on the Companys website.
Committee Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the Annual Report and Accounts are explained on pages 67 and 78 respectively and the statement It is essential that the Board is able to of the Directors on going concern appears demonstrate a clear and sensible strategy on page 63. for the remuneration of its Executive Directors and the Committee must weigh external Following the publication of guidance for market forces against the needs and Directors, Internal Control: Guidance for resources of the business.
The structure Directors on the Combined Code, the Board of the reward package is as important con rms that there is an ongoing process for as the amount.
Incentive targets need identifying, evaluating and managing any to be constructed to ensure that the signi cant risks faced by the Group.
This process achievements, for which the Executive has been in place during the 53 weeks ended Directors are rewarded, are aligned to the 31 January 2009 and up to the date of approval needs of the business and the shareholders.
of the accompanying Report and Accounts by the Board.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Copies of Executive Directors service contracts and the terms and conditions of appointment The Board of Directors acknowledges its of the Non Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys of ce during responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness normal business hours.
over financial, operating and risk management controls.
The system of internal control is designed The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on request and are to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can also published on the Companys website.
only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year by reference to budgets, management accounts, cash ow projections and reports from the internal and external auditors, and covers financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
2 213541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 62 13541 GAME REPORT P1-63 n. indd 62 2 26 5 09 10:46:46 6 5 09 10:46:46 Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc Corporate governance statement 63 Annual Report and Accounts continued 2008-2009 The risks facing the Group in each country The Group holds a variety of investor and of operation have been identi ed and the analyst meetings in order to improve the appropriateness of the associated direct financial communitys understanding of the controls and indirect controls have been Group and to introduce investors to a broader assessed.
This risk matrix is reviewed and range of management.
All shareholders can updated on a regular basis.
gain access to these and other presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and other The key procedures that the Directors have information about the Group, on the Groups established to ensure that internal controls website at www.
Holders are effective are commensurate with a group of ordinary shares may attend the Companys of this size, a key control procedure being the AGM at which the Company highlights key day-to-day supervision of the business by the business developments during the year and Directors.
Other internal control procedures and at which shareholders have an opportunity reviews for effectiveness by the Board include to ask questions.
The chairmen of the Audit, the following: Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer any questions from  preparation, maintenance and review of shareholders on the work of their committees.
a Group risk register:  review of financial, operational and The Company con rms that it sends the AGM compliance reports from management: and notice and relevant documentation to all  review of any signi cant issues arising from shareholders at least 20 working days before the the internal and external audits.
Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests The Group has an internal audit function which with the executive management team led by the focuses primarily on the control of cash and Chief Executive.
However, the Board is informed stock losses.
The Audit Committee consider on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, the focus of the function to be appropriate including share price performance, the for the business and operations of the Group.
composition of the shareholder register and City expectations.
Independent research The Audit Committee keeps the scope and is commissioned annually into institutional cost-effectiveness of the external audit under shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The independence and objectivity of Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the external auditors is also considered on the Non Executive Directors make themselves a regular basis, with particular regard to the available to meet with shareholders as required.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review Going concern appears in note 4.
The non-audit fees were The Directors have reviewed the financial principally paid in respect of tax compliance position of the Group and of the Company services and are considered by the Committee and have concluded that there is a reasonable not to affect the auditors independence expectation that the Group and the Company or objectivity.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Communication with shareholders future.
For this reason the Directors continue The Company attaches importance to to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the effectiveness of its communications with the financial statements.
It publishes regular trading statements as well as a full Annual Report.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and the financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and interim results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation in stockbrokers seminars and site visits.
