GKN plc Annual Report 2009 Audit Committee Report the Groups policies and practices Financial reporting Composition concerning business conduct and ethics, The Audit Committee considered a wide The Audit Committee comprises the following including whistleblowing.
range of financial reporting and related independent non-executive Directors, matters in respect of 2009 published results.
biographical details of whom are set out on In the performance of its duties, the For both the half and full year, the Committee pages 40 and 41: Committee has independent access to reviewed any significant areas of judgement the services of Corporate Audit and to the that materially impacted reported results, John Sheldrick Chairman external auditors, and may obtain outside key points of disclosure and presentation Helmut Mamsch professional advice as necessary.
Both the to ensure the adequacy, clarity and Sir Christopher Meyer Head of Corporate Audit and the external completeness of the financial statements, Richard Parry-Jones auditors have direct access to the Chairman and the content of results announcements Michael Turner since his appointment to the of the Committee outside formal Committee prior to their submission to the Board.
It also Board on 1 September 2009 50 meetings.
considered reports from PwC on their review Sir Peter Williams of the 2009 half year report and, in respect The Committee has written terms of reference of the full year, PwCs audit of the financial The Company Secretary acts as secretary to that outline its authority and responsibilities.
statements and other items in the 2009 the Committee.
These are considered annually by the Audit annual report.
Analysis to support the going Committee and any proposed changes concern judgement given on page 27 was A number of Committee members have, in the are referred to the Board for approval.
Boards view, recent and relevant financial Committees current terms of reference are experience as required by the Combined available on GKNs website.
External auditors Code on Corporate Governance.
In particular, Independence John Sheldrick was Group Finance Director Comprehensive briefing papers are prepared The Audit Committee is responsible for of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 until and circulated to Committee members in the development, implementation and his retirement in September 2009 and has advance of each meeting and made available monitoring of the Companys policies on chaired GKNs Audit Committee since 2004. to other Directors.
In order that the Board is external audit.
The policies, designed to kept fully appraised of the Committees work, maintain the objectivity and independence Role the Committee Chairman reports formally on of the external auditors, regulate the The primary role of the Audit Committee, its proceedings at the next following meeting appointment of former employees of the which reports its findings to the Board, of the Board.
external audit firm to positions in the Group is to ensure the integrity of the financial and set out the approach to be taken when reporting and audit processes and the Activities using the external auditors for non-audit maintenance of a sound internal control and Meetings and attendance work.
The Committee is The Committee met on four occasions in responsible for monitoring and reviewing: 2009 timed to coincide with the financial and As a general principle the external auditors reporting cycles of the Company.
Members are excluded from consultancy work and the integrity of the Groups financial attendance at these meetings is set out in the cannot be engaged by GKN for other nonstatements and the significant reporting table on page 48. audit work unless there are compelling judgements contained in them: reasons to do so.
Any proposal to use the the appropriateness of the Groups The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, external auditors for non-audit work must relationship with the external auditors, Finance Director, Head of Corporate be submitted to the Finance Director, via including auditor independence, fees and Audit, the engagement partner of the Group Financial Controller, for approval provision of non-audit services:  LLP PwC and other prior to appointment.
The Finance Director, the effectiveness of the external audit members of senior management attended who is permitted to delegate approval to the process, making recommendations to the meetings by invitation.
The Head of Corporate Group Financial Controller for amounts below Board on the appointment of the external Audit and PwC had the opportunity to 20,000, will, depending on the nature of the auditors: discuss matters with the Committee without service, seek the prior authorisation of the the activities and effectiveness of the any executive management being present Chairman of the Audit Committee.
internal audit function Corporate Audit : at two and three meetings respectively.
In the effectiveness of the Groups internal addition, the members of the Committee control and risk management systems: met separately at the start of each meeting and to discuss matters in the absence of any persons attending by invitation.
com The Committee receives annual confirmation Internal control Whistleblowing from PwC as to their independence and In 2009 the Committee reviewed the results To support the Groups Employee objectivity within the context of applicable of the audits undertaken by Corporate Disclosure Procedures Policy which is regulatory requirements and professional Audit and considered the adequacy of available on GKNs website, GKN operates standards, as well as management managements response to the matters international whistleblowing hotlines.
Run confirmation of compliance with the Groups raised, including the implementation of any by external and independent third parties, policies on the employment of former recommendations made.
It also reviewed the hotlines facilitate the arrangements employees of the external auditors and the and approved the 2010 Corporate Audit whereby employees can make on an use of the external auditors for non-audit programme, including the proposed audit anonymous basis if preferred confidential work.
approach, coverage and allocation of disclosures about suspected impropriety resources.
The effectiveness of Corporate and wrongdoing.
Any matters so reported Effectiveness and reappointment Audit was formally reviewed, taking are investigated and escalated to the Audit 51 The Committee has undertaken its annual into account the views of Directors and Committee as appropriate.
Statistics on the review of the qualification, expertise, senior management on matters such as volume and general nature of all disclosures resources and independence of the external independence, proficiency, resourcing, and made are reported to the Committee on an auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit strategy, planning and methodology.
audit process by: The Committee reviewed regular reports on Performance evaluation reviewing, and approving, PwCs plans control issues of Group level significance, During the year the Committee undertook a for the audit of the Groups 2009 financial including details of any remedial action being formal evaluation of its own performance, statements, the terms of engagement for taken.
It considered reports from Corporate further details on which can be found on the audit and the proposed audit fee: Audit and PwC on the Groups systems of page 46. considering the views of Directors, senior internal control and reported to the Board on management and the PwC engagement the results of its review.
The Committee also On behalf of the Committee partner on PwCs independence, examined reports detailing the Groups actual objectivity, integrity, audit strategy and or anticipated material litigation, monitored its relationship with the Group, obtained compliance with the Groups policy for the by way of interview: and appointment of agents and consultants taking into account information provided which is available on GKNs website, by PwC on their independence and and reviewed the Directors and Company John Sheldrick quality control procedures.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 February 2010 In making its recommendation to the Board Further information on the Groups systems that PwC be reappointed for a further year, of internal control and risk management is the Committee took into account their tenure given on pages 48 and 49. as auditors and considered whether there should be a full tender process.
There were no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2009 can be found in note 3 a iv to the financial statements.
