com Corporate Governance In accordance with the Listing Rules of the reviewing operational and financial circumstances likely to affect the judgement Financial Services Authority, GKN is required performance: of any Director.
to state whether it has complied with all approving major acquisitions, relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of divestments and capital expenditure: The Board meets formally at least eight times the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate reviewing the Groups systems of a year, usually with at least one meeting at a Governance the Code and, where the financial control and risk management: Group operating company.
A 12 month rolling provisions have not been complied with, to ensuring that appropriate management programme of items for discussion by the provide an explanation.
GKN is also required development and succession plans are Board is prepared to ensure that all matters to explain how it has applied the main in place: reserved to the Board and other key issues principles set out in the Code.
The Code reviewing the activities of the three subare considered at appropriate times.
During is published by the Financial Reporting committees of the Executive Committee: the year there are sufficient opportunities for Council and is available on its website at reviewing matters relating to corporate the Chairman to meet with the non-executive 45 www.
social responsibility, including the Directors without the executive Directors being environmental, health and safety present should this be deemed appropriate.
This statement, together with the Audit performance of the Group: Committee report on pages 50 and 51 approving appointments to the Board, The Company maintains appropriate and the Directors remuneration report on to the Executive Committee and to the insurance cover in respect of legal pages 52 to 62, provide a description of position of Company Secretary, and proceedings and other claims against its how the main principles of the Code have approving policies relating to Directors Directors.
Details of indemnities in place been applied within GKN during 2009.
The remuneration and the severance of between the Company and the Directors can Directors statement of compliance with the Directors contracts: and be found in the Directors report on page 43.
Code is given on page 49. ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
Chairman and Chief Executive This statement complies with sub-sections Whilst collectively the Chairman and Chief 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule The Directors responsibility for the Executive are responsible for the leadership 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency preparation of financial statements is of the Company, the Chairmans primary Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
explained on page 63 their confirmation that responsibility is for leading the Board and The information required to be disclosed they consider it appropriate to prepare the ensuring its effectiveness and the Chief by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the accounts for 2009 on a going concern basis is Executive is responsible for running the Directors report on pages 42 and 43 and is given on page 27.
incorporated into this corporate governance statement by reference.
A description of the role of the Board, The other significant current commitments together with that of the Chairman, Chief of the Chairman, Roy Brown, are listed in his The Board of Directors Executive, Senior Independent Director and biography on page 40.
The Board is satisfied The Board is collectively responsible for the Company Secretary, is available on GKNs that his commitments do not unduly restrict success of the Company.
Its role is to provide website and further details of the Boards role his availability to GKN and, in particular, entrepreneurial leadership of the Company in relation to the Groups systems of internal would not do so in the event of GKN being within a framework of prudent and effective control and risk management are given on involved in a major corporate transaction or controls which enables risk to be assessed pages 48 and 49.
Descriptions of the specific other action.
The Board sets the Companys responsibilities which have been delegated strategic aims, ensures that the necessary to the principal Board Committees are given Information and professional financial and human resources are in place on pages 47 and 48. development for the Company to meet its objectives, and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that reviews management performance.
It also Following the appointment of Michael Turner Directors receive accurate, timely and clear sets the Companys values and standards and on 1 September 2009, the Board currently information.
The provision of information to ensures that its obligations to its shareholders comprises five executive and seven nonthe Board was reviewed during the year as including reporting to shareholders on executive Directors including the Chairman.
part of the performance evaluation exercise the Boards stewardship and others are Biographical details of the Directors are given referred to below.
Specific responsibilities on pages 40 and 41.
With the exception of reserved to the Board include: the Chairman, who is presumed under the Comprehensive briefing papers are prepared Code not to be independent, all the nonand circulated to all Directors one week prior setting Group strategy and approving executive Directors are regarded by the Board to scheduled Board meetings.
Directors an annual budget and medium term as independent and the Board does not are continually updated on the Groups projections: consider that there exist any relationships or businesses, the markets in which they 17139 09 03 2010 Proof 25 GKN plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance operate and changes to the competitive Performance evaluation Re-election of Directors and regulatory environment through The Board has undertaken its annual formal The Companys articles of association require briefings to the Board and meetings with evaluation of its own performance and that Directors to seek re-election by shareholders senior executives.
The Chairman usually of its Committees.
The evaluation process at least once every three years.
In addition, arranges for the Board to visit at least one was based on a questionnaire which covered all Directors are subject to re-election by of the Groups business locations each year issues such as Board composition, role shareholders at the first AGM following their to enable the Directors to meet with local and remit, strategy, operational reporting, appointment by the Board.
Any non-executive management and employees and to update stakeholder engagement, and controls and Directors who have served for more than and maintain their knowledge and familiarity risk management.
A number of Directors nine years are subject to annual re-election.
provided their responses to the questionnaire Details of the Directors retiring and seeking through one-to-one discussions with the re-election at the 2010 AGM are given in the On joining the Board, a Director receives Company Secretary, whilst others completed notice of meeting circular.
46 a comprehensive induction pack which it online.
The results of the evaluation and includes background information about recommendations for improvements were Relations with shareholders GKN and its Directors, and details of Board reported to the relevant Committees before GKN is committed to ongoing engagement meeting procedures, Directors duties and the Board as a whole agreed appropriate with shareholders and has a well-established responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN changes.
These included: communication programme based on the shares and a number of other governanceGroups financial reporting calendar.
This is supplemented by a a change in frequency of scheduled programme enables the Directors to gain briefing with the Company Secretary who Board and Executive Committee an understanding of the views and opinions is charged with facilitating the induction of meetings: of its shareholders.
In its communications new Directors both into the Group and as to disbanding of the Chairmans Committee: with shareholders, GKN aims to present a their roles and responsibilities as Directors.
a review of arrangements for the balanced and understandable assessment of The Director meets with the Chief Executive provision of external advice to the the Group.
and with relevant senior executives to be Remuneration Committee: briefed on the general Group strategy and extending circulation of Audit Committee Communication with major institutional each individual business portfolio.
Plant visits papers to executive Directors: shareholders is undertaken as part of GKNs and external training, particularly on matters the addition of a standing item on Board investor relations programme, in which relating to the role of a Director and the role agendas to enable Committee Chairmen non-executive Directors are encouraged to and responsibilities of Board Committees, are to brief the Board on discussions and participate.
This includes presentations of arranged as appropriate.
decisions at Committee meetings: and the full and half year results, and meetings the identification of further training between institutional investors both in the Ongoing training is provided as and when opportunities on matters of relevance to UK and overseas and the Chief Executive, necessary and may be identified in annual Directors in that role and as members of Finance Director, Head of Investor Relations individual performance reviews or on an Board Committees.
and External Communications and other ad hoc basis.
The suitability of external executive Directors.
Periodic meetings courses is kept under review by the Company The individual performance of the Directors with representatives of major institutional Secretary.
Training and development of was also evaluated through one-to-one shareholders, other fund managers and the Directors in 2009 included visits to GKN interviews with the Chairman.
To assist this financial press are also held.
plants on an individual basis, completion of process, a number of assessment areas the first phase of the Mastering Continuous were identified in advance and used as a Feedback is sought by the Companys brokers Improvement Leadership MCIL programme framework for conducting the appraisal after meetings and presentations to ensure by certain executive Directors, and interviews.
Sir Peter Williams, as Senior that the Groups strategy and performance is attendance at external seminars for members Independent Director, led the review by the being communicated effectively and to develop of the Remuneration Committee.
non-executive Directors of the Chairmans further an understanding of shareholder performance, which took into account the views.
This feedback is included in a twiceAll Directors have direct access to the advice views of the executive Directors.
Similarly, yearly report to the Board which also provides and services of the Company Secretary who the views of the other Directors were taken an update on investor relations activity, is tasked with ensuring that the Board is into account by the Chairman in his review of highlights changes in holdings of substantial fully briefed on all legislative, regulatory the Chief Executives performance.
No actions shareholders and reports on share price and corporate governance developments.
In were considered necessary as a result of any movements.
In addition, external brokers addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of of these evaluations.
reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors.
their duties, take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
com The Chairman offers major shareholders Executive Committee Remuneration Committee the opportunity to meet with him to discuss The Executive Committee is tasked with The Remuneration Committee is responsible matters relating to governance and strategy.
leading, overseeing and directing the for approving the terms of service and setting Feedback to the Board is provided by the activities of the Group.
It is responsible for the remuneration of the executive Directors Chairman on any issues raised with him.
The reviewing divisional and Group strategy and the Company Secretary in accordance Senior Independent Director is also available plans, approving and leading the consistent with a remuneration policy which is approved to discuss issues with shareholders where implementation of business and operational annually by the Board.
It is also responsible concerns cannot be addressed through processes, and identifying, evaluating and for determining the fees of the Chairman normal channels of communication.
monitoring the risks facing the Group and and the terms upon which the service of deciding how they are to be managed.
The executive Directors is terminated having Shareholders who attend the AGM are Committee meets formally at least eight regard to a severance policy adopted by the invited to ask questions during the meeting times a year.
Board, and for monitoring the remuneration 47 and to meet with Directors after the formal of senior managers just below Board level.
Details of the The Committee consists of the executive It also prepares for approval by the Board level of proxy votes received are advised Directors, the Group Human Resources the annual report on Directors remuneration to shareholders at the meeting and are Director, the Chief Executive OffHighway pages 52 to 62. published on GKNs website.
and the Company Secretary under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Committee has access to such Written responses are given to letters or information and advice both from within email received from shareholders and The Executive Committee has three subthe Group and externally, at the cost of all shareholders receive, or can access committees consisting of members of senior the Company, as it deems necessary.
It is electronically, copies of the annual and half management: responsible for appointing any consultants in year reports.
The investor relations section of respect of executive Directors remuneration.
GKNs website provides further detail about the Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee is the Group, including share price information, responsible for driving operational best The Committee meets periodically when webcasts and presentations of annual and practice globally through the application required and consists of the independent half year results, other presentations made of Lean business processes: non-executive Directors under the to the investment community, and copies of the Group Technology Strategy Board is chairmanship of Sir Peter Williams.
responsible for development of the Groups technology plan, driving the development Nominations Committee Directors conflicts of interest of appropriate technologies across the The Nominations Committee leads Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors Group and the strengthening of external the process for identifying, and makes have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of relationships including access to sources of recommendations to the Board on, interest with the Company.
As permitted by funding: and candidates for appointment as Directors of the Act, the Companys articles of association the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee the Company and as Company Secretary, enable Directors to authorise actual and has responsibility for developing strategy giving full consideration to succession potential conflicts of interest.
for and providing oversight and direction planning and the leadership needs of the on all matters relating to governance Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Formal procedures for the notification and and compliance, risk management and Board on the composition of the Nominations authorisation of such conflicts have been corporate social responsibility.
Committee and the composition and implemented.
These procedures enable chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration non-conflicted Directors to impose limits Audit Committee Committees.
It keeps under review the or conditions when giving or reviewing The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of structure, size and composition of the Board, authorisation and require the Board to review financial reporting and audit processes and including the balance of skills, knowledge the register of Directors conflicts annually the maintenance of a sound internal control and experience and the independence of and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any and risk management system.
The Committee the non-executive Directors, and makes potential conflicts of interest in relation to meets at least four times a year and consists recommendations to the Board with regard to newly appointed Directors are considered by of all the independent non-executive any changes.
the Board prior to appointment.
Directors under the chairmanship of John Sheldrick.
A report by the Committee on its The Nominations Committee follows BoardBoard Committees activities is given on pages 50 and 51. approved procedures available on GKNs The full terms of reference of the following website in making its recommendations.
It Board Committees are available upon request has access to such information and advice and on GKNs website.
both from within the Group and externally, 17139 09 03 2010 Proof 25 GKN plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance at the cost of the Company, as it deems Directors attendance record necessary.
This may include the appointment The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration of external executive search consultants and Nominations Committees held during 2009 was as follows: where appropriate.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee These procedures were used by the Director 12 meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings 8 meetings Nominations Committee in recommending Roy Brown 12 8 the appointment of Judith Felton as Company Sir Kevin Smith 12 8 Secretary as of 8 May 2009 and Michael Marcus Bryson 12 Turner as a non-executive Director as of Helmut Mamsch 11 2 7 7 1 September 2009.
The Committee engaged Sir Christopher Meyer 10 4 7 7 the services of an external search consultant Andrew Reynolds Smith 12 48 in relation to the latter appointment.
Richard Parry-Jones 11 3 7 7 William Seeger 12 The Committee meets periodically when John Sheldrick 12 4 8 8 required and consists of the non-executive Nigel Stein 12 Directors and the Chief Executive under Michael Turner 3 4 0 1 3 4 3 4 the chairmanship of the Chairman except Sir Peter Williams 12 4 8 8 when the Committee is dealing with the Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment.
appointment of a successor as Chairman when the Senior Independent Director chairs reports formally on an annual basis to the the formulation and deployment of Group the Committee.
Executive Committee and to the Board.
accounting policies and procedures, supported by regular bulletins from the Internal control GKNs enterprise risk management central and divisional finance teams on The Board attaches considerable importance programme facilitates a common, Group-wide the application of accounting standards: to, and acknowledges its responsibility approach to the assessment of risks and the Group and divisional policies governing for, the Groups systems of internal control way in these are monitored, managed and the maintenance of accounting records, and risk management and receives regular controlled.
Risk profiling is undertaken at transaction reporting and key financial reports on such matters.
The Boards policy is plant, divisional and corporate levels using control procedures: to have systems in place which optimise the a software tool which provides a consistent a proprietary internal control monitoring Groups ability to manage risk in an effective set of risk definitions and a common system, GKN Reporting and Integrity and appropriate manner.
approach to probability and impact.
A broad Procedures GRIP, to assess compliance spectrum of risks are considered, including with key financial controls on monthly, The Board has delegated to the Executive those relating to strategy, operational quarterly and annual cycles: Committee responsibility for identifying, performance, financial including credit risk, monthly operational review meetings evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the risk financing and fraud, product engineering which include, as necessary, reviews of Group and for deciding how these are to be and technology, business reputation, internal financial reporting issues and managed.
In addition to formal reviews of risk human resources, health and safety, and financial control monitoring: and management by the Executive Committee, the environment.
Consolidated risk maps ongoing training and development of members are expected to report to the are reviewed by divisional management, the financial reporting personnel.
Committee as necessary the occurrence of Executive Committee, the Audit Committee any material control issues, serious accidents and the Board.
Each year all Group businesses are required or events that have had a major commercial formally to review their business risks and impact, or any significant new risks which A summary of those risks which could have to report on whether there has been any have been identified.
Such matters are a material impact on the Group is given on material breakdown in their internal controls.
reported to the next Board meeting and or pages 30 and 31.
This formal review is supplemented by an Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
interim review conducted at the half year.
The Group also has in place systems Companies also have to confirm annually As part of its remit, the Governance and and procedures for exercising control whether they have complied with statutory Risk Sub-Committee develops strategy for and managing risk in respect of financial and regulatory obligations as well as with the and provides oversight and direction on reporting and the preparation of consolidated policies which support the GKN Code.
all matters relating to risk management.
com The Groups systems and procedures are receiving an annual report, following its The Board has reviewed the effectiveness designed to identify, manage and, where review by the Executive Committee, on of the Groups systems of internal control practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects corporate social responsibility matters, and risk management during the period of the risk of failure to achieve business which includes the environmental, health covered by this annual report.
They are not designed to and safety performance of the Groups that the processes described above, which eliminate such risk, recognising that any operations: and accord with the guidance on internal control system can only provide reasonable and reviewing an annual management appended to the Code the revised Turnbull not absolute assurance against material development and succession plan.
Guidance, have been in place throughout misstatement or loss.
The Executive Committee also reviews that period and up to the date of approval of management development issues at the annual report.
The Board also confirms The review process least annually.
that no significant failings or weaknesses The Board reviews the Groups systems of were identified in relation to the review.
49 internal control and risk management on an The Board receives an annual report from the ongoing basis by: Audit Committee concerning the operation Compliance with the Code of the systems of internal control and risk It is the Boards view that, throughout 2009, setting the strategy of the business at management.
This report, together with the GKN was in compliance with all relevant both Group and divisional level and, reviews by the Board during the year of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
within the framework of this, approving matters described above, enables the Board an annual budget and medium term to form its own view on the effectiveness of projections.
Central to this exercise is the systems.
a review of the risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps being The Audit Committee is responsible for taken to manage these: reviewing the ongoing control processes, and reviewing on a regular basis operational the actions undertaken by the Committee to and financial performance and discharge this responsibility are described updated forecasts for the current year.
in the Audit Committees report on pages 50 Comparisons are made with budget and 51. and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to optimise To assist it in this role the Committee liaises operational and financial performance: closely with the corporate audit department retaining primary responsibility for which, using a risk-based audit programme, acquisition and divestment policy, and reviews and tests the systems, controls, the approval of major capital expenditure, processes, procedures and practices across major contracts and financing the Group.
The Head of Corporate Audit, arrangements.
Below Board level there are who reports directly to the Finance Director, clearly defined management authorities meets regularly with the Chairman of the for the approval of capital expenditure, Audit Committee, the Group Chairman and major contracts, acquisitions, investments the Chief Executive.
The departments reports and divestments, together with an are seen by the relevant members of the established framework for their appraisal, Executive Committee and are summarised which includes a risk analysis and quarterly for the Audit Committee.
The post-implementation plan and, where resolution of any control issues raised by appropriate, a post-acquisition review: Board members or in reports reviewed by the keeping under review the Groups Audit Committee is discussed in Committee pension fund arrangements and receiving with management.
reports on the Groups treasury activities, having approved the operating policies and controls for this function, and on matters relating to taxation: performing at least annually a review of the Groups insurance and risk management programmes: 17139 09 03 2010 Proof 25
