60 Corporate governance Corporate governance framework BOARD Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 9 Independent Non-Executive Directors Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Chief Executive 5 Independent 5 Independent Non-Executive 3 Independent Non-Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors Directors and the Chairman Directors and the Chairman Finance Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Administration Executive and Non-Executive 4 Independent Non-Executive & Transactions Committee CET Directors Directors and the Chairman Directors and CET Members Key Board Committees Management Committee Current membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
Corporate Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Sir Christopher Gent M C C Professor Sir Roy Anderson M Dr S Burns M Mr L Culp M M Sir Crispin Davis C M Sir Deryck Maughan M M Mr J Murdoch M M Dr D Podolsky M M Mr T fide Swaan C M Sir Robert Wilson M M M Key: C Chairman M Member GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 61 Corporate governance Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board.
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each Committee.
The current full terms of reference of each Committee may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Governance section of the companys website.
No of meetings Committee Report Committee Role and Terms of Reference Membership comprises per year on page Audit & Risk Reviews the financial and internal reporting Independent Non- 4 6769 process, the system of internal controls, the Executive Directors identification and management of risks and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
Remuneration Determines the terms of service and remuneration Independent Non- 4 7390 of the Executive Directors and members of the CET Executive Directors and, with the assistance of external independent and the Chairman advisers, it evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive remuneration policy.
The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
2 70 Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of Independent Nonthe Board and appointment of members to the Executive Directors Board and the CET, and makes recommendations and the Chairman to the Board as appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of succession to the Board and Senior Management.
3 Corporate Provides a Board-level forum for the regular Independent Non- 71 Responsibility review of external issues that have the potential Executive Directors for serious impact upon the Groups business and and the Chairman reputation.
The Committee is also responsible for oversight of GSKs worldwide donations and community support.
Reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, Finance Executive and NonAs necessary the Annual Report and Form 20-F, and convening Executive Directors of the AGM, together with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
It also approves certain major licensing and capital transactions and changes to the Groups Investment Instrument and Counterparty Limits.
As necessary Corporate Reviews and approves matters in connection with Executive and NonAdministration the administration of the Groups business and Executive Directors, & Transactions certain corporate transactions.
CET members and the Company Secretary GSK Annual Report 2009
