68 Corporate governance Other attendees at Committee meetings: Financial & accounting experience CEO Mr Tom fide Swaan Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO until CFO 31st December 2005 Chairman Determined by the Board to be the Audit Committee Financial Expert, as defined by the General Counsel Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Head of Audit & Assurance Company Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer Sir Deryck Maughan A Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. Head of Global Internal Audit, as appropriate KKR and Chairman of KKR Japan External Auditors.
Former Chairman & CEO of Citigroup International and Vice Chairman of The Committees main responsibilities include: Citigroup Inc.
Reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting Former Chairman and Co-Chief Executive process Officer of Salomon Smith Barney Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements Former Chairman and Chief Executive Evaluating the system of internal control and identifying and Officer of Salomon Brothers Inc. managing risks, including in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts Sir Robert Wilson Economist, and former Non-Executive Overseeing activities of each of the Groups compliance Chairman of The Economist Group and audit functions and overseeing compliance with laws, Chairman of BG Group plc regulations and ethical codes of practice.
Retired from Rio Tinto in 2003 where he held Senior Management positions culminating in The Committees oversight role requires it to address regularly the his appointment as Executive Chairman relationships between management and the internal and external auditors and understand and monitor the reporting relationships and tiers of accountability between them.
Scientific expertise The Committee receives regular reports from members of the Professor Sir Roy A world renowned medical scientist with CET and senior managers covering the key risk management and Anderson advanced knowledge of infectious disease compliance activities of the Group, including those covering R&D, epidemiology manufacturing, sales and marketing and corporate functions.
Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology Further details of the reporting framework to the Committee are in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, set out on pages 65 to 67 Internal control framework.
London Fellow of the Royal Society In December 2009 the Committees terms of reference were Foreign Associate Member of the Institute amended to reflect its role in overseeing the identification and of Medicine at the US National Academy management of risk under the new assurance-based audit of Sciences framework referred to on pages 66 to 67.
At the same time Foreign Associate Member of the French the name of the Audit Committee was changed to the Audit & Academy of Sciences Risk Committee.
Former Rector of Imperial College, London Qualifications of Audit & Risk Committee Members Former Chief Scientific Adviser at the Ministry Committee members, with the exception of Professor Sir Roy of Defence in the UK Anderson and Dr Podolsky, bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the Committees work.
Members have Dr Daniel Podolsky A world renowned researcher with past employment experience in either finance or accounting roles advanced knowledge of underlying or comparable experience in corporate activities.
Professor Sir mechanisms of disease and new therapies Roy and Dr Podolskys backgrounds as world renowned medical for gastrointestinal disorders scientists and researchers enable them to bring scientific expertise President of the University of Texas to the Committees deliberations.
Southwestern Medical Centre and Professor of Internal Medicine Member, Institute of Medical National Academy of Sciences Former Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School Former Chief Academic Officer, Partners Healthcare GSK Annual Report 2009 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Business review P06P53 Governance and remuneration P54P90 Financial statements P91P182 Shareholder information P183P204 69 Corporate governance In 2009, the Committee worked to a structured programme of The Committee has primary responsibility for making a activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to re-appointment and removal of the external auditors by annually coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: assessing the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
External auditors reported on all critical accounting In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making policies, significant judgements and a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, practices used by the Group, alternative the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance accounting treatments which had been against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, discussed with management and their at the beginning of each years audit.
As part of this process, the resultant conclusion, material written Committee considers feedback on the prior years external audit communications with management and gathered through a survey facilitated by the auditors client service any restrictions on access to information review team, which is independent of the engagement team that undertook the audit work.
The survey seeks feedback from a CFO reported on the financial performance of number of sources, including certain members of the Board who the company and on technical financial were involved in the audit process and the financial management and accounting matters team at corporate and business unit level.
General Counsel reported on material litigation Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors Company Secretary reported on corporate governance and the Committee considers cost comparisons to ensure that it is fair & Corporate on the activities undertaken by the ROCC and appropriate for GSK.
There are no contractual obligations that Compliance Officer restrict the Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm as external auditors to the Group.
 LLP Heads of audit and the majority of the Heads of these groups have remained in place as auditors since the Groups inception in assurance and the reported on their audit scope, annual December 2000.
Groups compliance coverage, audit resources and on the and audit groups results of audits conducted throughout In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which the year detail the relevant UK legislative, regulatory and professional requirements relating to external auditors and evaluates Company Secretary, reported on matters that affected the reports from the external auditors on their compliance with the as Chairman of quality and timely disclosure of financial requirements, on the safeguards that have been established and the Disclosure and other material information to the on their own internal quality control procedures.
Consideration Committee Boar d, to the public markets and is also given by the Committee to the need to include the risk of to shareholders.
This enabled the the withdrawal of the external auditors from the market in its risk Committee to review the clarity and evaluation and planning.
completeness of the disclosures in the published annual financial statements, Where the external auditors provide non-audit services, the interim reports, quarterly and preliminary Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are results announcements and other formal safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Committee announcements relating to financial for such services.
These services may include audit services, auditperformance prior to approval by related services, tax services and other services.
detailed as to the particular service or categories of services, and is subject to a specific budget.
The Audit & Risk Committee, management, internal auditors and The external auditors and management report regularly to the the full Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance corporate accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
The serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-byinternal auditors.
This facilitates the necessary independence from case basis.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out in management and encourages the external and internal auditors to Note 9 to the financial statements, Operating profit.
communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
In 2009, the Committee met both collectively and separately with the The guidelines set out in the companys policy on engaging the external auditors and the Head of Audit and Assurance, and the external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining Corporate Compliance Officer without members of management that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a being present.
suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are not threatened or compromised: and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No waivers to the Code were made in 2009.
