Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Governance The Board is committed to Our devolved structure maintaining the highest standards of Because of our devolved management corporate governance.
The Combined structure, local management throughout Code of Corporate Governance the Group are empowered to operate states that good corporate governance our companies as autonomous business should contribute to better company units, whilst working together to share performance by helping a board experience and expertise around the discharge its duties in the best interests Group.
We believe that this structure, as of the shareholders.
This section of illustrated on page 45, enables the the report describes how Go-Ahead Group to be managed in a particularly achieves this, including statements of effective way.
For example, many how the Company complies with the aspects of the Groups day-to-day Combined Code of Corporate operations report through operating Governance.
company senior management directly into the Board through the Group The composition and effectiveness Chief Executive and the Group of Go-Aheads Board is a key element Finance Director: It is our belief that in achieving the Groups long term corporate performance.
We believe The Executive Directors sit on the good governance will that our Board, which comprises five board of each operating company members, enables us to operate and meet formally with local senior facilitate efficient, effectively, with the appropriate balance management each month.
As each of skills and experience.
The relatively effective and operating company is a separate legal small size of our Board is appropriate in entity, and because of the autonomous entrepreneurial the context of our devolved nature of the business units, minutes management structure and does not of each meeting are recorded.
management that can compromise the needs of the business.
The Executive Directors hold regular Importantly, the Board is able to deliver shareholder meetings with the Managing Directors operate cost effectively for of all of the operating companies the its shareholders.
Chief Executive Group to facilitate While the Board delegates some the sharing of experience and best of its responsibilities to the Audit, practice across operations.
Remuneration and Nomination The Executive Directors meet on a Committees, it still retains full Board monthly basis with the senior responsibility for a number of key managers who are responsible for the areas such as health and safety, key centralised Group functions the corporate social responsibility and risk ExecutiveTeam Group which management.
The Board feels that it is include company secretarial, finance, fundamental that the Board as a whole pensions, properties and services, is involved in decision making in these procurement and technology.
areas and this hands-on approach has served the business well over previous In addition, there are a number of Group years.
forums that are held on a regular basis and which consider finance, engineering, health and safety, and energy matters.
These key forums, which report directly 44 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 to the Executive Directors, enable Chairman of the Audit Committee more formal annual performance representatives from all operating In conjunction with the appointment evaluation process we have in place companies to share best and emerging of Andrew Allner as a Non-Executive see page 49.
It is our belief that practice, to seek synergies and cost Director in October 2008, the Board good governance will facilitate savings, to improve quality and to achieve were also pleased to announce efficient, effective and entrepreneurial economies of scale wherever possible.
Andrews appointment to the position management that can deliver of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
shareholder value over the longer Key changes this year This represents a change to the term, and I believe the Go-Ahead The Board of Go-Ahead reviews the previous constitution, and historic nonBoard is successful in its endeavours way the Group is managed each year compliance with the Combined Code, in this regard.
against best practice corporate where the Chairman of the Company governance.
Following such a review was also the Chairman of the Audit during the year, we were pleased to Committee.
While the Board still announce two important changes, considers the attendance of the which we believe demonstrate our Company Chairman at Audit Sir Patrick Brown, commitment to good corporate Committee meetings to be important Chairman governance and further improves our in order to ensure that all members of 2 September 2009 compliance with the Combined Code: the Board are equally aware of any issues and the detail behind them, such Senior Independent Director attendance is now by invitation only.
The Board was pleased to announce the appointment of Rupert Pennant-Rea While there are still two provisions of who was appointed as a Non-Executive the Combined Code where we do not Director of the Board in October 2002 comply, in relation to the constitution as Senior Independent Director in of the Audit and Remuneration October 2008.
This represents a change Committees, the Board has again to the previous constitution, and historic considered these areas diligently during non-compliance with the Combined the year and is of the view that there Code, where no Senior Independent are sound business reasons for Director was appointed.
While the continued non-compliance at the Executive Directors aim to ensure current time see page 46. effective communication with We are pleased to be able to shareholders and investors, if contact demonstrate the Boards commitment through these channels has failed to to good practices of corporate resolve any concerns, or such contact governance through constant reis not appropriate, shareholders and evaluation of the Board, its structure investors can contact the Senior and performance, augmented by the Independent Director.
Board and management structure The Go-Ahead Group plc Board of Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Committee Committee Committee Directors Operating Chief Executive Group Group Group Group Company Executive Team Finance Engineering Health & Energy Boards Group Group Forum Forum Safety Forum Forum The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued C. 3.1 -The Audit Committee should be made page 42.
All the Directors were members up of at least three independent NonCompliance with the of the Board throughout the financial year, Executive Directors with the exception of Andrew Allner who Combined Code The Audit Committee currently comprises was appointed with effect from 24 the two Non-Executive Directors.
At the October 2008 to replace Christopher The Board confirms that the Company start of the financial year, the Committee Collins who retired following the Annual has been in full compliance throughout comprised the Non-Executive Chairman General Meeting on 23 October 2008. the financial year with the main principles and both Non-Executive Directors, The Board holds a minimum of seven of the Combined Code published in June however, following the appointment of scheduled meetings a year, with the Group 2008 the Combined Code.
The Andrew Allner as Chairman of the Audit Company Secretary in attendance.
Company has also complied with all of Committee in October 2008, the Additional meetings are held as and when the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Chairman of the Company now only required.
The Board has delegated specific Combined Code, with the following attends meetings at the invitation responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration exceptions: of the Committee.
and Nomination Committees, each of The Board is of the opinion that the Audit which has terms of reference which detail A.
3.3 - One of the independent NonCommittees composition enables the their authority and duties.
The Board has a Executive Directors should be appointed as Board to comply with the applicable main formal schedule of matters reserved to it the Senior Independent Director principle of the Combined Code in that it for decision see page 47.
Following the appointment of Rupert has formal and transparent arrangements Pennant-Rea as Senior Independent The Board also maintains a Board for considering how the financial reporting Director in October 2008, Go-Ahead is Procedures Manual, prepared in response and internal control principles are applied now fully compliant with this provision.
This includes and for maintaining an appropriate formal procedures for the working of the B.
2.1 -The Remuneration Committee should relationship with the Companys auditors Board and its Committees, delegated be made up of at least three independent see Audit Committee report on page 51. authorities, the timely provision of Non-Executive Directors and the Company Summary of compliance appropriate information and the duties and Chairman should not chair the Committee We have explained above the two responsibilities of Directors, including The Board has reviewed the terms provisions of the Combined Code with standards of conduct and compliance.
of reference of the Remuneration which we do not comply.
The Board, having Committee during the year, including its In addition to Board and Committee considered these areas diligently during the constitution and chairmanship, and meeting attendance, the Non-Executive year, is of the view that its composition, and continues to believe that, due to the small Directors are encouraged to update their that of its Committees, are appropriate for size of the Board, it is appropriate for the skills, knowledge and familiarity with the the application of good principles of Committee to comprise of the NonCompany in order to competently carry corporate governance within the business Executive Chairman and the two out their responsibility to Go-Aheads and relevant for the size and complexity of Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is also shareholders.
During the year, the the Group.
The Board encourages all of the view that the Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Board visited each shareholders to put their views to the who was considered independent on operating company, in addition to attending Company and enter into dialogue if they appointment, remains the most most meetings of the Chief Executive require any further information on the appropriate person to chair the Group.
Andrew Allners induction to the Companys position as outlined.
This can be Remuneration Committee.
This Board also included site visits to each done by contacting the Group Company constitution has been in place throughout operating company and meetings with key Secretary at the Companys Registered the financial year, although Christopher advisors see page 49.
Collins resigned from the Committee in and the Non-Executive Directors attend October 2008 and was replaced by A copy of the Combined Code published the Groups annual Senior Management Andrew Allner independent Nonin June 2008 is available on the Financial Conference each year, enabling them to Executive Director.
review and discuss the Groups strategy uk corporate combinedcode cfm.
with senior managers from across the It is the Boards view that the Group.
Remuneration Committees composition enables the Board to comply with the Responsibility for the operation of Group applicable main principle of the Combined companies, implementing Group strategy in Board organisation Code in that it has a formal and accordance with the strategy agreed by the transparent procedure for developing and structure Board and achievement of objectives is policy on executive remuneration and for delegated to the Group Chief Executive fixing the remuneration packages for and Group Finance Director.
The Executive individual Directors see the Directors The Board and its role Directors meet regularly with the senior Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 58.
The Board is made up of the Nonmanagement and staff in the Groups In addition to this, no Director is involved Executive Chairman, two Non-Executive operating companies, both formally via the in deciding his own remuneration, also a Directors one of whom is the Senior monthly board meetings, and less formally requirement of the Combined Code.
Independent Director and two Executive on a regular basis.
Directors the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
The Directors biographies can be found on 46 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 meetings held to consider matters arising 12 Approval of the Board Procedures Schedule of matters reserved before the next scheduled Board meeting.
Manual including the Conflicts of for the Board The Chairman and Non-Executive Interest Policy, the division of 1 Approval of the Groups strategy, Directors periodically meet without the objectives, values and overall responsibilities between the Executive Directors being present.
Chairman and the Chief Executive The agenda for each Board meeting is set by and this Schedule of Matters 2 Approval of the Companys Annual the Chairman, in consultation with the reserved for the Board.
Report and Accounts, Directors Group Chief Executive.
Detailed briefing Remuneration Report, Turnbull 13 Responsible for establishing papers in relation to the business to be Statement and HalfYear Reports.
Committees of the Board, approving conducted at each meeting are circulated to their terms of reference, reviewing the Board at least one week before each 3 Approval of any interim dividend and their activities and where appropriate, meeting and individual Board members have recommendation of the final dividend.
direct access to the Executive Directors and 4 Approval of the Notice of Annual the Group Company Secretary should they 14 Approval of all minutes of Board and General Meeting and the resolutions wish to receive additional information on any Committee meetings.
to shareholders therein, including the of the items on the agenda.
recommendation for the 15 Responsible for oversight of internal In accordance with the changes to the appointment, re-appointment or control, risk management, health and Companys Articles of Association removal of the Auditors.
safety matters and corporate social approved at the 2008 Annual General responsibility.
5 Approval of all other circulars, listing Meeting, the Board has established robust particulars, and corresponding procedures for ensuring that their powers documentation sent to shareholders.
Board meetings to authorise conflicts are operated Directors are expected, wherever possible, effectively and that the procedures are 6 Approval of any changes to the to attend all Board meetings, relevant followed.
As such, all Board meetings Companys constitutional Committee meetings and the Annual commence with an opportunity for all documentation.
The Board has regular Directors to declare any potential conflicts 7 Approval of the Groups financial, scheduled meetings throughout the year.
taxation and treasury management least one of the meetings each year is Board meetings are structured to allow policies, dividend policy, long term dedicated to reviewing the Groups open discussion.
Key senior managers and financing, annual budget and operating strategy.
advisors attend relevant parts of Board plans.
During the year ended 27 June 2009, the meetings as required to ensure that the 8 Approval of material capital projects, Board held seven scheduled meetings.
The Board is properly informed about the investments, acquisitions, franchises table below shows Directors attendance at current issues facing the business.
scheduled meetings they were eligible to of all meetings are circulated promptly attend during the financial year.
9 Approval of any significant change in also a number of additional Board accounting, tax or treasury management policies or practices.
10 Approval of changes in the capital Meeting attendance structure of the Company or its status Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Annual as a public limited company listed on Committee Committee Committee General Meeting the London Stock Exchange and, in Director Act Poss Act Poss Act Poss Act Poss Act Poss particular, the issue or allotment of 1 Sir Patrick Brown 77 4444 22 11 shares in the Company otherwise than pursuant to Company-approved Rupert Pennant-Rea 7 7 44 4 4 22 1 1 employee share schemes and share 2 Andrew Allner 4 4 22 1 1 00 0 0 buyback programmes.
3 Christopher Collins 33 2 2 3 3 1 1 1 1 11 Responsible for the appointment, re- 4 4 Keith Ludeman 77 444422 1 1 appointment and removal of the Chairman and Directors and the 4 4 Nick Swift 77 4400 1111 recommendation to shareholders of Act Actual Poss Possible their election or re-election under 1 Sir Patrick Brown attended two meetings of the Audit Committee as the Chairman of the Committee prior to October the Articles of Association: the 2008 when he was replaced as Chairman of the Audit Committee by Andrew Allner: since then Sir Patrick Brown appointment and removal of the attended two further meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
Company Secretary: ensuring that 2 Andrew Allner was appointed to the Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination suitable procedures are in place for Committee, all with effect from 24 October 2008. succession planning and the fees 3 Christopher Collins retired from the Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination payable to the Non-Executive Committee, on 23 October 2008, following the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
4 Keith Ludeman and Nick Swift attended the stated number of meetings by invitation of the relevant Committee.
Keith Ludemans attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings was on a part meeting basis where discussions were held in respect of his own remuneration.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Non-Executive Directors It is important that the Board ensures Division of responsibilities The role of the Non-Executive Directors is planned and progressive refreshing of the The offices of the Chairman and Group to challenge constructively, help develop Board and the balance of experience of Chief Executive are held separately.
The proposals on strategy, scrutinise the the Non-Executive Directors, in terms of Company Chairman is Sir Patrick Brown performance of management in meeting their length of tenure, is shown in Figure 2. and the Group Chief Executive is Keith agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Ludeman.
There is a clear division of reporting of performance.
The NonCompany Secretary responsibility between the Chairman and Executive Directors must satisfy themselves The Group Company Secretary is Carolyn the Group Chief Executive, with the on the integrity of financial information and Sephton, who was appointed in July 2006. division of key responsibilities, as agreed by that financial controls and systems of risk Her biography can be found on page 42. the Board, shown below: management are robust and defensible.
They She is Secretary to the Board and all of its Chairman: are responsible for ensuring appropriate Committees.
The Group Company leadership of the Board, ensuring its remuneration and succession planning Secretary reports to the Company effectiveness in all aspects of its role and arrangements are in place in relation to the Chairman in her role as Secretary to the setting its agenda, taking into account the Executive Directors.
For all other issues relevant to the Group and the company secretariat matters, including the concerns of all Board members: Board balance and independence management of the Groups non-rail The Board considers that an appropriate pension arrangements, the Group ensuring a regular evaluation of the balance between the Executive and NonCompany Secretary reports to the Group performance of the Board and its Executive Directors is necessary to Finance Director.
Committees: promote shareholders interests and to The Group Company Secretary is facilitating the effective contribution of govern the business effectively.
Excluding responsible to the Board for ensuring that Non-Executive Directors: and the Chairman, half of the Board are NonBoard procedures are complied with, Executive Directors, who bring objectivity encouraging active engagement by all including ensuring effective communication to the Boardroom as they are not involved members of the Board and constructive flows within the Board and its Committees, in the day to day running of the Company.
relations between the Executive and as well as the provision of accurate, timely The Chairman of the Board is also a NonNon-Executive Directors: and clear information to the Board ahead Executive role.
The balance of Nonof Board meetings.
She is also responsible Chief Executive: Executive and Executive Directors is for ensuring that the Board is regularly running the day to day business of the shown in Figure 1. updated on matters of corporate Group, within the authorities delegated The Chairman was considered governance, legislative changes and by the Board: independent on his appointment and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
The leading the development of the Groups Board considers both of the Nonappointment and removal of the Company strategy, including identifying and Executive Directors, Andrew Allner and Secretary is a matter for the Board as a assessing opportunities: Rupert Pennant-Rea, to be robustly whole.
independent in character and judgement.
ensuring the execution of policies and All Directors have access to the advice and The Board believes that there is sufficient strategy as set by the Board as a whole: services of the Group Company Secretary weight of Non-Executives to be able to and may also take independent ensuring effective communication with effectively counterbalance the executive professional advice, at the Groups shareholders and investors: element.
The Board also regularly assesses expense, if they believe it necessary for the the other commitments of its Nonday to day leadership of the executive proper discharge of their duties as Executive Directors and is satisfied that and senior management team: and Directors.
there are no conflicts of duties and that the ensuring that the Chairman is kept Non-Executives have sufficient time to fulfil updated in a timely manner of issues, their responsibilities to shareholders.
Senior Independent Director Fig 1: Balance of Non-Executive Fig 2: Non-Executive Directors tenure The Senior Independent Director, Rupert and Executive Directors Pennant-Rea, is an important point of contact for shareholders in the event that they have concerns which have not been 1 1 resolved through the normal channels of 2 1 Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or Chairman or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director also leads a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors at least 2 once a year, without the Chairman present, where the Chairmans performance is 1 evaluated.
Non-Executive Chairman Executive Directors 0-3 years 9 years 3-6 years Independent Non-Executive Directors 48 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Re-election of Directors Fig 3: Performance evaluation Board effectiveness At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, in addition to Andrew Allner standing for Questionnaire election by the shareholders for the first Appointments to the Board Completed by each Director time following his appointment to the During the 2007 08 financial year, on the Analysed by external consultant Board, Sir Patrick Brown and Rupert announcement of Christopher Collins Pennant-Rea will be standing for reintention to retire following the 2008 election.
Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Interview Sir Patrick Brown joined the Board in 1999 Committee commenced a selection Each Director met with external consultant as a Non-Executive Director, becoming process for the appointment of a Non-Executive Chairman in 2002.
He has replacement Non-Executive Director.
An now served on the Board for more than external search agency was appointed to Board meeting nine years and therefore, in accordance assist in the identification of suitable with the Combined Code, submits himself candidates.
After interviewing a number of Findings presented and discussed at Board meeting for annual re-election.
The Board recognise potential candidates the Committee his industry-wide experience and longunanimously proposed, and the Board standing contribution to the Board.
unanimously accepted, the appointment of Furthermore, Sir Patricks performance Andrew Allner with effect from 24 Relations with shareholders evaluation reaffirms his continued October 2008.
The Group recognises the importance of effectiveness in his leadership of the Board, regular communication with all of its Andrew is a Chartered Accountant with Remuneration and Nomination shareholders.
The reporting calendar is significant Executive and Non-Executive Committees and the Board unanimously dominated by the publication of the annual experience.
Following his appointment to believe that he should be re-elected for a and half year results each year and the the Board, he was also appointed as further year.
interim management and trading Chairman of the Audit Committee, due to Rupert Pennant-Rea became a Nonstatements where the Board provides his extensive recent financial experience.
Executive Director of the Board in 2002 and shareholders with a clear and balanced He is also a member of the Nomination was appointed Senior Independent Director understanding of the Groups operational and Remuneration Committees.
He was last re-elected by the performance, its financial results and A full, formal and tailored induction was shareholders at the 2006 Annual General prospects.
arranged for Andrew prior to him joining Meeting, and therefore, in accordance with The Executive Directors meet with the the Board.
This included a full briefing of his the Combined Code, submits himself for reGroups major shareholders both responsibilities and obligations under law, election.
Following the Boards formal institutional investors and private regulation and corporate governance performance evaluation, as well as shareholders with significant holdings after guidelines.
Andrew visited each operating assessment against independence criteria the announcement of annual and half year company, where he met with local senior and potential conflicts of interest, the results and at other times as appropriate, management, as well as meeting with the Chairman can confirm that Ruperts including site visits and management Group Chief Executive and key Group performance continues to be effective and presentations such as that which recently personnel.
Specialist support was provided he demonstrates commitment to the role.
took place with regard to the retention of from the Group Finance Director and the He is well known to investors and financial the Southern franchise.
In addition to the internal and external auditors on particular professionals and available to shareholders in meetings with Executive Directors, areas in relation to the Audit Committee.
his role as Senior Independent Director as institutional shareholders are offered the required.
The Board, therefore, recommends As is the case for all Go-Aheads Nonopportunity of meetings with the Nonunanimously his re-election for a Executive Directors, Andrew has not been Executive Directors.
However, in for example in the event that the Board accordance with the Combined Code, he proposes to make significant changes to Performance evaluation will stand for election by the shareholders at Directors remuneration arrangements, The Board has adopted a procedure for the 2009 Annual General Meeting and for there will also be consultation with major the evaluation of the performance of the re-election at intervals of no more than shareholders.
The institutional shareholders Board, its Committees, individual Directors three years thereafter.
Since joining the have further opportunities to make their and the Group Company Secretary, as Board, Andrew has demonstrated his views known through follow up interviews shown in Figure 3. commitment, making a well qualified and by the Companys brokers which are then effective contribution.
As such, the Board This evaluation, which is led by the documented and circulated to the Board.
recommends unanimously to shareholders Chairman, is carried out by an external The Executive Directors also provide that they elect Andrew Allner as a Nonconsultant on an annual basis.
The Nonfeedback to the Board following Executive Director at the 2009 Annual Executive Directors, led by the Senior presentations to investors.
Independent Director, were responsible for The principal communication with private the performance evaluation of the shareholders is through the Annual Report Chairman, taking into account the views of and the Annual General Meeting, which is the Executive Directors.
No significant attended by all Directors.
All shareholders issues were raised during this years are invited to the Annual General Meeting evaluation.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 49 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued which provides an opportunity for the work of the Audit Committee which matters.
Risk management is an integral shareholders to develop their understanding has delegated responsibility from the Board part of day-to-day operations where there of the Company and ask questions on the for reviewing the effectiveness of the exists clear ownership of risk identification matters put to the meeting as detailed in Companys risk management and internal and mitigation at local level.
Because of the the Notice of Meeting sent to registered control systems.
organisational structure, risk management shareholders in advance of the meeting.
information can also be shared across the During the year, the Group continued to There is also the opportunity to meet Group as well as reported upwards.
strengthen its ongoing processes for risk informally with the Directors before and management across the Group, with a Reporting after the meeting.
The Board encourages all number of improvements to the overall In accordance with the Groups Policy & shareholders to attend the Annual General risk management strategy, infrastructure Procedures Manual, defined and Meeting.
and process to ensure that the Groups risk comprehensive reporting obligations Ordinary business which is raised for management framework is embedded placed on operating companies are consideration at the Annual General throughout the business and is part of supported by monthly operating company Meeting each year is: performance reporting.
board meetings with the Executive Directors.
Key management processes, to receive the financial statements for the In particular, and as part of the annual including planning, project appraisal and year, together with the Directors and Turnbull review, there has been a move performance management, ensure that the Auditors Reports: away from a prescriptive mechanism based impact of key risks are addressed.
Controls around each operating company evaluating to approve the final dividend: and mitigations are regularly monitored.
risks against criteria provided in detailed to elect and re-elect members of the questionnaires, to one that focuses on the Risk management process Board: evaluation of key risks to each operating The risk management process is clearly companys own objectives and the defined and includes top-down risk to approve the Directors Remuneration efficiency of controls in place.
Reported assessment at Group level and bottom-up Report: risks are then further assessed for risk assessments at operating company to re-appoint the Companys Auditor: and materiality in the context of the whole level.
A bespoke risk categorisation model Group and considered by the Audit exists which is used across the Group to to give the Directors the authority to Committee and Board, in addition to being ensure that risks are identified and determine the Auditors remuneration.
used to develop part of the internal audit reported on a consistent basis and a Other matters included on the agenda for plan for the year ahead.
process is in place to aggregate key risks the Annual General Meeting vary from on a Group-wide basis.
Ongoing risk The principal risks and uncertainties facing year to year in accordance with the identification, mitigation and reduction the Group are discussed on pages 19 and requirements of the Company.
plans will be reported at each main Board 20. meeting, in addition to quarterly reporting The Company maintains a comprehensive The key features of the internal control to the Audit Committee.
website that provides, among other things, systems, which have been established to access to the annual and half year reports, Group internal audit safeguard both the shareholders copies of the presentations used at road The internal audit function has been investment and the assets of the Group, shows and regulatory news items, as well outsourced to .
are described as follows: as share price and general shareholder The internal audit function provides information.
Strategy assurance over the effectiveness of key The Board has developed an controls as identified as part of the risk The Groups Company Secretariat, based at understanding of its risk appetite which assessment process.
the Companys Registered Office in enables strong leadership, strategic Newcastle, responds to a wide range of In addition to meetings with local objective setting, decision-making and enquiries from shareholders that are management, the internal auditors report control.
Business planning encompasses a received via a variety of media, including the on a monthly basis to the Executive structured risk assessment with major email communication system available on the Directors, and also to the Audit acquisitions, investments, projects and Companys website.
partnerships all entered into with a recognition of an appropriate risk-reward The Directors acknowledge their Internal control and risk management balance.
responsibility for establishing and maintaining The Group has established an ongoing the Groups system of internal control and process of identifying, evaluating and Group structure for ensuring its effectiveness.
As with any managing the significant risks facing the With clear leadership from the Board and system of internal controls, the policies and Group.
This has been in place during the Audit Committee, the Executive Directors processes in place throughout the Group are financial year ended 27 June 2009 and up are actively involved in establishing and designed to manage rather than eliminate the to the date of the approval of this report.
communicating the risk strategy and policy risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic of the Group.
The Groups decentralised The Board as a whole takes responsibility objectives, and can only provide reasonable, organisation structure, with defined limits for the disclosures on the effectiveness of and not absolute, assurance against material of responsibility and authority, enables the the Groups internal control processes and misstatement or loss.
Executive Directors to play an active role confirms that it has established the in helping the businesses to assess risk and While a number of minor control procedures necessary to comply with the encourages open communication on risk Turnbull Report.
The Board is supported by 50 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
