weaknesses were identified during the Responsibilities The Committee advises the Board on year as a result of the Groups risk The responsibilities of the Audit the appointment of the external management processes, these are being Committee are outlined in summary auditors and, during the year, addressed and monitored.
There have below: considered their remuneration both for been no material weaknesses that audit and non-audit work.
In order to reviewing the effectiveness of the require specific disclosure in the ensure auditor objectivity and Groups financial reporting, internal Groups Annual Report.
independence, the provision of certain control policies and procedures for non-audit services including accounting the identification, assessment and Disclosure andTransparency Rules and tax services if the fees exceed a reporting of risk: DTR 7.2.
6 level set by the Audit Committee are Disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
6 monitoring the role and effectiveness subject to approval by the Audit can be found on pages 59 and 60. of the internal auditors, including Committee.
The Audit Committee has approving their appointment: specified that the external audit firm may not provide certain categories considering and making Committees of the of non-audit services to the Group recommendations to the Board on as detailed in the Committees terms Board the appointment of the external of reference.
auditors: The Board has established a number of The Audit Committee keeps under reviewing the relationship with the Committees to deal with specific review the cost effectiveness and the external auditors, including their aspects of the Groups affairs.
The independence and objectivity of the terms of engagement, fees, responsibilities of each Committee are external and internal auditors.
During independence, expertise, resources determined by its terms of reference the financial year, the audit fees of the and qualifications: which are available on the Companys external auditor were 0.7m and their website or upon request from the monitoring the integrity of the fees for non-audit work were 0.4m.
Groups financial statements: and comparison, non-audit fees paid to other audit firms during the financial reviewing significant financial reporting year were 2.6m.
During the year, the Committee carried Audit Committee The Companys whistleblowing out a tender for the provision of procedures, which are reviewed on an report internal audit services to the Group.
annual basis, allow employees to raise Following a review of a number of The Committee is concerns confidentially and for the potential providers, which included responsible for reviewing independent investigation of such matters.
interviews and presentations, the the effectiveness of the The Committee is responsible for Committee proposed and the Board Companys financial overseeing any necessary follow up action.
agreed with the recommendation to reporting.
appoint  as Under the Combined Code at least Andrew Allner the Groups new provider for internal one member of the Committee should Audit Committee Chairman audit services.
This appointment was have recent and relevant financial effective from 28 June 2009.
As a chartered accountant, Members: Committee will monitor and review and previously the Group Finance Andrew Allner - Committee Chairman their delivery and effectiveness on an Director of another listed company Non-Executive Director ongoing basis.
between 2004 and 2007, Andrew Allner fully satisfies this requirement.
Rupert Pennant-Rea During the year the Committee met Non-Executive Director four times and, as part of the annual Activities Board evaluation, also undertook a Committee Secretary During the year, the Committee specific evaluation of its effectiveness.
Carolyn Sephton provided a forum for reporting by the Group Company Secretary At least once a year, the Non-Executive Groups external and internal auditors, Directors meet with the external including health and safety auditors.
The Meetings also regularly attended, auditors, without the Executive Committee also received and reviewed by invitation, by: Directors being present.
reports from management relating to Sir Patrick Brown the annual and half year profit figures Company Chairman and statements, monitored the controls Keith Ludeman in force and reviewed the key Group Chief Executive judgemental areas at the half year and year end to ensure the integrity of the Nick Swift financial information reported to Group Finance Director shareholders.
Additionally, the Internal Auditors representative s Committee considered the risk management processes and controls, as External Auditors representative s outlined on page 50.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Company and best practice in corporate Responsibilities governance from time to time.
Nomination The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining the As reported in the 2008 Annual Committee report remuneration, contract terms and other Report, the Committee, in consultation benefits of the Executive Directors, The Committee with an external search consultancy, including performance-related bonus proposed to the Board the met to discuss the appointment of a and share schemes.
appointment of Andrew Non-Executive Director following Allner during the year.
Christopher Collins stated intention to Activities retire from the Board at the conclusion Sir Patrick Brown During the year the Committee met Nomination Committee Chairman of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
four times to consider bonus payments After interviewing a number of and salary reviews for the Executive potential candidates against objective Directors, as well as performance criteria, the Nomination Committee Members: conditions and awards under the Long proposed, and the Board unanimously Sir Patrick Brown - Committee Chairman Term Incentive Plan.
The Committee accepted, that Andrew Allner be Non-Executive Chairman received a report from the Chief appointed as Non-Executive Director Executive on salary and bonus Rupert Pennant-Rea and Chairman of the Audit Committee arrangements for the senior Non-Executive Director with effect from 24 October 2008. management of each operating Andrew Allner During the year the Committee met company and senior Group personnel.
Non-Executive Director twice not including interviews with potential candidates and, as part of the Keith Ludeman annual Board evaluation, also undertook Group Chief Executive a specific evaluation of its effectiveness.
Committee Secretary: Carolyn Sephton Remuneration Group Company Secretary Committee report Responsibilities The majority of members of the The Committee meets Nomination Committee are Nonregularly to determine the Executive Directors.
The responsibilities remuneration and other of the Committee are outlined in benefits of the Executive summary below: Directors.
Sir Patrick Brown reviewing regularly the structure, size Remuneration Committee Chairman and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board regarding any desired changes: Members: Sir Patrick Brown - Committee Chairman evaluating the balance of skills, Non-Executive Chairman knowledge and experience on the Board: Rupert Pennant-Rea Non-Executive Director identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable candidates Andrew Allner to fill vacancies for Board Non-Executive Director appointments: Committee Secretary planning for the orderly succession of Carolyn Sephton new Directors to the Board: and Group Company Secretary recommending to the Board the Meetings also regularly attended, membership and chairmanship of the by invitation, by: Audit and Remuneration Keith Ludeman Committees.
Group Chief Executive Activities Full details on the activities and the The Nomination Committee meets as responsibilities of the Remuneration needed to deal with necessary Committee can be found in the assignments and is responsible for Directors Remuneration Report on leading the process of identifying pages 53 to 58.
The following is a highcandidates for Board appointment and level summary of the Committees making recommendations to the Board responsibilities and activities.
in accordance with the needs of the 52 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
