Roger Whiteside Raymond Reynolds Iain Ferguson Julie Baddeley Derek Netherton Chairman, 65 Corporate Governance Spent his career in investment banking and The Board recognises the importance of, retired in 1996 from his position as joint head of and is committed to, high standards of corporate corporate finance at J Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
governance and to integrity and high ethical He is a nonexecutive director of St Jamess Place standards in all of its business dealings.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2002 The Board considers that it has complied, and was appointed Chairman in August of the same throughout the year under review, with the principles year.
There have been no significant changes to the of governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Chairmans other commitments during 2009.
He is Code on corporate governance published by the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code effective during the financial year.
The only exception is that Sir Michael Darrington, formerly Managing Kennedy McMeikan Chief Executive, 44 Director of the Company, remained on the Board as a nonexecutive director until May 2009 to assist with Joined the Board on 1 June 2008 and became the transition to a new Chief Executive, appointed Chief Executive of the Company on 1 August 2008. from outside the Company.
This resulted in there Kennedy was Retail Director of J Sainsbury Plc from being less than half of the Board excluding the 2005-2008.
Prior to this, he had spent 14 years at Chairman comprising independent nonexecutive Tesco.
Appointed Chief Executive of Tesco in Japan directors, contrary to Code provision A.
3.2 until in 2004, he had previously been Chief Executive of March 2009, when Iain Ferguson was appointed as Europa Foods convenience store business following an additional nonexecutive director.
its acquisition by Tesco in 2002.
He began his career The following statements, together with the at Sears UK in 1986, after five years service in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 77 to Royal Navy from 1981 to 1986.
88, describe how the relevant principles and provisions of the Combined Code were applied to the Company in 2009 and will be relevant to the Richard Hutton, FCA Company for the 2010 financial year.
Finance Director, 41 During 2009, Sir Michael Darrington retired from Was appointed to the Board on 13 March 2006. the Board, after 26 years of distinguished service, He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with and Iain Ferguson joined the Board.
KPMG and gained career experience with Procter The Board & Gamble before joining Greggs in 1998.
He was appointed Finance Director on 10 May 2006.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive and four nonexecutive directors as follows: 26 Bob Bennett Derek Netherton Kennedy McMeikan Richard Hutton Raymond Reynolds Retail Director, 50 Roger Whiteside, 51 Was appointed to the Board as Retail Director Joined the Board on 17 March 2008.
He joined Greggs in retail Managing Director of the Leased division of Punch management in 1986.
During the late 1990s, as Taverns plc.
He was Chief Executive of the Thresher general manager he built a significant new business Group offlicence chain from 2004 to 2007.
Prior to for Greggs in the Edinburgh region, and in 2002 this, he was one of the founding team of Ocado, the he was appointed Managing Director of Greggs innovative online grocer operating in partnership with of Scotland.
Waitrose, and served as Joint Managing Director from 2000 to 2004.
He began his career at Marks & Spencer, where he spent 20 years, ultimately Bob Bennett becoming head of its Food Business.
Roger is a Senior Independent Director, 62 member of the Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees of the Board.
Was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
He trained as a Chartered Accountant with Spicer & Pegler and was Group Finance Director of Northern Iain Ferguson, 54 Rock plc from 1993 until his retirement at the end of Joined the Board on 31 March 2009.
He is a member of the Nominations Chief Executive of Tate & Lyle PLC until October and Remuneration Committees: he has been 2009.
Previously, he worked for Unilever where Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2004 and he held a number of senior positions including became the Senior Independent Director in 2008.
Executive Chairman of Birds Eye Walls and Senior Vice President, Corporate Development.
Julie Baddeley, 58 He is a nonexecutive director of Balfour Beatty and The Davis Service Group, a member of the Was appointed to the Board in March 2005.
 UK Advisory Board, She has held senior executive roles in the Woolwich a former Commissioner on the UK Governments plc where she was responsible for Information Policy Commission on the Future of Farming and Technology and Human Resources, Accenture and Food and also a former President of the Institute of Sema Consulting.
Julie is a nonexecutive director Grocery Distribution.
He was, until 31 December of Camelot Group plc, the Department of Health, 2008, President of the UK Food and Drink Federation Chrysalis VCT plc, Spice Plc and is an Associate and is Honorary Vice President of the British Nutrition Fellow of the Said Business School, Oxford.
Julie is Foundation and a member of Defras Council a member of the Nominations and Audit Committees of Food Policy Advisors.
Iain is a member of the and has been Chair of the Remuneration Committee Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees since 2005. of the Board.
27 of the management team, members of the senior Effectiveness management team are invited to attend Board The Board, under the chairmanship of Derek meetings and or to present papers to the Board.
Netherton, meets regularly to discharge its duties.
This process also affords senior managers the At these meetings, it reviews Group strategy, opportunity to bring matters to the attention of performance, resources, risk management and the Board.
other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst the The Board is satisfied that a process is in place executive responsibility for running the Companys for orderly succession to the Board and to positions business rests ultimately with the Chief Executive, of senior management, so as to maintain an Kennedy McMeikan, the nonexecutive directors appropriate balance of skills and experience within ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive the Company and on the Board.
directors are fully discussed and critically examined prior to adoption.
During 2009, the scheduled After carefully reviewing the guidance in the Combined Code, all of the nonexecutive directors Board and Committee meetings and the number of meetings attended by each current director are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and to be free from any were as follows: Main Board Audit Committee Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Number of meetings held 7 4 5 1 Derek Netherton 7 1 Kennedy McMeikan 7 Richard Hutton 7 Raymond Reynolds 7 Julie Baddeley 7 4 5 1 Bob Bennett 7 4 5 1 Roger Whiteside 7 4 5 1 Iain Ferguson appointed 5 5 1 2 2 3 31 March 2009 therefore could have attended In addition, the nonexecutive directors meet business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely to affect or to interfere with the exercise of for two formal meetings each year and from time to time, as required.
The Companys articles of association require The Board has a policy on the separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
that all directors must retire and seek reelection at the first AGM following appointment.
Thereafter, any The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that the Board is supplied, in a timely nonexecutive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years must seek reelection manner, with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
One half of the remaining directors, being those who have been in office longest since last The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls the Company.
All directors take decisions reelection, and any other director who has not been elected or reelected at either of the two preceding objectively and in the interests of the Company.
The nonexecutive directors scrutinise the AGMs, must seek reelection at each AGM.
All directors are able to receive training and to performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
They also have direct access to the performance.
All directors receive induction training on joining the Board and regularly update and Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance refresh their knowledge through reading, attendance on relevant courses and or activities outside the matters.
The Chairman meets with the nonexecutive Company.
directors at least annually without the executive directors present.
The Senior Independent As part of the process of maintaining an awareness of the Companys activities and assessing the ability Director meets the nonexecutive directors without 28 although time is set aside annually for discussion the Chairman present annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The performance of between the Committee and the external auditors and with the internal auditors, in each case in the the Board, its Committees and of all directors is evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous absence of all executive directors.
The Committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it sees process.
In 2009, each director completed a written questionnaire and participated in a one to one fit.
The Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit activities and risk telephone interview with the Company Secretary.
In addition to covering the effectiveness of the Board, management process.
The Combined Code requires the Board to its committees and each individual director, the process also included a review of the performance be satisfied that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial of the Board against the objectives it set for itself at the start of the year and whether the Board had experience the Board is satisfied in this respect and is confident that the collective experience of the operated in accordance with the Companys values at all times.
The results are fed back to the Chairman members enables them to act effectively as an Audit Committee.
The Committee also has access to the and the Senior Independent Director and then to the Board for discussion.
These discussions are used to Group financial team and to its auditors and can seek further professional advice, at the Companys identify actions to improve effectiveness, to identify individual and collective training needs and to set cost, if required.
The Remuneration Committee currently objectives for the Board for the next year.
consists entirely of independent nonexecutive directors Julie Baddeley Chair, Bob Bennett, Board Committees The Board delegates some of its activities to Roger Whiteside and Iain Ferguson.
The Committees main duties which it discharged the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference, which are available on the during the year are to determine the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of Companys website.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees.
employment, performancerelated bonuses, share options and pension benefits of the executive The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent nonexecutive directors Bob directors and the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is also responsible for the operation Bennett Chairman, Julie Baddeley, Roger Whiteside and Iain Ferguson.
The Committees of the Companys share option schemes and for monitoring the framework for, broad policy in respect main functions which it discharged during the year are to endeavour i to ensure that the accounting of, and levels of remuneration of the Companys and financial policies of the Company are proper senior management.
A separate executive director and effective: ii to assist the Board in fulfilling its committee sets, after discussion with the Chairman, oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity the fees for the nonexecutive directors so as to of the accounts and information published by the ensure that no director is involved in setting his Company: iii to review the internal financial controls or her own remuneration.
The Directors and the Groups approach to risk management: Remuneration report is set out on pages 77 to 88 iv to monitor compliance with the Listing Rules of this annual report.
and the recommendations of the Combined Code: The Nominations Committee currently and v to maintain an appropriate relationship with comprises Derek Netherton Chairman, and all of the Companys external auditors and review the the nonexecutive directors.
The Committees main effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process.
functions which it discharged during the year are During the year, the Committee, in performing to review the balance and constitution of the Board: these functions, reviewed the annual and interim to advise the Board as to whether directors retiring accounts issued to shareholders: compliance with by rotation should be nominated for reelection financial reporting standards and the size and by the members: and to approve and manage the remit of the internal audit function.
The Committee process for setting the specification for all Board also considered and made recommendations to appointments, identifying candidates who meet the Board in relation to the independence and that specification and making recommendations objectivity of the external auditors including the to the Board on the basis of merit and compliance impact of any nonaudit work undertaken by them with objective criteria in respect of all new Board and their suitability for reappointment.
Committee reviewed the scope of the external audit In recruiting additional directors the Nominations in discussion with the external auditors and agreed Committee defines the role and uses external their fees in respect of the audit.
consultants to assist in identifying suitable The Committee normally meets with the Finance candidates from which the Committee selects Director and the external auditors in attendance, a short list and conducts interviews.
The final 29 candidate is then subject to formal recommendation system, which have been in place during the whole by the Committee and approval by the Board.
of the year under review and up to the date of This process was adopted for the selection of Iain approval of this annual report and accounts, are: Ferguson as a new nonexecutive director.
Each of the Committees is provided with Board of Directors sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
The Board takes a proactive approach to the management of all forms of risk, and views Relations with shareholders risk management as a vital constituent of its role.
The Chairman ensures that there is effective At each Board meeting, the effectiveness of the communication with individual and institutional controls relating to the most significant risks i. e. shareholders through the announcement of regular those which may restrict the Companys ability to trading updates, as well as general presentations meet its objectives are monitored and reviewed after announcement of the interim and preliminary and consideration is given as to whether any new results and the posting of results on the Companys material risks have emerged.
The Board receives reports on any on behalf of the Board, conducts a formal review comments received from shareholders following of risks and risk management procedures and these presentations.
reports its findings to the Board.
Remedial action is The Board considers that the AGM is the main determined where appropriate.
For some key risks, forum for communication with investors, with where it is felt necessary, specialist advice is sought the chairmen of the Board and its Committees from external agencies and professional advisers.
available to answer any issues raised and any The Board also reviews, at least annually, the major newlyappointed directors being available to meet risks facing the business and the level and scope shareholders.
In addition, the Company Secretary of insurance cover maintained within the business.
and the Companys Brokers draw the attention of the The Board receives reports from management on Board to all relevant shareholder communications.
significant changes in the business and external The Board also reviews briefings and comments environment which might affect the risk profile.
by analysts in order to maintain an understanding It has also set in place a system of regular of market perceptions of the Company.
The Senior hierarchical reporting which provides for relevant Independent Director is available to shareholders details and assurances on the assessment and if they have concerns which contact through the control of risks to be given to it.
normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which Operating Board such contact is not appropriate.
The Operating Board, answerable directly to At the AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast the Chief Executive, is responsible for implementing for and against each resolution and the number decisions of the Main Board and providing of abstentions is displayed.
All substantial issues, protection against the major risks by various including the receipt of the annual report and techniques, including strategic planning, monitoring, accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate supervision and training.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Management Executive and consisting of the heads of each management function within the business, has The Board is ultimately responsible for the responsibility for analysing, assessing, measuring Groups system of internal control, which covers and understanding the Companys risk environment, all aspects of the business, and for reviewing its as well as devising a sound risk management effectiveness.
However, any such system can only strategy for review and approval by the Board.
be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the The Risk Committee reports its findings and risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives important changes to the Board on a regular basis and, therefore, is only able to provide reasonable, through personal presentation, narrative reports and and not absolute, assurance against material key performance indicators internal and external to misstatement or loss.
The directors regularly review the organisation and through the Audit Committee.
the risks to which the Company is exposed, as well as the operation and effectiveness of the system The Risk Committee also feeds the results of its of internal controls.
This is an ongoing process assessments back into the Operating Boards business planning process at least annually.
which involves the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the The risks are assessed on a regular basis across Company.
Key elements of the internal control all functional areas but, in particular, the areas 30 of food safety, health and safety, competitive Financial Reporting environment, information flow, asset protection The Company operates a comprehensive and regulatory requirements.
Divisional Financial The Board considers the key risks to the Controllers have responsibility for implementation Group to be as follows: of the Companys financial management policies within each operating division.
Each Divisional Organisational Financial Controller works closely with their divisional The success of the Company is dependent General Managers to monitor performance against upon the efforts and abilities of its employees.
This is then consolidated and reviewed further The Company has established remuneration at Company level.
In addition, assets and liabilities packages that will attract, retain and motivate are scrutinised at several levels on a regular basis individuals with appropriate skills and experience.
and remedial action is taken where required.
Organisational structure is regularly reviewed and A comprehensive annual planning process is there are groupwide processes for the training carried out, which determines expected levels of and development of all employees.
performance for all aspects of the business.
Each Divisional Financial Controller can also report External factors directly to the Group Finance Director on matters of Changes in the retail trading environment financial control.
In 2009 a new accounting system or in customer preferences could clearly have a was introduced with some responsibility for financial significant effect on the business.
The Company management being passed to a shared service continually monitors market trends, the performance centre.
Financial control will be centralised further of its competitors and the performance of its own in 2010. products and retail formats.
Consumer research is carried out regularly and key market reports Whistle Blowing are monitored.
The Company has whistle blowing procedures in place, which enable employees to bring matters Operational to the attention of the senior management, and for The safety of our products, employees and the confidential, proportionate and independent customers is paramount.
Detailed systems are in consideration and followup of any matter so raised.
place to ensure that we are operating safely and The whistle blowing procedures are reviewed these systems are subject to regular audit to ensure regularly by the Audit Committee.
High priority is given to implementing any resulting recommendations.
Detailed plans are in place for all our major production facilities to maintain business continuity in the event of any potentially disruptive occurrence.
Policies and Procedures Policies and procedures, covering control issues across appropriate aspects of the business, are defined and communicated to the respective managers and staff at all levels.
Adherence is monitored and reported upon.
Health and Safety The Company is committed to improving continuously the working environment, with the objective that accidents and work related ill health should progressively be reduced.
Health and Safety Officers and Occupational Nurses are appointed across the business and operational policies and procedures are subject to both internal and external audit.
Targets are set and programmes are devised to implement them.
This approach involves a rigorous health assessment, during which hazards are identified, risks assessed, control measures applied and improvement actions agreed to manage residual risks.
