Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Halfords Group plc is responsible for the Groups system Dennis Millard was considered on appointment to meet the of corporate governance.
The Board is committed to high standards independence criteria as set out in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Code and of corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and the three other non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to risk management but also as a positive contribution to its business be independent in character and judgement and within the definition of strategy.
The Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in a the Code.
Accordingly, no individual or group of individuals dominates fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest ethical the Boards decision-making and the requirement of the Combined standards in its business dealings.
Code that at least half of the Board excluding the chairman should comprise independent non-executive Directors is satisfied.
At the same Statement of compliance with the Combined Code time in accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals have The Directors consider that the Group has applied the principles and been appointed to the positions of Chairman, Acting Chairman and complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code Chief Executive respectively as described above and job descriptions 2006 the Code for the financial period to 3 April 2009.
This report delineating a clear division of responsibilities between the two has been describes how the Group has complied with the Code.
Nigel Wilson remains the Companys Senior Independent Director.
THE BOARD The Chairman and the non-executive Directors contribute external Board structure expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such as The Board is currently composed of seven members, consisting of a marketing, customer and consumer focus, corporate finance, general non-executive chairman and three non-executive Directors and three finance and corporate governance.
They also contribute independent executive Directors.
During the year the Company has operated, on challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations and assist in the occasions, without a specific Chief Executive Officer or Chairman.
development of the Companys strategy, scrutiny of the performance Following the resignation of Ian Mcleod on 29 February 2008 Nick of management in meeting, agree goals and targets and satisfy Wharton and Paul McClenaghan were appointed acting joint Managing themselves of the integrity of the Companys internal controls and risk Directors until 22 August 2008 when David Wild took over as the management systems.
The Board believes that all of the Directors Companys new Chief Executive Officer.
On 22 August 2008 the devote sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform Companys Chairman, Richard Pym, resigned and Nigel Wilson, the their duties.
Companys Senior Independent Director, was appointed acting Chairman until 28 May 2009 when Dennis Millard was appointed Chairman.
Directors and their interests The following Directors held office during the financial period ended 3 April 2009: Appointment Designation Reappointment date Richard Pym Chairman Resigned 22 August 2008 David Wild Chief Executive Officer Appointed 4 August 2008 Nick Wharton Finance Director 3 February 2007 Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director 31 March 2007 Nigel Wilson Senior independent Director 23 July 2008 Keith Harris Non-executive Director 23 July 2008 Bill Ronald Non-executive Director 8 June 2007 Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 53.
The Directors have wide experience and expertise and their biographical details are given on pages 36 and 37.
indd 41 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Operation of the Board Dennis Millard who was appointed as Chairman of the Board on 28 May 2009 also holds the position of Chairman of Smiths News plc.
The Boards role is to determine the long-term direction and He is also a non-executive Director of Debenhams plc, strategy of the Group, create value for shareholders, monitor the Xchanging plc and of Premier Farnell plc.
Prior to this appointment, achievement of business objectives, monitor risk and ensure that Nigel Wilson in his capacity as Acting Chairman consulted some of good corporate governance is practised and that the Group meets its the Groups top twenty shareholders and discussed Dennis Millards other responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and prospective appointment and his existing commitments.
The Board also other stakeholders.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that considered these commitments and were satisfied that they would not appropriate processes are in place in respect of succession planning for conflict with Denniss ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities appointments to the Board and to senior management positions.
The Board has a formal schedule of reserved powers, which it retains The Group is supportive of executive Directors who wish to take on for Board decision-making on a range of key issues, including the non-executive Directorship with a company outside the Group, as formulation of strategy, financial reporting and controls, corporate exposure to such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, governance matters, and treasury and risk management.
The Board which will be to the benefit of the Group.
Executive Directors may retain meets on a regular basis.
During the financial period to 3 April 2009, any fees they receive.
The Groups executive Directors do not currently the Board met formally ten times.
Details of the number of Board hold any non-executive Directorships and Committee meetings and the attendance at those meetings are set out on page 43.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with As well as helping the Chairman to set agendas, the Company information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Appropriate Secretary is responsible for ensuring that proper information is made management reports and financial information are provided to the available to the Board and to individual Directors, for liaising between Board on a monthly basis and in advance of each Board meeting.
senior management and non-executive Directors as necessary, for These normally include monthly management reports, accounts, advising the Board on governance best practise and for facilitating reports on current trading and papers on matters in respect of which induction and Director training as required.
A procedure has been the Board makes decisions or is invited to give its approval.
Specific adopted for Directors to obtain independent professional advice presentations on business, strategic issues and risk are made regularly.
where appropriate, at the cost of the Company, and all Directors have unrestricted access to the Company Secretary, who is an employee of The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board and the Company.
is not involved in day-to-day operational issues.
He sets the agendas in consultation with the executive Directors and Company Secretary.
Where a Director has a concern over any unresolved business he is Board papers are circulated in advance of each meeting.
The Chairman entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
periodically holds meetings with the non-executive Directors without the Should that Director later resign over this issue, the Chairman will bring executive Directors present.
it to the attention of the Board.
Save for matters reserved for decision by the Board, the executive The Group purchases Directors and officers liability and indemnity Directors are responsible for the running of the Groups business, insurance to cover its Directors and officers against the costs of carrying out the agreed strategy adopted by the Board and defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that implementing specific Board decisions relating to the operation of capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful the Group.
Whilst Chairman Richard Pym was a non-executive Director of Old Meetings Mutual plc and Chairman of Brighthouse Group Ltd.
The Board was The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and satisfied that these appointments did not conflict with the his ability to its Committees and individual attendances thereat during the financial carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
In addition to the meetings detailed below, Nigel Wilson was the Senior Independent Director throughout the additional Board or Board Committee meetings were held during the period under review and acted as Chairman from 22 August 2008 year for the consideration of specific business.
The Board considers until the appointment of Dennis Millard on 28 May 2009.
The Senior that all Directors have enough time to devote to the business of Independent Director is available to meet shareholders upon request Halfords Group plc.
if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or the executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
indd 42 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 1 Group Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings held 10 3 7 5 2 Richard Pym 4 1 4 3 3 David Wild 6 3 1 Nick Wharton 10 3 1 Paul McClenaghan 9 Nigel Wilson 10 3 6 4 Keith Harris 10 3 5 5 Bill Ronald 10 3 6 5 1 Certain of the Nomination Committee meetings dealt with the search for either a new Chief Executive Officer or a new Chairman, and all Directors attended all the meetings they were entitled to attend.
2 Richard Pym resigned from the Board on 22 August 2008 and had attended all Board and committee meetings up to that date.
3 David W ild was appointed to the Board on 4 August 2008 and attended all Board and committee meetings from that date.
Directors interests in contracts a process of retirement by rotation, which ensures that approximately one-third of all Directors rounded down are required to retire and The Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that a director must avoid seek re-election at each AGM and that no Director serves for more situations where he can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts than three years without being proposed for re-election at an AGM.
or might conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Directors of Accordingly Bill Ronald, Paul McClenaghan and Nick Wharton will retire Halfords Group plc underwent a training programme to allow them a and offer themselves for re-election at this years AGM.
better understanding of their obligations under the Act and completed a questionnaire issued by the Company Secretary to ascertain whether Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms normally there were or might have been an actual or potential conflict of interest.
three years and these Terms and Conditions of Appointment are At 10 June 2009 no Director had a material interest at any time during available on the Groups website, halfordscompany.
They are the year in any contract of significance, other than a service contract subject to reappointment under the Companys Articles of Association see Directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 53, with the and subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The Companys Articles of Association, adopted in Annual General The Chairman confirms to shareholders when proposing an Meeting AGM on 23 July 2008, contains provisions that allow the appointment or reappointment that, following formal performance Directors of Halfords Group plc to authorise a conflict or potential evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and conflicts of interest.
In the period to 3 April 2009, the Board did not they demonstrate commitment to the role.
need to make use of such provisions.
The Board has formally adopted an induction programme for new Remuneration Directors, which will be tailored to each new Director who joins the The Directors Remuneration report sets out the status of the Board and includes briefings regarding the activities of the Group Companys compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code and visits to stores.
Documentation and training on their duties as with regard to remuneration matters and includes a statement on the Directors are also available to all Directors.
In the period to 3 April Companys policy on Directors and senior managers remuneration, 2009 the Directors attended two training days.
The first concerning benefits, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements.
the Companies Act 2006 and Directors Conflicts of Interests and the A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration report will be second concerning Directors responsibilities in certain commercial proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
All Directors are also members of the Deloitte Academy, a training resource that provides support and guidance to Boards, Appointment of Directors individual directors and company secretaries.
In addition, Directors The Companys Articles of Association require Directors appointed are also informed regularly on relevant material changes to laws and by the Board during the year to retire and offer themselves for regulations affecting the Groups business.
All Directors have access reappointment at the first AGM following their appointment.
David Wild to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also and Dennis Millard were appointed on 4 August 2008 and 28 May responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
2009 respectively and as required by the Companys Articles will offer themselves for re-election at the AGM on 29 July 2009.
Under article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association there is also 15953HALFORDS.
indd 43 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Committees The Committee will keep under review the external Auditors independence including any non-audit services that are to be The Board has established an effective Committee structure to assist provided by the external Auditors.
The Auditors are also requested in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of these to confirm their independence at least annually.
A formal policy has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees comply with the been developed and implemented, which ensures that the nature provisions of the Combined Code and are available for inspection on of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the the Companys website, halfordscompany.
external Auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit, Nomination and policy incorporates a fee limit of 25,000, above which a formal tender Remuneration Committees.
Only the members of each Committee are process must be undertaken and approval of the Committee obtained entitled to attend its meetings, although other Directors, professional prior to any proposed appointment.
advisers and members of the senior management team attend The Committee has approved a formal whistle-blowing policy whereby when invited to do so.
The Audit Committee will invite the external staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible Auditor to certain of its meetings.
In the cases of the Nomination and malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses or any Remuneration Committees, no member is present when business of its employees without fear of reprisal.
This includes arrangements to pertinent to them is under discussion.
A Treasury Committee, investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
composed of senior members of the finance and treasury teams and chaired by the Finance Director, has been established to manage In addition to ensuring the integrity of the Groups half-year and full-year the day-to-day treasury needs of the Group.
When the need arises, financial statements before publication, during the financial year to separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider 3 April 2009 the committee: specific issues.
n Considered the external Auditors report for the period ended Audit Committee 28 March 2008 and 26 September 2008: For the financial period to 3 April 2009, the Audit Committee comprised n Received regular reports from the internal Auditors and agreed the Nigel Wilson, Keith Harris and Bill Ronald, all of whom are independent annual audit plan: non-executive Directors.
The Committee chairman is Nigel Wilson, n Conducted an internal review of its own effectiveness: who, having been Chief Financial Officer of United Business Media plc, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial n Reviewed, amended and approved its own Terms of Reference: experience.
Each of the other independent non-executive Directors on n Reviewed and approved the Companys whistle-blowing policy: the Committee has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
n Reported to the Board on matters it had identified as requiring action or improvement: The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year, according to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the n Approved responses to the Financial Reporting Review Panel, in Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for the independent nonrespect of informal enquiries on the Groups Annual Report and executive Directors to meet without the executive Directors present and Financial Statements for the year ended 29 March 2007: also the opportunity to raise any issues of concern with the Companys n Recommend for approval the Groups risk management and external Auditor.
internal control policies: and The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations n Approved the external Auditors audit strategy and audit fee for the to the Board on the appointment of the external Auditors and their period to 3 April 2009. remuneration, for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the Interim Report and Annual Having retained the services of  LLP as Report and Financial Statements and reviewing the scope and statutory Auditors since 2003, the committee has progressed a findings of the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its complete review of such services available to the Group.
As a result of obligations under the Combined Code in areas of risk management this process, KPMG LLP will be recommended to the shareholders at and internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal the AGM as Auditors for the forthcoming financial year.
requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and ensures Nomination Committee that an effective system of internal financial and non-financial controls is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the For the financial period to 3 April 2009 the Nomination Committee Annual Report and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
comprised Keith Harris, Bill Ronald, Nigel Wilson, Richard Pym prior to his resignation and David Wild following his appointment.
Richard Pym chaired the committee up to his resignation and as acting Chairman Nigel Wilson chaired the committee for the rest of the year.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald are considered independent non-executive Directors.
The Combined Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment and the Board feels it is appropriate, as all non-executive Directors sit on the committee, that the committee should be chaired by the Chairman of the Group.
Dennis Millard will chair the committee going forward.
indd 44 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 45 The Committee, which will normally meet not less than twice a year, has Executive Directors attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee Board of the Company, retirements and appointments of additional and will normally meet at least twice a year.
replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on Board.
remuneration of executive Directors, the Company Secretary and The Nomination Committee has established a process for Board senior managers.
It also determines, within agreed terms of reference, appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent specific remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This executive Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company and process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge such members of senior management as it is delegated to consider.
of the existing Directors, to assess which of the potential shortlisted This includes pension rights: any compensation payments: and the candidates would most benefit the balance of the Board having regard implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with also to the need for succession planning.
During the search for a new the Committees terms of reference, no Director may participate in Chief Executive Officer and a new Chairman, the committee used the discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or services of the executive recruitment agencies, The Miles Partnership remuneration.
and Egon Zehnder and included on its shortlist candidates who were Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is nationally and internationally available.
set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 53.
In recommending Dennis Millard to be appointed Chairman of the Evaluation of the Board and its Committees Group, the Nomination Committee assessed the time commitment The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation required by the Chairman.
In approving the appointment the Board took of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual this into account and also considered Denniss other commitments.
Questionnaires are drawn up, which provide the framework The Board concluded that he had enough time to fulfil his commitments for the evaluation process.
Each member of the Board or appropriate to the Group and his other commitments would not affect his ability to Committee is invited to comment on the performance of the individual, carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
the Board, or the appropriate Committee and submits replies to the During the financial year to 3 April 2008, the committee: questionnaires, which are then collated.
Following a review of these responses by the Board or by the appropriate Committee, appropriate n Approved the search process for a new Chief Executive Officer.
action will be taken to ensure that the performance of the Board as a n Evaluated the skills and experience required by a new Chief whole, its principal committees and individual Directors is such that Executive Officer.
each can perform at the optimum level for the benefit of the Company.
n Recommended to the Board the appointment of David Wild as The Senior Independent Director discusses with the Chairman the Chief Executive Officer.
responses to the Chairmans effectiveness questionnaire, whilst the Chairman discusses the non-executive Directors performance n Discussed the resignation of the Chairman and approved the evaluation with the individual non-executive Directors.
search process for a new Chairman.
Relationships with shareholders n Evaluated the skills, experience and time commitment required by a new Chairman.
The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders.
The n Reviewed, amended and approved its own Terms of Reference.
Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with analysts n Approved Directors for reappointment and re-election at the AGM.
and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of the n Considered the composition of the Boards committees.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director n Conducted an internal review of its own effectiveness.
are also available to attend such meetings, if required.
Each of the other non-executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend The terms of appointment for the non-executive Directors are available meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by for inspection on the Companys website halfordscompany.
The Companys investor relations programme In view of the appointment of Dennis Millard on 28 May 2009 the includes formal presentations of full year and interim results.
Feedback discussion on Board size, structure, composition and succession has from these meetings is provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary been held over for future consideration.
is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including Remuneration Committee private investors.
For the financial period to 3 April 2009, the Remuneration Committee comprised Keith Harris Chairman, Nigel Wilson, Bill Ronald and prior to his resignation Richard Pym.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald are all independent non-executive Directors.
indd 45 25 06 2009 15:39 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Financial Statements The findings of these risk-based audits are reported initially to executive are the primary means used by the Board for communicating management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
during the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, the also recognises the importance of the Internet as a means of Audit Committee along with details of progress against action plans as communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and an investor appropriate.
com has been developed to The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental facilitate communications with shareholders.
Information available online to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward includes copies of the full and half-year financial statements, press profile and there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating releases and Company news, corporate governance information and the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related statements and the terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and controls.
The key elements of this process are: Remuneration Committees.
n a comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key executives, The Board is committed to the constructive use of the AGM as a forum identifying performance against budget, analysis of variances, to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their major business issues, key performance indicators and regular questions about the Group and its business.
The AGM of the Group forecasting: is to be held on 29 July 2009 at The Alveston Manor Hotel, Stratfordupon-Avon.
Notice of this meeting together with an explanatory n well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital circular describing any items of special business, will be sent out at expenditure and treasury operations: least 21 days before the date of the meeting.
The Chairmen of the n reviews of key business risks and of managements controls and Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will normally attend plans to mitigate these risks: and the meeting and will answer questions that may be relevant to the work n an annual corporate governance confirmation made to the Board of those Committees.
If they are unable to attend they will appoint a by all Directors on the effectiveness of the identification of major deputy to attend in their place.
It is the Companys practice to propose risks and of the monitoring of internal controls within their areas of separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue at the AGM.
The Chairman will advise shareholders on the proxy voting details for each resolution after it has been put to the meeting.
As part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key business risks faced by the Group the Board has The Companys financial calendar is set out on the inside back cover.
established a Risk Management Group to oversee the implementation Internal control and risk management of the risk management framework, co-ordinate risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control activities throughout the business and to report to the Board and and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group and ensuring Audit Committee on risk issues.
The Risk Management Group is that there is a process in accordance with the guidelines laid down by chaired by the Company Secretary and includes senior managers the Turnbull Report to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks from Store Operations, Business Systems, Health & Safety, Human that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Resources, Finance, Store Assurance, Business Services, International, Multichannel, Logistics and Supply Chain functions.
The Group is The assessment of effectiveness has been carried out this year.
The advised by Deloitte LLP, the Groups internal Auditors.
system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only Through its normal business operations, the Company is exposed to reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement a number of principal risks and uncertainties which could impact the or loss.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the on the results of the Company.
These, together with their mitigating effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk controls, are described in the Finance Directors report on pages management in accordance with the Combined Code for the financial 20 to 23. period to 3 April 2009, and up to the date of approving the Annual By order of the Board Report and Financial Statements.
Deloitte LLP, as independent advisers, are formally engaged to provide ALEX HENDERSON COMPANY SECRETARY internal audit services, reporting to the Board, via the Audit Committee.
10 JUNE 2009 Their principal role in fulfilling the Internal Audit function is to review the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each year.
The nature and scope of this annual audit programme is determined by the Audit Committee at the beginning of each calendar year and may be revised from time to time according to changing business circumstances and requirements.
