qxp:Halma 26 6 09 09:53 Page 52 DIRECTORS REPORT Audit committee report Jane Aikman Chairman of the Audit Committee MEMBERS Activities Jane Aikman Chairman The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the Company, Stephen Pettit but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the effectiveness Richard Stone of the Groups internal control process.
Combined with the Committees review of the internal and external audit functions, it is able to obtain The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
More specically, Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include the Committee: all matters indicated by the Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to reviewed the March 2009 report and financial statements, the the Board for approval.
September 2008 half-yearly report and the Interim Management Statements issued in July and February.
As part of this review the Responsibilities Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any of the Annual report and financial statements: formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems including reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures whistleblowing procedures: made in the annual report and financial statements on this matter: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken audit function: by the auditors: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the auditors for their audit of the March 2009 financial statements: appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewed its own effectiveness: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence undertook an evaluation of the performance of the Internal Audit function and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into including the appointment of a dedicated Internal Audit manager: consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and agreed a programme of work for the companys Internal Audit function: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the received reports from the Internal Audit Coordinator on the work external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account undertaken by Internal Audit and management responses to proposals relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit The full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to or be obtained from the Company Secretary.
provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
Governance As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the external The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year with Jane Aikman assuming the chair from fellow member, Stephen Pettit, auditor-related activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has mid-year.
All three members are independent non-executive Directors recommended to the Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and representatives Group Internal Audit Coordinator to receive, in confidence, complaints from the Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related provide appropriate advice.
The Committee routinely meets with the matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Auditors without the involvement of the executive Directors: the On behalf of the Audit Committee Committee meets at least three times per year.
The Board has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
Her background is as a chartered accountant and finance director with Jane Aikman listed company experience.
Chairman 52 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009
