GOVERNANCE Nomination committee report Geoff Unwin Chairman of the Nomination Committee MEMBERS Governance Geoff Unwin Chairman The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial year.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed to be Richard Stone independent upon appointment to the Board.
Three of the five members Stephen Pettit of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in Jane Aikman accordance with provision A.
The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonActivities executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.
The Nomination The Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate executive and Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board.
During the past Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the year, one such appointment has been made: Adam Meyers as an Nomination Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Responsibilities When the necessity to appoint a Director is identied, a candidate prole regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the is developed indicating the ideal skills, knowledge and experience skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to required taking into account the Boards existing composition.
External its current position and making recommendations to the Board with search consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive regard to any changes: Directors and are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for succession planning.
The Committee meets at least annually and more giving full consideration to succession planning for directors and frequently during times that a search is being conducted.
other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and what skills As noted on page 48, the process of appointments to the Board is and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future: and paramount in ensuring the Companys performance is maintained and continually improved upon.
The Committee is committed to being responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of identifying the right candidates to take Halma forward.
the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee The full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website or be obtained from the Company Secretary.
