DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Geoff Unwin Chairman Corporate governance is about behaviour and this section of the report Board committees deals with how the Board and its committees discharge their duties and Our committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance how we apply the principles of good governance in the Combined Code structure.
The workload of the committees is far more than the table of on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the scheduled meetings on page 49 would indicate as ad hoc meetings Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to and communications between meetings frequently require considerable shareholders.
Governance is complex, so the Board is committed to the amounts of time.
As with the Boards composition, I am equally comfortable shared endeavour of maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
that the composition of all of our committees remains appropriate.
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in Board performance accordance with the principles of corporate governance contained in The Board evaluates its performance and that of the Remuneration, Audit the Combined Code not by merely following regimented rules, but by and Nomination Committees at least annually.
Each year, we consult the the promotion of wide discussion on topics to which Board members Board to determine whether an external facilitator would enhance our properly contribute, demonstrating mutual engagement amongst the process.
To date, we have concluded that the current, open climate that participants.
In the spirit of comply or explain, the Board has again this the Board enjoys ensures a full and frank discussion of all matters, so an year re-afrmed its decision to retain a Board composition that differs external facilitator is unnecessary.
For 2008 09 the evaluation commenced from the Combined Code principles.
with an updated self-assessment questionnaire, the results of which I continue to be pleased with the progress Halma has made to ensure were compiled by the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board best practice is maintained and we continually seek to improve our at the February 2009 Board meeting.
The Board also met in February practices for the benefit of our shareholders.
2009, separate from any scheduled meeting, for a general discussion on Board effectiveness followed by a meeting of the executive Directors Succession planning with the Chairman, a meeting of the Chairman and non-executive I have always maintained that a key part of my role involves ensuring Directors, and then a meeting of the non-executive Directors without the that the right people are doing the right jobs within the Group and that Chairman present.
The outcomes of these meetings were then fed back there is a sufficient cadre of individuals being nurtured throughout the to individuals by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or Chief Group to enable effective succession planning.
Reviews of management Executive, as appropriate.
Overall, our process confirms that the blend capabilities and potential are performed on a routine basis and I am of behaviours and skills around the Halma Board table are well suited satisfied that sufficient resource within the Group exists and continues to the task and consistent with Group values.
With a Board that is free to to be developed through programmes such as the Halma Executive openly express concerns comes more considered outcomes emphasising Development Programme which itself evolves to meet the changing collective responsibility, transparency, clarity and sustainable conduct.
Where a need for improvement to management resources is identied, the necessary attention is provided to ensure Shareholder communication full strength is attained as soon as practicable.
I would like to encourage all shareholders to nd the time to attend our AGM on 30 July 2009.
It is an excellent opportunity to meet the Board, Board appointments the Executive Board and a selection of the CEOs from our operating In April 2008 we appointed Adam Meyers to the Board in contemplation companies.
of Keith Roys retirement at the end of July 2008.
Adam provides another international dimension to the Board since he is based in the USA and we are benefiting from having him at the Board table.
Geoff Unwin Our Board composition is discussed further on page 49 since it is a Chairman deviation from the Combined Code in that half of the Board, excluding myself, is not made up of independent non-executive Directors.
However, I wanted to add my own conrmation here that I am entirely satisfied that our preferred composition of the Board is appropriate to Halma and is one which all of the non-executive Directors support.
No shareholder has ever raised this matter with me and, indeed, when I sought shareholders support, first at the 2005 AGM and again at the 2008 AGM, it was unanimous.
48 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 GOVERNANCE Compliance with the Code of best practice Committees of the Board Throughout the financial year, the Company complied with the Code Halma has six committees of the Board: the Remuneration Committee, provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Share Plans Corporate Governance, as amended in June 2006, except in respect of Committee, the Bank Guarantees and Facilities Committee and the provisions A.
3.2 which involves the composition of the Board and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
number of members who are independent non-executive Directors.
Each of these committees has terms of reference approved by the Board, The Board reafrmed its decision to maintain the composition of the copies of which are available on the website or on request from the Board as a Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors and Company Secretary.
four executive Directors and recognises that this composition was not Internal control achieved from 3 April 2008 to 31 July 2008 whilst Keith Roys and Adam The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for the Groups Meyers directorships overlapped for reasons of succession planning.
system of internal control, and responsibility for reviewing its effectiveness Prior to permitting this imbalance to occur, the Chairman and nonhas been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Whilst not providing absolute executive Directors sought assurance from the Chief Executive that he assurance against material misstatements or loss, this system is designed was unaware of any significant matters to be brought to the Boards to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impact the attention prior to Keith Roys retirement on 31 July 2008.
After Keith Roys achievement of the Groups objectives.
The principal risks are detailed retirement, the Board was restored to its preferred composition.
Board adjudged this composition as the most appropriate structure for Following publication by the Turnbull Committee of the guidance for the Company providing valuable direct knowledge of operations and a directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors robust debate surrounding the issues facing the Group in the present on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing and future as well as ensuring a good mix of skills and experience.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Application of the principles of good governance faced by the Group, that this has been in place for the year under review The Group is controlled and directed by a Board consisting of a and up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
This Chairman, four executive Directors five from 3 April 2008 to 31 July 2008 process has been reviewed by the Board and the Group accords with and three other non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on the Turnbull guidance.
The Board considers the Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors to be independent.
In assessing independence, The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, have audited the financial statements and have reviewed the internal financial control systems the Board considers that the Chairman and non-executive Directors are independent of management and free from business and other to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit report.
relationships which could interfere with the exercise of independent The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted a schedule judgment now and in the future.
The Board believes that any of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
This procedure shareholdings of the Chairman and non-executive Directors serve is intended to ensure that the Directors maintain full and effective control to align their interests with those of all shareholders.
Richard Stone is over all significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
acknowledged as the Senior Independent Director.
Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered appropriate training.
Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which spreads the Groups activities across a number of autonomous subsidiary Each Director is subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Chairman confirms that Richard Stone, who is standing for re-election, companies.
Each of these companies operates with a high quality board of directors including a finance executive.
continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to his role.
Richard Stones triennial re-election occurs one year prior to the ninth Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes but anniversary of his election to the Board.
Richard Stone has indicated is not limited to: his willingness to continue as a Director whilst succession planning a dened organisational structure with an appropriate delegation is considered and the Board has accepted that his independence is of authority to operational management which ensures appropriate not compromised by this extension of his term of ofce.
segregation of key duties: The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate the identication and appraisal of risks both formally, through the strategy, investment decisions, and treasury and risk management policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through decision and the Board meets at least six times each year with further an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an agenda and informally through close monitoring of operations: comprehensive board papers in the week preceding each Board a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the and forecast results are compared with approved budgets and Company Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for the previous years gures on a monthly basis and reviewed at obtaining independent professional advice.
both local and Group level: Board and Committee meeting attendance an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee of approval for all capital expenditure: meetings was as follows: self-certication by operating company management of compliance Remuneration Audit Nomination and control issues: and Board Committee Committee Committee a prescribed robust structure under which it is appropriate to adopt Total scheduled meetings 64 3 1 means of electronic communication and to conduct e-commerce.
Geoff Unwin 64 N A 1 The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness Andrew Williams 6 N A N A 1 of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below.
Kevin Thompson 6 N A N A N A Operating companies carry out a detailed, relevant risk assessment Neil Quinn 6 N A N A N A each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each Richard Stone 64 3 1 significant risk.
This year there was an additional scrutiny of the risks Stephen Pettit 64 3 1 related to the current economic environment and actions were determined as appropriate.
A risk register is compiled from this Jane Aikman 64 3 1 information, against which action is monitored through to resolution.
Adam Meyers 6 N A N A N A Group management also compile a summary of significant Group Keith Roy 3 N A N A N A risks, documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid the risk.
Keith Roy attended all meetings up to the date of his retirement from the Board.
com 49 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance continued Each month the board of each operating company meets, discusses After making enquiries and after conducting a formal review of the and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks Groups financial resources, the Directors have a reasonable expectation facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional Chief Executive that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue chairs this meeting.
Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Chief Executive and Finance Director and report progress to the they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Executive Board.
A set of warning signs is reported to Group and divisional management.
Investor relations This report is designed to provide an early warning of potential risks In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts the Chief Executive and to direct appropriate action where necessary.
and Finance Director communicate the Groups strategy and results, disclosing such information as is permitted within the guidelines of The Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma p. l. c. Board the Listing Rules.
Such meetings ensure that institutional shareholders meeting which includes financial information, the main features of representing over 50% of the Companys issued share capital meet Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks facing the or hold discussions with the Company on a regular basis.
shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet with the Cyclical internal control visits are carried out by internal audit personnel Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
or senior finance staff resulting in actions fed back to each company All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting, and followed up by Divisional Finance Directors and Divisional Chief and major shareholders are also invited to briengs following the halfExecutives.
Visit reports are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all year and annual results.
The content of presentations to shareholders such visits reported to the Audit Committee regularly with any significant and analysts at results announcements and all announcements are control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior available on the Group website, www.
finance staff also conduct financial reviews at each operating company prior to publication of half year and year end gures.
The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest Annual report and accounts, Half-year reports, biographical information on The Chief Executive and Finance Director report to the Audit Committee key Directors and Ofcers, share price information, and full subsidiary on all aspects of internal control for its review.
The Board receives the company contact details as well as hotlinks to their own websites.
The papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings and uses these website also features the facility to request e-mail alerts relating to as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
announcements made by the Group and contains information in During the year, actions to strengthen the control environment Chinese, French, German and Spanish as well as English.
continue to be taken centrally by Group management.
The duties The Financial calendar is set out on page 100. and responsibilities of subsidiary management have been claried and documented in a manual circulated to all subsidiary managing Auditor independence directors: further resources were dedicated to identify and investigate The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing auditor independence potential acquisitions and to ensure a rapid and successful integration and objectivity annually.
During 2003 04, the Committee set down the following acquisition: and the scope of the Groups IT policies was Policy on Auditor Independence and Services provided by the External extended, including a programme of compliance audits which Auditor.
This policy states that the Group will only use the appointed commenced in early 2008. external auditor for non-audit services in cases where these services do not conict with the auditors independence.
The policy also sets As noted above, a programme of internal control visits is conducted.
a fee level per project of 100,000 above which non-audit services Following its review of internal control activities in 2004, the Audit are subject to a tendering process.
The above fee levels for non-audit Committee established an internal audit function for independent services regarding the external auditors are also subject to an annual reporting of the outcome of these visits to the Audit Committee.
cap equal to the audit fee.
During the year we implemented further improvements to our Internal Audit activities as the result of several benchmarking activities previously conducted.
As a result further improvements have been targeted for the coming year to enhance our processes particularly following the appointment of a dedicated Internal Audit manager in September 2008.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Business Review.
In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to currency and liquidity risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources including a 165m five-year revolving credit facility together with contracts with a diverse range of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
No one customer accounts for more than 3% of Group turnover.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
50 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009
