Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued The Nomination Committee identies and selects candidates whereby actual and potential conicts of interest and duties in connection with any proposed new appointments of are advised to the Company Secretary and are reviewed directors and makes recommendations to the Board in annually.
Appropriate authorisations are sought for any respect of such appointments.
ad-hoc notications of any new conicts of interest or duties, or any changes to existing conicts of interest or duties.
No new directors were appointed to the Board during the The Board has undertaken a review of these procedures and financial year.
As part of the review of the effectiveness of considers them to have operated effectively during the year.
the Board and its Committees, during the year there was a review of the composition of the Board to determine whether Internal control it remained sufficient for the needs of the Company.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness.
Remuneration Committee The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of the Mrs L M S Knox, an independent non-executive director, Groups internal controls to the Audit Committee.
A review chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Messrs C W Eccleshare, has been completed for the year ended 30 June 2009 in P S Harrison, R J Smelt and P H Stoneham were members of accordance with the recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
the Committee throughout the year.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to manage risks, The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure the reliability of Board, the remuneration and benets of the Chairman and information used both within the business and for publication.
executive directors of the Company and monitors the levels of Systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the remuneration and benets of selected senior managers of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide Group.
In formulating its remuneration policy, the Remuneration only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Committee gives full consideration to the matters set out in misstatement or loss.
The key features of the internal control Schedule A to the Code.
The Groups remuneration policy is systems which operated throughout the period covered by the described in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 66. financial statements and up to the date of signing the accounts The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of nonare described below.
executive directors, after taking into account fees payable by Day-to-day responsibility for the management and operations comparable companies and receiving external advice.
There of the business has been delegated to the Chief Executive and has been no change to the fees of the non-executive directors his Management Board, comprising the Group Finance Director, in the year.
The fees were last reviewed in June 2008.
Regional Managing Directors, the Group Human Resources Director, the Group Marketing Director, the Group IT Director Audit Committee and the Company Secretary who is also the General Legal Mr P S Harrison chairs the Audit Committee.
The Company Secretary also acts as Secretary to and Messrs C W Eccleshare and P H Stoneham were members the Management Board.
Clear levels of authority exist for of the Committee throughout the year.
the Management Board in their day-to-day activities.
As far The Audit Committee monitors the appropriateness of financial as possible, the business units are given autonomy, whilst statements and announcements, monitors the relationship with operating within an established internal control environment, the external auditors and their independence and reviews the as set out in the Group Policies and Procedures Manual.
This Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
A manual is designed to ensure that significant risks, investment full report on the activities of the Audit Committee is included decisions and management issues are escalated to Board level on pages 52 and 53. at the earliest appropriate opportunity.
The Group Policies and Procedures Manual is updated on an ongoing basis to reect Conicts of interest changes in procedures as and when they occur.
The Groups In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy outlines the way in which Association were amended at the 2008 Annual General employees are expected to conduct themselves when carrying Meeting to allow the Board to authorise actual and potential out their business activities.
conicts of interest and duties that may arise and to impose such limits and conditions as it thinks t. Conicts of interest Certain specic administrative functions are controlled and duties can only be authorised by those directors who do centrally by the Group.
Taxation, treasury and insurance not have an interest in the matter being considered, and in functions report to the Board via the Group Finance Director.
making such decision, the directors must act in a way they The legal, compliance and health and safety functions report consider, in good faith, will most likely promote the success to the Board via the Company Secretary.
Procedures are clearly of the Company.
The Company has established a procedure dened to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce 48 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 the risk prole of the organisation.
An overview of the Groups The annual general meeting is used as an opportunity to treasury policy is set out on page 32.
The Group has an ongoing communicate with all shareholders.
In addition, preliminary process for the identication, evaluation and reporting of major results, half yearly results and quarterly interim management business risks, the results of which are outlined in the Principal statements are posted on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, Risks statement on page 33.
Progress on the management of as soon as they are announced.
Also, at least four times a year, key issues is reported through the management structure to the Company hosts a teleconference for analysts and investors.
executive management and to the Board.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday, 11 November 2009, is contained in the separate The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial Circular to Shareholders and was either sent or made available reporting process.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
This process includes the identication Each substantially separate issue is proposed in the Notice and quantication of significant risks relating to markets and of Annual General Meeting as a separate resolution and operations.
Monthly performance is reported against budget there are separate resolutions relating to the Annual Report and prior year.
The monthly management accounts analyse and and Financial Statements and the directors Remuneration explain variances against budget and report on key indicators, Report.
Furthermore, it is intended that the Chairmen of with detailed explanations for variances and movements in the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees will forecasts provided to the Board.
be present at the Annual General Meeting.
The Group has an Internal Audit department.
The resources of this department are focused on facilitating the identication Restrictions on voting deadlines of risks and carrying out review and testing of the controls in The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for place to mitigate them.
The teams resource is augmented with exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote independent expert external resources, wherever necessary, to at a general meeting.
It is the Companys policy at present to take review risk and monitor compliance with the Groups policies all resolutions at a general meeting on a poll and the results of the and procedures.
Regular reviews of the most important controls poll are published on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, shortly are undertaken to ensure that key control objectives are achieved.
Reports on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls are regularly presented to executive management and to the significant direct and indirect holdings of securities Audit Committee and recommendations are agreed upon As at 2 September 2009, the Company had been notied of the and implemented.
following voting rights attaching to Hays shares in accordance The monitoring of control procedures is achieved through with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United review by executive management reporting to the Board.
This Kingdom Listing Authority: is supplemented by reviews undertaken by the Internal Audit % of total department of the controls in operation in the business units.
voting rights These processes have successfully been applied for the year Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd 9.93% under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Chainpoint Limited 5.81% Report and Financial Statements.
Majedie Asset Management Ltd 5.03% This internal control statement has been reviewed and approved Baillie Gifford & Co Below 5% by the Audit Committee.
Capital Research and Management Co 4.54% Legal & General Group 3.99% Relations with shareholders Barclays Global Investors 3.96% The executive directors of the Company have a regular dialogue with analysts and substantial shareholders.
All non-executive An update will be provided in the Notice of the 2009 Annual directors are aware of the programme of proposed visits and General Meeting.
Investors are offered the opportunity to meet the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman.
Published broker reports are circulated to the Board which considers any issues raised within them.
The Groups advisers maintain a dialogue with major shareholders and after each investor roadshow compile a report of shareholders views on key issues and management performance.
A summary of this report is subsequently provided to the Board.
com 49 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association provide additional disclosures when compliance with the At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, a special resolution will specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the existing to understand the impact of particular transactions, other Articles of Association, primarily to accommodate provisions events and conditions on the entitys financial position and contained in the Companies Act 2006 and the implementation financial performance.
of The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent Company Details of the proposed amendments can be found in the accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Notice of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Articles of Association ordinarily can only be amended by Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company accounts a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these accounts, the Going concern directors are required to: The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as the directors are satisfied that the Group has select suitable accounting policies and then apply them adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the consistently: foreseeable future.
Further details can be found in note 2 to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the consolidated financial statements on page 71. prudent: and Directors responsibilities state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements and explained in the accounts.
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Corporate The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting law requires the directors to prepare financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the for each financial year.
The directors are required by the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation to that the parent Company accounts comply with the Companies prepare the Group financial statements under International Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial governing the preparation and dissemination of financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be Group: and achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the properly select and apply accounting policies: Group, together with a description of the principal risks and present information, including accounting policies, in a manner uncertainties that it faces.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and 50 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Disclosure of information to auditors As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the directors as at 2 September 2009 confirms that: a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Words and phrases used in this conrmation should be interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
com 51 Directors Report Governance Audit Committee Report Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Committee and the Company Chairman, who is not a member of the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to the Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
The Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors and two members constitute a quorum.
Role of the Audit Committee The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the Companys website, haysplc.
com and are also available from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor the appropriateness of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the financial performance including any significant judgements: recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors: monitor the relationship with the external auditors, including consideration of their fees, the audit scope and the terms of their engagement: Paul Harrison Audit Committee Chairman review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit as well as the external auditors independence: review the policy on engagement of the external auditors for the provision of non-audit services and monitor compliance: review the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonexecutive directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit terms of reference include all matters indicated by the June function: and 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code ensure the Company maintains suitable arrangements for published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Further employees to raise concerns in confidence.
information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, frc.
The terms of reference Activities of the Audit Committee are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then The Committee met four times during the financial year referred to the Board for approval.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 46.
Composition of the Audit Committee Mr P S Harrison, an independent non-executive director, chairs During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities the Audit Committee.
Mrs L M S Knox and Messrs C W Eccleshare as follows: and P H Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout Financial statements the year.
The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual financial Mr Harrison, a Chartered Accountant, is the Group Finance statements and half yearly report prior to recommending Director of The Sage Group plc.
As such, he is considered their approval to the Board.
The Committee discussed suitably qualied to be the Audit Committee Chairman.
with the executive directors and external auditors the At the invitation of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted, significant Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, Head of estimates and judgements, whether the financial statements Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and external auditors gave a true and fair view and the appropriateness of the going regularly attend.
52 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 External auditors Internal Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to The Audit Committee oversees the Internal Audit function.
the Board for approval by the shareholders the appointment In the previous financial year, the Committee assessed of the external auditors.
Deloitte LLP are the external auditors the performance of Internal Audit through an external of the Company, and under ethical guidance, they are required review carried out by BDO Stoy Hayward LLP.
Certain to introduce a new audit partner every five years.
The current recommendations have been implemented during the audit partner has been in place for three years.
year, with an increased focus on the role of Internal Audit in relation to the risk assessment process.
In line with its terms of reference, the Committee undertakes a thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and The Committee also reviewed the Internal Audit activities, independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP on an annual including the annual audit plan and resource requirements.
basis, seeking the views and feedback of the Audit Committee The plan has delivered both geographic and financial coverage and fellow Board members, together with those of Group and as well as risk-based assurance behind key programmes divisional management.
There are no contractual restrictions and central processes, such as the treasury function and on the Committee as to the choice of external auditors.
The Committee considered the scope and materiality for the The Committee received details of all key audit findings and audit work, approved the audit fee and reviewed the results management updates on progress made in implementing of the audit work.
The Committee has met the external auditors without The Committee has met the internal auditors without management being present several times during the year.
The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement Raising concerns in confidence of Deloitte LLP for non-audit services and confirmed the The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups procedures applicability of that policy in satisfying itself that their enabling employees to raise concerns in confidence.
independence and objectivity was not impaired.
Employees are able to raise concerns or report compliance issues through an independent third-party organisation.
The The key features of this policy are as follows: Committee receives reports of any serious concerns raised at work closely related to the audit e. g. taxation or financial each meeting.
reporting matters can be awarded to Deloitte LLP by the Audit Committee effectiveness executive directors provided the work does not exceed The Audit Committee prepared and reviewed with the 150,000 in fees per item: and Board an annual performance evaluation, which concluded all other work either requires Audit Committee approval or that the Committee has acted in accordance with its terms of reference, is operating effectively and met all legal and forms part of a list of prohibited services, where it is felt regulatory requirements.
As part of this review, the Chairman independence or objectivity may be compromised.
of the Audit Committee met with each Committee member The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed individually to discuss the findings and to obtain feedback.
by Deloitte LLP in the year and has concluded that the policy The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the has been applied and their independence and objectivity has Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the not been impaired as a result.
Details of fees paid to Deloitte work of the Committee.
LLP during the financial year are set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements on page 76.
On behalf of the Audit Committee.
After due and careful consideration, taking account of the Paul Harrison processes above, the Committee has recommended to the Audit Committee Chairman Board that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 November 2009.
Internal controls and risk management The Audit Committee reviewed the Companys internal controls and risk management systems by considering the Groups risk assessment process and the effectiveness of the controls to mitigate those risks.
It considered the results of testing performed by both the internal and external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness of such controls.
