Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information Directors Rights and obligations of Ordinary shares The following were directors during the year and held office On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of throughout the year: Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member present R A Lawson, Chairman in person or by proxy, shall have one vote for every Ordinary A R Cox, Chief Executive share held.
In accordance with the provisions of the Articles P Venables, Group Finance Director of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to a C W Eccleshare dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for P S Harrison such purposes.
On return of capital on a winding up, holders L M S Knox of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in such a return.
R J Smelt Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association will be P H Stoneham proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to take Independent non-executive directors.
account of the provisions of The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009.
These will include measures relating In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, to the votes of proxies and multiple corporate representatives Messrs A R Cox, P S Harrison and Mrs L M S Knox will retire by at general meetings of the Company.
Further information can rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at be found in the Circular to Shareholders accompanying the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Biographical details for all directors are shown on page 45.
Restrictions on transfers of securities Structure of share capital The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are As at 30 June 2009, the Companys authorised share capital as follows: of 88,980,947 comprised 8,898,094,700 Ordinary shares The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving of 1 pence each.
As at 30 June 2009, the Companys issued any reason, refuse to register the transfer of a certicated share capital of 14,640,965.66 comprised 1,464,096,566 share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does Ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
No shares were allotted not prevent dealing in shares in the Company from taking during the year.
Under the Companies Act 2006, companies place on an open and proper basis.
will no longer need to have an authorised share capital and a resolution will be put to the Companys shareholders at the The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a forthcoming Annual General Meeting to take advantage of this certicated share unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, deregulating measure.
duly stamped if stampable, at the office or at another place appointed by the Board accompanied by the certicate for During the year, from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2009, the the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Company purchased 1,717,597 Ordinary shares of 1 pence at a Board may reasonably require to show the right of the weighted average price, including transaction costs, of 79.02 transferor to make the transfer.
pence and the total aggregate consideration was 1,357,320.70.
The percentage of issued capital purchased was 0.1%.
The Board may refuse to register a transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Chapter 6 of part 18 of the Companies Act allows companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, Where a shareholder has declined to provide certain rather than having to cancel them.
The directors may use the information requested by the Company in accordance with authority to purchase shares and hold them in treasury and the Companies Act, the Board can in certain circumstances subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted apply to the court for an order directing that the shares in in accordance with the Act rather than cancel them, subject question be subject to restrictions.
If an order is so made, to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
The shares any transfer of or any agreement to transfer the shares purchased by the Company in the year were held in treasury.
will be void and no voting rights will be exercisable in At 30 June 2009, 82,024,582 Ordinary shares of 1 pence were respect of them.
27,335 shares held in treasury were transferred Restrictions may be imposed on certain Group employees during the year to 30 June 2009 to satisfy awards of shares under who are required to seek approval from the Company before the Companys employee share schemes and a further 6,306,657 dealing in shares in accordance with the requirements of the shares were transferred to the Hays plc Employee Share Trust Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
to satisfy future option exercises under the Hays UK Sharesave Scheme.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held Awards of shares under the Companys incentive arrangements, in treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
the Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan are subject to restrictions on transfer of shares prior to vesting.
54 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its Auditors shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of On 1 December 2008, Deloitte & Touche LLP changed its name shares and or voting rights.
Deloitte LLP have indicated that they are willing to continue in office.
Their re-appointment, at a remuneration to Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes be agreed by the directors, will be proposed at the forthcoming Certain share awards under Company incentive arrangements Annual General Meeting.
are held in trust on behalf of the beneciaries.
The trustee of the Hays Employee Trust Share does not seek to exercise the Change of control significant agreements voting rights on these shares.
No voting rights are exercised The Company has entered into one significant agreement in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneciaries.
that contains provisions that allow a counterparty to alter and amend the terms of the agreement following a change of Directors indemnities and insurance control of the Company.
The details are as follows: The Company continues to maintain directors and officers a revolving credit facility with a number of banks for 460 liability insurance.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of million was entered into on 8 February 2006.
In the event of a Association, it is the Companys policy for each director and the change of control of the Company, the lenders are entitled to Company Secretary & General Legal Counsel to be indemnified renegotiate certain terms.
As at 30 June 2009, 408.0 million by deeds of indemnity.
Employees There are no provisions contained within the service contracts The Group is committed to developing its employees and of executive directors that will trigger in the event of a change investing in training tailored to meet the needs of the business, of control.
including both structured training and on-the-job training and There are a number of commercial contracts that would alter briengs.
A leadership development programme for our top in the event of a change in control, but none is considered to global leaders is under way as part of our continued commitment be material in terms of the potential impact on the Group in to developing talent in our business.
As part of creating a stimulating place to work, there are a Certain of the Companys share award plans contain provisions number of ways to ensure our employees are involved in the that permit awards or options to vest or become exercisable on business and issues relating to its performance, including a change of control in accordance with the rules of the plans.
senior management briengs, employee brieng groups, email messaging and the intranet.
To encourage employees to have a This Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 55 has been stake in the business, there are also a number of share schemes.
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: As a responsible employer of thousands of people, the Alison Yapp Group is committed to equal opportunities and its policy Company Secretary ensures that everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the business regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, sexuality, 2 September 2009 physical appearance, religion, education and beliefs.
Registered Office 250 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF The Group has a structured approach towards internal Company Registered in England and Wales No.
2150950 recruitment and promotion with decisions based on an individuals ability to perform the role.
This means that full Cautionary statement consideration is given to disabled applicants where they have the This Annual Report comprising the Directors Report on pages 2 to 55 and the Remuneration right skills and abilities for the role.
Should an employee become Report on pages 56 to 66 and the financial statements on pages 68 to 92 and 94 to 99 Report have been prepared solely in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and disabled whilst working for the Group, every effort is made to with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services nd a suitable alternative role and to assist with any retraining.
Certain information and statements are not audited.
Statements in this Report reect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
Certain statements The Groups commitment to training and development includes included or incorporated by reference within this Report may constitute forward-looking consideration of any special training needs of disabled employees.
statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and or financial condition.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties More information on the Groups engagement with employees and assumptions and actual results or events may differ materially from those expressed or implied by those statements.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular is set out in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 40. expectation will be met and reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statement.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
No responsibility Payments to creditors or obligation is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement resulting from new It is the Groups policy to make payments to suppliers in information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell, or any accordance with agreed terms provided that the supplier has solicitation of any offer to purchase any shares in the Company, nor shall it, or any part of it, or performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
the fact of its distribution form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or Creditor days for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2009 commitment or investment decisions relating thereto, nor does it constitute a recommendation regarding the shares of the Company.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to were an average of 31 2008 25.
The Company creditor days future performance.
Liability arising from anything in this Report shall be governed by English at 30 June 2009 were 31 2008 25.
Nothing in this Report shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made during the year totalled 197,054 2008 70,000.
Details of the Groups charitable activities are given on pages 41 and 42.
No payments were made to political parties.
