Corporate Governance Report The Directors recognise the importance of maintaining good corporate governance practices.
This report demonstrates the commitment to applying the highest industry standards of business ethics, health and safety, environment, risk management and corporate social responsibility throughout the Group.
The Company is incorporated in Jersey where there is no formal initiating processes for reviewing Director appointment and code relating to corporate governance.
However, the Board succession planning: recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure good governance of establishing a Reserves Committee: and the Company in order to help it fulfil its obligations to all its establishing a CSR Committee.
It is, therefore, strongly committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance has decided to adhere, wherever possible, to the provisions of the This report describes the extent to which the Company is in Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 the compliance with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Combined Code, in the same way as if the Company was Code and how it intends to work towards voluntary compliance with incorporated in the United Kingdom.
A copy of the Combined Code those principles going forward.
At the year end, the Board is publicly available on the website of the UK Financial Reporting considers that the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Council www.
The Board continues its commitment to Combined Code, save in the following respects.
The Board has work towards voluntary compliance with the Combined Code in all addressed one area of non-compliance, but believes that material respects.
implementing the remaining changes would be inappropriate at this stage in the Companys strategic development: The Directors recognise the importance of maintaining good Code Provision A.
3.3: Until June 2009, the Company was not corporate governance practices.
This report demonstrates the compliant with the requirement to have a Senior Independent commitment to applying the highest industry standards of business Director.
In June 2009, General Sir Michael Wilkes was appointed ethics, health and safety, environment, risk management and CSR as the Senior Independent Director.
1.6: Notice periods for the Executive Directors are 24 months.
The Company has discussed the Executive The Company maintains a Premium Listing on the Main Market of Directors employment contracts with external advisers and the LSE and is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
As such, the internally within the remuneration committee.
After taking these Directors recognise their responsibility as guardians of the interests views into consideration, the Company has decided, for of a broad range of investors and stakeholders and are determined Board of Directors to continually review and develop the corporate governance The Board is currently comprised of seven Directors, five of whom framework in which the Company operates.
To this end, the Board are Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and three of the has made significant progress in adopting policies and procedures Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent under the to conduct and monitor its activities, along with working practices, terms of the Combined Code.
and to establish a business culture that ensures openness and full accountability.
Developments and initiatives during 2009 and early Chairman 2010 include: The Chairmans role is to ensure the effective running of the Board appointing General Sir Michael Wilkes as the Senior Independent on all aspects of its roles and setting its agenda.
His other key Director: responsibilities include leading the Board, ensuring effective establishing a performance evaluation process for the Board and communication with shareholders, ensuring constructive relations Board Committees and for the Chairman: between all Directors and that all Directors are encouraged to developing a formal framework for remuneration policy across the participate fully in the activities and decision-making process of Company: the Board.
confirming that no annual bonuses would be paid to the Non-Executive Directors: Chief Executive undertaking an independent review of the Chief Executive The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the Officers and Chief Financial Officers remuneration: Groups business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy developing the Companys processes for reviewing the key risks, and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board internal controls and assessments, which are subject to annual and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions review: of the Board and its Committees.
48 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Heritage Oil Governance Structure Communications Chairman SHAREHOLDERS BOARD Elect Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Reserves CSR Committee 4 members Committee Committee Committee 3 members All independent 3 members 3 members 4 members CEO, CFO 1 Non-Executive All independent 2 independent 2 independent NonNon-Executive Directors Non-Executive Non-Executive Executive Directors Director Directors Directors CEO CFO VP Exploration commercial reasons, to retain the existing Executive Director Board.
The Executive Directors have close involvement with the notice period structure because of their importance to the operations of the business through their operational roles.
The business at this stage in its development.
We believe that this Directors are aware of their responsibilities and feel able to raise any policy best protects the interests of our shareholders.
concerns at Board meetings which are minuted accurately in the Code Provision C. 3.1: The Chairman of the Company is a Board meeting minutes.
The Board is supported by a strong and member of, and chairs, the Audit Committee.
The Board believes experienced senior management team.
The biographies of the the Chairman is the most appropriate person to be a member of, Board are set out on page 47. and chair, the Audit Committee given his extensive financial experience.
The Chairman is also considered by the Board to Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior have maintained his independent status.
Independent Director There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Board of Directors Chairman, Michael Hibberd, and the Chief Executive Officer, Role of the Board Anthony Buckingham, to ensure an appropriate balance of The Board recognises the importance of creating and delivering responsibility and accountability.
These responsibilities have been strong sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder formalised in writing and approved by the Board.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls including managing and The Chairmans role is to ensure the effective running of the Board considering the commercial risks and financing needs, the disposal in all aspects of its roles and setting its agenda.
His other key of businesses and assessing the most appropriate balance responsibilities include leading the Board, ensuring effective between acquisition-led growth and organic growth.
Individual communication with shareholders, ensuring that Board Committees Directors evaluate and challenge the Companys business strategy function effectively within their terms of reference, ensuring constantly to ensure they identify areas where improvements can constructive relations between all Directors and that all Directors be made or where new opportunities exist so that strategies remain are encouraged to participate fully in the activities and decisionappropriate and relevant to the Companys business.
In order to making process of the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that the ensure the Company complies with its obligations as a company Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information with all with a Premium Listing on the Main Market of the LSE, the Board Board and Committee meeting information being issued to also has responsibility for communications with shareholders, members in advance.
At each meeting there is an update on health and safety policy and review of the Companys management operational and financial performance including a review of the and financial performance.
Further details of compliance with these performance and future potential of all material assets.
The obligations are set out below.
Chairmans other significant appointments are disclosed to the Board and may be found in the Directors biographies on page 47.
Composition The Board is currently comprised of seven Directors, five of whom The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the Groups are Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and three of the business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy and Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent under the overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and, as terms of the Combined Code.
All of the Directors bring either leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the extensive experience of the oil industry, or a broad range of Board and its Committees.
business, commercial and corporate governance experience, to the 49 Corporate Governance Report continued As part of the Companys commitment to comply with the ensure that transactions and relationships between the Group, Combined Code, General Sir Michael Wilkes was elected as the Albion and Anthony Buckingham are at arms length and on normal Senior Independent Director with the chief responsibility of commercial terms.
The Relationship Agreement prescribes that at maintaining sufficient contact with major shareholders to help all times, the Board shall comprise of a majority of Directors who develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
In are all independent of Anthony Buckingham.
this role General Sir Michael Wilkes is available to shareholders who have concerns that have not been, or cannot be resolved through How the Board Operates discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Board Meetings Financial Officer or where such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior The Board met in formal meetings nine times during the year and Independent Director is also responsible for leading the also engaged informally in numerous ad-hoc information calls which Non-Executive Directors in reviewing the performance of the were not minuted as properly called formal meetings.
The Board will Chairman for the year.
continue to meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties by way of formal Board meetings as well as through ad-hoc meetings as Board Balance and Independence required.
The Board intends to meet at least four times a year.
A The Board comprises the following Directors: formal schedule detailing matters specifically reserved for its decision has been agreed.
The attendance record of each Director Michael Hibberd Chairman and Non-Executive Director at formal Board and committee meetings is shown in the table below.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Anthony Buckingham Chief Executive Officer Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Paul Atherton Chief Financial Officer maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any Salim Macki Non-Executive Director issues of concern they may have relating to the Group or as regards their areas of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on the John McLeod Non-Executive Director Groups operations and initiatives.
Additionally, the Chairman and or Gregory Turnbull Non-Executive Director the Non-Executive Directors met and spoke regularly during the General Sir Michael Wilkes Non-Executive Director and Senior year, and on an ad-hoc basis, without the Executive Directors Independent Director being present.
The Board is satisfied that its composition will ensure that no Committees individual or group of individuals will dominate the decision-making The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to certain process and that there is a strong presence on the Board of both committees in line with recommendations of the Combined Code Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
and to facilitate the business of the Company.
These are the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Reserves and CSR Committees.
The The Board considers that John McLeod, Salim Macki, General Reserves Committee was established in 2009 and met for the first Sir Michael Wilkes and Michael Hibberd are independent in character time in January 2010.
The CSR Committee was established in April and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which 2010.
Further details of these committees and their activities can be may affect their judgement.
The Board acknowledges that John found later in this report on pages 51 to 53 and also in the McLeod does not meet the independence criteria set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 61.
Combined Code as he has served on the Board for more than nine years and was previously granted options.
John McLeods A table of attendance of members of the Board and the main Board performance as Board member and Chairman of the Remuneration Committees at meetings during the year is set out below: Committee was assessed by the other Directors as part of the Boards evaluation process undertaken during the year.
Following this Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee exercise, the Board has satisfied itself that neither of the factors 9 meetings 5 meetings 1 meeting 2 meetings described above impact on John McLeods independence in Michael Hibberd 9 9 5 5 2 2 character and judgement.
His length of service on the Board enhances his ability to perform his duties effectively and helps Anthony Buckingham 9 9 2 2 maintain an appropriate balance between experienced NonPaul Atherton 9 9 Executive Directors and those more recently appointed to the Board.
John McLeod 9 9 5 5 1 1 On appointment, the Chairman was also considered to be 1 Salim Macki 9 9 3 3 1 1 independent and continues to be so.
Gregory Turnbull 9 9 Gregory Turnbull does not meet the independence criteria set out General Sir Michael Wilkes 8 9 5 5 1 1 2 2 by the Combined Code as he is a partner of McCarthy Ttrault LLP, the Canadian legal advisers to the Company.
1 Appointed to the Audit Committee in April 2009.
In addition to the requirements of the Combined Code, the Boards Given the size of the Company, the Board feels that it is in the assessment of independence and effectiveness includes their total shareholders best interests not to employ a Company Secretary at number of commitments, relationships with major suppliers or with this time.
The current Company Secretary is a corporate entity charities receiving material support from the Company.
based in Jersey that deals with the normal statutory compliance for the Company.
The Board and its committees are, therefore, Albion Energy Limited Albion, the Companys largest shareholder serviced by the Company Secretary or its nominee.
The other and Anthony Buckingham entered into a relationship agreement duties that would normally be carried out by the Company with the Company on 28 March 2008 the Relationship Secretary, such as the provision of information flows to the Board, Agreement as part of the process to list the Company on the Main are dealt with by either the Chairman or Chief Financial Officer or Market in 2008.
The purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to 50 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 their nominee.
In terms of corporate governance issues, the Board The assessment concluded that the Board and its Committees is advised by McCarthy Ttrault, a firm of registered foreign lawyers remain effective in terms of operations, decision-making and & solicitors in London.
The Board monitors the provision of leadership.
During the year the Board has built on the review: in Company secretarial duties and takes any action as appropriate to particular by reviewing the succession planning process and by ensure its requirements are met.
The appointment or removal of the making the changes described in the Induction and Continuing Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Professional Development part of this report.
Independent Professional Advice Re-election The Board ensures, in line with Board policy, that all Directors and All Directors appointed other than by shareholders are subject to Committees have access to independent professional advice re-election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting whenever it is required and at the Companys expense.
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors It is the Companys policy that all Directors should retire and stand Non-Executive Directors have executed letters of appointment for re-election at least once every three years.
Details of Directors setting out their respective terms of appointment including the retiring at the forthcoming AGM are shown in the Directors Report expected time commitment which has been agreed and confirmed on page 62. with them.
Further details can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 61.
Board Committees As mentioned above, the Board has five committees, being the Insurance Cover Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Reserves and CSR Committees.
As required by the Combined Code, the Company maintains The duties of these Committees are set out in formal terms of Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover, in respect of any reference, approved by the Board, that are available on the legal action taken against the Directors.
Membership of the committees was reviewed and confirmed during the year.
Induction and Continuing Professional Development The Board believes that the Directors possess a wealth of diverse Audit Committee Report experience and business skills.
Non-Executive Directors are actively Audit Committee n encouraged to take up opportunities for questioning, examining and reviewing the Groups businesses and to undertake training Michael Hibberd, Chairman applicable to their roles.
Salim Macki appointed April 2009 John McLeod Upon joining the Board, if considered appropriate, a Director will General Sir Michael Wilkes participate in an induction programme which helps establish them in their role covering the principles and legal and regulatory duties Main Responsibilities required of them.
This training is tailored to an individuals needs, monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including taking into account their qualifications and experience.
In annual and interim reports and any other formal announcement addition, meetings are arranged with senior management to enable relating to the Groups financial performance: Non-Executive Directors to develop a detailed understanding of the reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of Companys business and of its strategy, and the key risks and which it considers that action or improvement is needed and challenges the Company faces.
making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: considering the establishment of an internal audit function: All Directors have the opportunity to update their skills and reviewing the Groups internal control procedures and risk knowledge on a regular basis, for example through further briefings management systems: on issues, including changes in law and regulation, corporate making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, governance, financial reporting and operational matters.
To build on review and removal of external auditors: the formal induction programme, Directors are encouraged to make establishing the external auditors remuneration: site visits to the Groups operations, and are offered access to monitoring external auditors independence: and company secretarial services or independent professional advice at monitoring the policy on external auditors non-audit services.
the Companys expense, should this be necessary for them to discharge their responsibilities.
All members, including the Chairman, are independent NonExecutive Directors.
Other members of the Board may also be Furthermore, Directors are in regular communication with senior invited to attend as and when appropriate.
The auditors are also executives through both formal and informal ad-hoc meetings, to invited to attend regularly.
ensure the regular exchange of knowledge and experience between management and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Company, Michael Hibberd, is a member of the Audit Committee which is not in line with the recommendations Board Assessment and Effectiveness made in the Smith Guidance on the Combined Code.
However, the During the year the Chairman led a review and assessment of the Board continues to believe that his recent and relevant financial Board and its effectiveness.
This exercise, in which all of the experience, including his experience on corporate financial matters Directors were involved, considered the processes around how the is invaluable in supporting the Audit Committee to perform its role.
Board works, as described above: the effectiveness of Board Committees and their chairmen: and areas such as Board composition, dynamics and leadership.
51 Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc discussions All members, including the Chairman, are independent and meets formally at least twice a year to discharge its Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Board, responsibilities which are set out in its Terms of Reference.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and external advisers Audit Committee also oversees the Companys relationship with its may also be invited to attend as and when appropriate.
external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee pre-approves all audit and non-audit The Remuneration Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc services undertaken by the external auditor, to ensure discussions and meets formally at least once a year.
The Terms of independence of the external auditors is not impaired.
Reference of the Remuneration Committee comply fully with the requirements of the Combined Code.
These were reviewed during In fulfilling its responsibility to monitor the integrity of financial reports the year using the Hay Group, and part of that review involved to shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the accounting consideration of what was considered to be good practice in other principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public listed companies.
financial information and will examine documentation in relation to the Annual Report and annual financial report announcements.
The Further information on the Committee can be found in the ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the interim and Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 61. annual financial statements remains with the Board.
Nomination Committee Report During the year the Audit Committee considered the following main items of business: Nomination Committee s review of operations: review of the integrity of the financial statements and formal Michael Hibberd, Chairman announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: Anthony Buckingham report of the external auditors, KPMG: General Sir Michael Wilkes review of the financial statements: update on internal controls: Main Responsibilities review of whistle-blowing policy: formalising succession planning and the process for new management representation letter and auditor independence: Director appointments: audit engagement letter: identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates for 2009 audit plan and key audit risks: appointment or reappointment as Directors or Company review of the committees Terms of Reference: Secretary taking into account the challenges and opportunities 2010 budget: and facing the Company: potential asset sales and business combinations.
reviewing the structure, size and composition including the balance of knowledge, skills and experience of the Board in At present there is no internal audit function established.
The order to recommend changes to the Board and to ensure the Committee reviewed the need for an internal audit function in 2009 orderly succession of directors: and and again in March 2010 and concurred with the opinion of the reviewing the outside directorships commitments of Board, which maintains that the current control systems in place Non-Executive Directors.
and management oversight are sufficient to highlight any areas of weaknesses in the financial reporting systems.
The need for an The majority of the members are independent Non-Executive internal audit function is kept under review at least annually.
External advisers may also be invited to attend as and when appropriate.
The Committee has the power to request the The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee were reviewed attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all during the year, and part of that review involved consideration of or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the matters considered to be good practice in other listed companies.
Remuneration Committee Report The Nomination Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc Remuneration Committee l discussions and meets formally at least once a year.
The Nomination Committee ensures, amongst other things, that there is John McLeod, Chairman a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of Salim Macki new directors.
The General Sir Michael Wilkes activities that the Nomination Committee are responsible for are set out in its Terms of Reference.
Main Responsibilities setting the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive During the year the Nomination Committee considered the following Directors and senior executives: items of business: assessing and determining total compensation packages the appointment of General Sir Michael Wilkes as Senior available to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Independent Director: monitoring the remuneration of senior management other than induction and professional development policy: the Executive Directors whose remuneration it sets: succession planning: and determining policy and scope for pension rights and any independent evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and the compensation payments and ensuring compliance with the Chairman.
Combined Code in this respect: and making recommendations to the Board for its approval, and that The Terms of Reference of the Committee were reviewed during the of shareholders, on the design of long-term incentive plans and year, and part of that review involved consideration of what was making recommendations for the grant of awards to executives considered to be good practice in other listed companies.
52 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Reserves Committee Report Internal Controls The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Reserves Committee t effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and risk management systems.
The Board has taken into account the John McLeod, Chairman relevant provisions of the Combined Code in formulating the Michael Hibberd systems and procedures in operation in the Company.
The Audit Paul Atherton Committee considers the system to be effective.
Brian Smith, VP Exploration The Companys system of internal controls is designed to manage, Main Responsibilities rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities generally objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute with respect to the oil and natural gas reserves evaluation assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board will process and public disclosure of reserves data and related continue to review and improve its system of internal controls.
information in connection with oil and gas activities: review, at least annually, the Companys procedures relating to The Board recognises the need for effective internal controls and disclosure of information with respect to the oil and gas activities for evaluating and managing the risks of the Company.
Such of the Company, including its procedures for complying with any matters are brought to the attention of the Board at its formal Board disclosure requirements and restrictions: meetings, ad-hoc discussions or via the whistle-blowing policy.
review annually the qualifications and independence of an independent qualified reserves evaluator s to be appointed or High level controls in operation include: re-appointed by the Board and in the case of any proposed review of management accounts with comparison of actual change in the independent qualified reserves evaluator s, performance against prior periods and budget: determine the reasons for the proposed change and whether approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and two signatories there have been any disputes between the appointed qualified required to make a transfer from the principal bank accounts: reserves evaluator s and management of the Company: and quarterly reconciliation of all control accounts: review any public disclosure or regulatory filings with respect to prior approval by the Board for major investments: and any reserves evaluation and oil and gas activities.
segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments.
It was felt appropriate at this stage of development of the Company to establish a Reserves Committee to fulfil the duties above.
The The Board is aware of the need to conduct regular risk Reserves Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc discussions and assessments to identify any deficiencies in the controls currently will formally meet at least once a year.
External advisers may also operating over all aspects of the Company.
A formal risk be invited to attend meetings as and when required.
assessment is conducted periodically during the year on internal controls to cover material controls, both financial and operational, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Report and risk management systems.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee u The risk assessment and a review of the effectiveness of the Paul Atherton, Chairman Groups system of internal controls are performed in accordance with the Turnbull guidance and they were in place for the year end Anthony Buckingham Michael Hibberd review process.
Main Responsibilities Financial reporting procedures were reviewed as part of the maintain the Companys CSR policy framework in line with best process to become listed on the Main Market of the LSE and a practice and appropriate international standards and guidelines: Board memorandum was prepared.
Having considered the develop a framework for submission, assessment and approval findings, the Directors were able to confirm that the financial of discretionary and obligatory community, social, educational reporting procedures established provided them with a reasonable and charitable expenditures undertaken by the Company basis on which to make proper judgements on the financial position worldwide: and prospects of the Company on an ongoing basis.
However, one to prepare the Annual Group CSR Report and ensure that it is main weakness was noted, concerning accounting for complex a fair reflection of the Companys CSR approach, policies, transactions, although the Company seeks third party advice to systems and performance, is coherent and published in a timely mitigate this weakness.
manner: and to review the internal CSR programme of the Company and The Directors recognise the need to maintain financial reporting ensure it has the appropriate standing within the Company.
procedures, to review them on an ongoing basis and to adapt them to changing circumstances and will use the Board memorandum as It was considered appropriate as the Company grows and operates a basis for further developing the Board processes.
in more areas to establish a CSR Committee to fulfil the duties above.
The CSR Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc discussions and Details of principal risks and uncertainties are discussed in the will formally meet at least once a year.
External advisers may also be Financial Review on pages 34 to 37. invited to attend meetings as and when required.
Accountability and Audit Audit Committee Report Details of the Audit Committee and the Audit Committee Report were discussed on pages 51 to 52.
53 Corporate Governance Report continued The Company has a whistle-blowing policy in place and information Throughout 2009, Executive Directors and senior management met is available to all employees advising them that they can raise with institutional investors in London and across the UK as well as concerns in confidence about possible wrong doing by contacting other European and North American cities.
These roadshows, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, whistle-blowing is combined with the attendance of various Directors and or senior an agenda item at Board and Audit Committee meetings with management at several conferences, provided for comprehensive appropriate action taken as required.
and engaging dialogue with shareholders.
Auditor Independence The Group issues its results and other news releases promptly and The Audit Committee and Board recognise the importance of the publishes them on the Companys website at www.
independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Other corporate information, including the Annual Report, any circulars KPMG Audit Plc, when performing their role in the Groups issued during the year and other financial presentations is also reporting to shareholders.
The external auditors are expected to available on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can provide the Audit Committee with information about policies and subscribe to receive news updates by email by registering online on processes for maintaining independence and monitoring the website.
compliance with current regulatory requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff.
Analysis of the Companys shareholder base indicates that there has been a small change in the profile of those holding shares in The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the Heritage in 2009.
There has been an increase in shareholders auditors is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The Audit who classify their investment style as growth offset by declines in Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision of hedge funds.
These are shown on the following two graphs.
non-audit services to the Company by the external auditor.
Fees billed by KPMG Audit Plc, the Companys auditors and its December 2008 associates, during 2008 and 2009, may be summarised as follows: 8 7 6 2009 2008 5 US$ US$ Audit and audit related services: 1 Management 34% 4 Group audit of annual statements and 2 Multiple 24.9% review of interim statements 259,744 276,900 3 Hedge Fund 17.1% Prospectus and information circular 97,087 3 4 Retail 9% 259,744 373,987 1 5 Growth 8% Non-audit services: 6 Index 3.7% Tax compliance and advisory 43,744 110,124 7 Other 2.5% 1 Transaction services 1,274,820 537,900 2 8 Value 1.1% 1,318,564 648,024 1 The majority of the 2009 transaction services costs relate to an aborted acquisition see Operating Results section of the Financial Review, pages 30 to 32 Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of arbitrage, corporate, emerging markets, trading positions and custody.
Going Concern December 2009 A statement on the Directors position regarding the Company as a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 64.
8 7 6 Shareholder Relations 5 The Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent Director, is 1 responsible for ensuring effective communication of shareholders 1 Management 30% views to the Board as a whole and will update the rest of the Board 4 2 Multiple 29.5% accordingly.
Board Members are expected to use their best 3 Hedge Fund 12.8% 1 endeavours to attend meetings with a broad range of shareholders 4 Growth 10.25% or otherwise keep in touch with shareholder opinion and discuss 3 5 Retail 9% strategy and governance issues with them as time progresses.
In 6 Index 3.6% addition, the Company employs an investor relations specialist and an investor relations programme is in place for the Company to 7 Other 3.9% 2 meet major shareholders and analysts.
8 Value 0.9% As part of the Companys commitment to comply with the Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of arbitrage, corporate, emerging Combined Code, General Sir Michael Wilkes was elected as the markets, trading positions and custody.
Senior Independent Director with the chief responsibility of 1 Management decline is due to the increase in shares through the share placing in maintaining sufficient contact with major shareholders to help June 2009. develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
In this role General Sir Michael Wilkes is available to shareholders who At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for the benefit of have concerns that have not been, or cannot be resolved through shareholders.
The Chairman ensures, and will continue to ensure, discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief that the respective chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit, Financial Officer or where such contact is inappropriate.
Nomination, Reserves and CSR Committees attend the AGM to answer questions and that the other Directors also attend.
