54 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Corporate Governance report The names of the Directors and their biographical details are set out on Combined code pages 50 and 51.
The Chairman and the Executive Vice-Chairman were The Board is responsible for, and committed to, meeting the standards of appointed to the Board on the incorporation of the Company on good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate 8 September 2005.
The Chief Executive Officer was appointed to the Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 Board on 1 July 2007, and save for Ronald Goode, who joined the the Combined Code and the corporate governance principles Board on 12 December 2006, each of the Non-Executive Directors set out in the Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services Authority joined the Board on 14 October 2005.
The Non-Executive Directors have the Markets Law together the Corporate Governance Principles.
diverse business backgrounds, skills and experience and as such bring This report, the Audit Committee report set out on pages 57 to 59 and independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, the Remuneration Committee Report set out on pages 63 to 74 describe resources, key appointments, standards of conduct and other matters how the Board applied the Corporate Governance Principles during the presented to the Board.
In 2010, Ronald Goode offers himself for year under review.
re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Markets The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, Law require the Group to report on their application of the principles of and the Board has approved a statement of their responsibilities in good governance and the extent of their compliance with the Corporate writing.
These guidelines are reviewed annually by the Board.
This statement provides details on how the Group the appointment of the current Chief Executive Officer the Board has applied these principles.
undertook consultation with its major shareholders and external advisers During the year under review, the Company applied the principles regarding the continuation of Samih Darwazah in his role as Chairman.
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main The Board concluded that his former executive role should not prevent principles and the supporting principles, and the Corporate Governance him from remaining as Chairman, especially as he has an in-depth Principles.
At the year end the Company was in full compliance with understanding of the Group and the business and is able to provide a the Corporate Governance Principles.
valuable contribution in his capacity as Non-Executive Chairman.
The Board does not classify Ali Al-Husry as an independent Director The Board for the purposes of the Combined Code as a result of his involvement The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
with Darhold Limited, the Companys largest shareholder.
He was also a The Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction and Director of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited prior to the Companys listing.
monitoring the financial performance of the Group against its targets.
However, he continues to bring broad financial experience to the Board The Board also promotes good corporate governance within the Group, as well as a detailed knowledge of the MENA region which is significant and ensures that the Group meets its responsibilities to shareholders, to the Groups business.
employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
There is a The Senior Independent Director is Sir David Rowe-Ham who remains formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for consideration available to shareholders should they have concerns that they do not and decision, which is reviewed and, if necessary updated, annually.
wish to raise with the Chairman.
Sir David is also Chairman of the This includes approval of strategic plans, approval of financial statements Nomination Committee and is responsible for chairing the meetings and the annual Group budget, approval of material investment decisions, of Non-Executive Directors conducted without the presence of the acquisitions and divestments, and review of the effectiveness of the Chairman or executive management.
Groups systems of internal control.
The Board continues to discuss its composition and the skills and The Board delegates its powers to the CEO who is responsible for business experience of its members.
All of the directors believe in the delivering the companys strategic objectives and is assisted in this task necessity for challenge and debate in the boardroom and consider that by the executive management team.
the Board relationships encourage honest and open debate with the The senior management team who report directly to the CEO Executive Directors.
Furthermore the Non-Executive Directors maintain meet with him to discuss strategy and key objectives for their areas of strong relationships outside the timetabled board meetings with responsibility.
The CEO reports on operational progress in these areas to senior executive management and visit company subsidiaries regularly.
the Board and the key senior management team present to the Board, as They believe that the Boards decision making process is inclusive, appropriate, to highlight and debate developments in their business.
and is not dominated by any individual or group of individuals.
Composition of the Board Information flow The Board comprises eight members, half of whom are independent: a Board and committee papers are circulated to members in advance Non-Executive Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is of the meetings.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and not classified as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code Non-Executive Directors maintain regular contact with each other and two Executive Directors.
The Board considers the independence of and executive management outside the formal Board timetable.
the Non-Executive Directors on an annual basis during the corporate The Chairman also holds informal meetings with Non-Executive governance review that takes place in December each year.
Directors without the executive management present to discuss issues affecting the Group.
Senior executives attend Board meetings and make presentations on the results and strategies of their business units.
Governance and financial results 55 This year the Board received presentations from all members of the Board meetings senior management team on their areas of responsibility.
Strategic During the year under review the Board held eight scheduled meetings presentations were received on human resources, sales, compliance, and one unscheduled meeting.
The Company Secretary attended all supply chain management, finance and operations.
Each of the senior Board Meetings and Committee Meetings.
A table showing attendance executives has been scheduled to update the Board on their initiatives at these meetings is set out below.
To the extent directors are unable to during the course of 2010. attend additional meetings called on short notice, or are prevented from All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company doing so by prior commitments, they receive and read the papers for Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that good board procedures are consideration at that meeting, relay their comments in advance and, followed and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all matters where necessary, follow up with the Chairman on the decisions taken.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
To the extent necessary, the Board performance evaluation Directors are able to obtain independent professional advice at the The Non-Executive Directors, other than Ronald Goode, were re-elected Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
on 14 May 2009, having first been elected by shareholders on 25 May 2006.
Said Darwazah was appointed on 1 July 2007 and elected by Board Training Continuing Professional Development shareholders on 15 May 2008.
Ronald Goode who was appointed on The Directors maintain a close dialogue between Board meetings, 12 December 2006 will be seeking re-election by shareholders at the ensuring that, amongst other things, the Non-Executive Directors are AGM on 13 May 2010.
He was first elected by shareholders at the AGM kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
All Directors are subject to re-election at intervals of The Board is also encouraged to visit the major business units and no more than three years.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an to meet the senior management teams in order to facilitate a better initial term of three years, which can be renewed and extended for not understanding of the key issues facing the business.
In the year under more than two further three-year terms.
review, the July Board meeting was held at the Groups facilities in As required by the Combined Code, a formal evaluation of the Portugal where the Board had access to the senior management team performance of the Board, the Chairman, the Committee Chairmen and reviewed the construction and progress of the new lyophilisation and the individual Non-Executive Directors was undertaken during the plant.
The Companys brokers and financial advisers presented industry period under review.
and market updates to the board four times in 2009.
These sessions are During 2009 the Board reviewed its approach to Board evaluations in addition to the written briefings on areas of regulatory and legislative and approved a three year evaluation process, which includes seeking change presented at each Board meeting in the form of the Corporate external consultation every third year.
In 2009 the Board evaluation Governance Paper.
This year briefings took place on the Companies was managed internally by the Senior Independent Director.
In 2010 Act 2006, the Walker Review, the FRC Review of Combined Code, the Board will continue to review its performance internally with Listing Rules Review and the Bribery Bill.
The Non-Executive Directors the assistance of a consultant and in 2011 it will seek an externally have attended a number of training sessions specifically aimed at moderated evaluation.
Non-Executive Directors addressing the Walker Review and other This year the Board refreshed its approach to the appraisal process corporate governance topics.
using a new format of questions specifically targeted on the quality of decision making and information made available to the Board.
As in previous years the evaluation process was led by the Senior Independent Director, who met with each of the Directors and the Committee Chairmen to undertake an appraisal of the performance of the Board, its Committees and each of the individual Directors.
The results of the evaluation process and feedback were reviewed Board meetings with the Chairman and formed part of his appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board and its members.
Overall the review concluded Meeting record Board Audit Remuneration Nomination that the Board functions well, with good communication, and with Meetings held 9 8 6 2 issues raised in good time to allow for consultation, debate and Samih Darwazah 9 effective decision-making.
Recommendations were made regarding the enhancement of some of the information provided to the Board Said Darwazah 9 and amendments to the Board timetable and these are being Mazen Darwazah 9 2 implemented in 2010.
Ali Al-Husry 8 In addition to the matters set out above in respect of all Directors, the Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Directors Michael Ashton 9 8 6 2 to undertake a formal appraisal of the performance of the Chairman.
Breffni Byrne 9 8 6 This review addressed the effectiveness of his leadership, the setting Sir David Rowe-Ham 9 8 6 2 of the Board agenda, communication with shareholders, internal communication and Board efficiency.
The Non-Executives concluded Ronald Goode 9 8 6 that the Chairman gave clear leadership and direction to the Board, Ali Al-Husry missed one Board meeting due to other commitments.
and where necessary implemented changes and managed the agenda to reflect the changing business environment in 2009.
56 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Corporate Governance report continued The Committee met six times during the year with full attendance.
Directors service arrangements and terms of appointment The Committee is responsible for setting and reviewing executive Details of the Executive Directors service arrangements and remuneration and that of the Company Secretary and is able to take Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are contained in advice from external consultants when required.
A full report on the role the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 64 to 70. of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 63.
During the year under review, there has Directors remuneration been close co-operation between the new corporate Head of HR and the Details of the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to ensure that executive are contained in the Remuneration Committee Report set out on pages remuneration policies and structure are appropriate and adequately 64 to 70. reflect the remuneration structures and policies in place for the Groups employees as a whole.
Board committees In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance and in Audit Committee compliance with the Combined Code and the Markets Law, the Board The Audit Committee consists of four independent Non-Executive maintains three committees - the Audit Committee, Nomination Directors Breffni Byrne Committee Chairman, Michael Ashton, Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Sir David Rowe-Ham and Ronald Goode.
The Audit Committee therefore Each of the three Combined Code committees has terms of complies with the membership requirements laid out in the Corporate reference, which were reviewed during the year.
Copies are published Governance Principles.
on the Companys website at www.
The Chairman give The Committee met eight times during the year with full attendance.
regular reports of the Committees business to the Board.
A full report of the role of the Audit Committee and details of how it carried out its duties is set out in the Audit Committee report on Other Committees pages 57 to 59.
The Group also has an Ethics Committee and a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which draw their members from the Board Ethics Committee and senior management of the Group.
The Ethics Committee is chaired by Ronald Goode and draws its members from the Board and senior management across the Group.
Nomination Committee The Ethics Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to respond to issues as The Nomination Committee consists of two independent Non-Executive they arise across all areas of the Groups business.
Thus, the Committee Directors Sir David Rowe-Ham Committee Chairman and Michael is responsible for the oversight of all of statements and policies on ethics, Ashton and the Executive Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
conduct, values and principles within the Group.
As required by the Corporate Governance Principles, the majority of the members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive CR Steering Committee Directors and an independent Non-Executive Director holds the The CR Steering Committee is chaired by the Executive Vice-Chairman, Chairmanship of the Committee.
Mazen Darwazah and draws its members from the Board Ronald Goode The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning and senior management.
The CR Steering Committee is responsible for and for ensuring that all appointments to the Board are made on reviewing the strategy and direction of the Groups social, community objective criteria.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the and environmental programme.
The Committee is also responsible Committee is required to take into account the skills, knowledge for the oversight of the CR Working Committee to undertake the and experience of the Board in making its decisions and is able to use implementation of the Groups CR programme.
external search firms or open advertising to compile shortlists of candidates for the Board.
It is also charged with reviewing the Internal Control appropriateness of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal The Nomination Committee met twice during the year, with full control and risk management and has complied with the requirements attendance.
It met to discuss and review succession planning and to of the Corporate Governance Principles in establishing a continuous discuss the performance evaluation and appraisal system for the Board.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of these Remuneration Committee systems on an ongoing basis and, at least annually, conducting a formal The Remuneration Committee consists of the Companys four review of the Groups policies on internal control.
The system of internal independent Non-Executive Directors Michael Ashton Committee control provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material Chairman, Breffni Byrne, Sir David Rowe-Ham and Ronald Goode.
The Remuneration Committee therefore complies with the membership requirements laid out in the Corporate Governance Principles.
Governance and financial results 57 The key elements are as follows: Terms of reference The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters indicated a reporting structure with clear procedures, authorisation limits, by the Corporate Governance Principles and clearly set out its authority segregation of duties and delegated authorities: and duties.
These can be found on the Companys website at www.
com and are summarised as follows: annual budgets and updated forecasting for the Group that identify risks and opportunities which are reviewed and approved by the Board: monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any other formal a comprehensive system of internal financial reporting which includes announcement relating to the Groups financial performance and review regular comparison of financial results and key performance indicators summary financial statements and interim management statements: against budget and forecast, informed by management commentary: review and challenge accounting policies and accounting for significant a clearly defined process for controlling capital expenditure and other or unusual transactions: financial commitments, including appropriate authorisation levels, which review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, estimates are monitored and approved by the Board as appropriate: and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in financial reports: written policies and procedures for all material functional areas with review and challenge compliance with stock exchange, UK Listing specific responsibility allocated to individual managers.
Authority and legal requirements including the requirements of the Combined Code and Markets Law: During the year under review, Ernst & Young continued its management and execution of the Groups internal audit function on a global basis review arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, under a three year contract which commenced in 2009.
This involves about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: a risk-driven approach to internal audit which is overseen by the Audit monitor and review the internal financial controls and the Groups Committee.
The internal audit process focuses on reviewing areas of overall risk identification and management systems: business risk, internal controls, financial reporting and other systems in consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit the Companys main subsidiaries and at the corporate level, with regular function, its annual plan, its resources and access to information and reports of its findings made to the Audit Committee.
Ernst & Young have its freedom from management or other restrictions: direct access to the Audit Committee and the Board Chairman.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the requirements of review and monitor managements responsiveness to the findings and the Corporate Governance Principles, a review of the effectiveness of recommendations of the internal auditors: the Groups systems of internal controls was conducted during the year consider and make recommendations for appointment, re-appointment under review.
and removal of the Companys external auditor, and oversee the relationship with the external auditor: Whistleblowing The Group Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director, of the external auditor accounting for relevant UK and professional and Ronald Goode as a US-based member of the Audit Committee regulatory requirements and approve their remuneration and terms to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, of engagement: internal control and other instances of allegedly improper behaviour develop and implement a policy on the supply by the external auditor by Group employees.
of non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance and potential conflicts of interest.
Insurance The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers The Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed by the Audit insurance in respect of action taken against Directors.
Committee during the period under review and were subsequently reviewed and approved by the Board.
Audit Committee report The Combined Code requires that this Annual Report separately describes the work of the Audit Committee and how it discharges its responsibilities.
58 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Corporate Governance report continued The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, attended four Audit Composition Committee meetings for the purposes of presenting their 2008 audit Hikmas Audit Committee comprises four members Breffni Byrne, results and findings, the results of the 2009 interim review and their audit Michael Ashton, Sir David Rowe-Ham, and Ronald Goode all of plan for 2010.
The internal auditors, Ernst & Young presented the results whom are independent Non-Executive Directors, and whose biographical of their audit programme for 2009 to the Audit Committee together details are set out on page 51.
The Committee is chaired by Breffni Byrne, with their proposed audit plan for 2010.
The Audit Committee continues who is a chartered accountant and who is considered by the to review the response by management, proposed action plans and Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
No members the overall effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In accordance of the Committee have links with the Companys external auditors.
with the Combined Code, the Audit Committee also met with the The Company therefore considers that it complies with the Corporate Groups external auditor and internal auditor without executive Governance Principles regarding the composition of the Audit management present.
The Committee Chairman receives additional remuneration In addition, during 2009, the Audit Committee Chairman met to compensate him for his additional responsibilities.
with external auditors in the USA and Portugal.
The Audit Committee Chairman also met with Ernst & Young in Jordan to discuss the results Responsibilities of the 2009 internal audit programme.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities Attendance of members at Audit Committee meetings is shown with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audit and internal on page 55 of the Corporate Governance report.
This includes reviewing the Companys annual report and financial statements, interim report, Interim Management Statements External auditors and trading updates, reviewing and monitoring the extent of non-audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation work undertaken by external auditors, and monitoring the effectiveness and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
Oversight and and output of the Companys internal audit activities, internal controls responsibility for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible external auditors lies with the Audit Committee, and day-to-day for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, responsibility with the Chief Financial Officer.
The Audit Committee is re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as well as the also the point of primary contact for contact with the Board.
The Group effectiveness of the audit process.
The ultimate responsibility for has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services reviewing and approving the annual report and financial statements by the external auditors.
The policy also sets out the categories of and the half-yearly reports remains with the Board.
The Board has also non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be delegated responsibility for the operation of the Companys policies on allowed to provide to the Group.
monitoring directors conflicts of interest to the Audit Committee and In line with audit independence requirements the external auditor thus has been included in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
does not provide services such as information system design and valuation or advocacy work which could be considered to be inconsistent Meetings with the audit role.
In addition, audit-related and non-related services The Audit Committee met eight times during the year under review, with provided by the external auditor in excess of certain monetary limits the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary in attendance.
require prior approval by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has The Audit Committee reviewed the 2008 annual report & financial reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor and statements, the 2009 interim report, the two Interim Management is satisfied that the nature of these services has not compromised Statements released by the Company and each of the regulatory the auditors independence.
statements made by the Company in respect of trading and results issued Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services during the year.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the audit are outlined in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
plans for 2010 for both internal and external auditors and the related Audit-related services are services carried out by the external auditor by scope of internal audit work to be undertaken.
The Committee reviewed virtue of its role as auditor and principally include assurance-related work the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management and accounting advice.
processes and the disclosures made in the annual report & financial A policy has also been adopted whereby prior approval by the Audit statements on these matters and reported on these to the Board.
Committee is required before the recruitment of a senior member of the The Committee also reviewed its own terms of reference and general audit team or the recruitment of an employee of the external auditors to effectiveness, both specifically and in the context of the overall annual a senior finance position within the Group.
review of corporate governance matters conducted by the Company.
It is also the Committees policy to consider every year whether there should be an audit tender process and whether using auditors from one audit network continues to enhance the quality of the audit.
Governance and financial results 59 To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external The Senior Independent Director and Chairman met with institutional auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: investor protection committees who requested meetings during the year to discuss Corporate Governance matters, the business as a whole and the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the its management.
senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report and who, in The principal ongoing communication with shareholders is through accordance with professional rules, has not held office for more than the publication of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements, five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: Interim Results and Interim Management Statements, together with the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at the Annual the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: General Meeting.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
Copies of auditors: and presentations made at the AGM are available on the website after the the past service of the auditors who were first appointed in for the event together with the results of the voting.
The full Board is present year ending 2004. at the AGM.
The Company maintains a website www.
com containing financial and other information which is updated regularly.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the Additionally, the Company presents a balanced view of the Groups auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual performance and prospects through the release of appropriate press obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
The Board is kept updated on the views of shareholders and the To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee market in general through the feedback from the investor meeting reviewed: programme and results presentations.
Analysts reports are circulated to the Board members together with monthly Investor Relations reports.
the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence The Investor Relations Director also presents to the Board to provide and objectivity: feedback from institutional investors.
the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from the plan: Procedures to deal with conflict of interests The Company has implemented procedures to deal with directors the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest.
Responsibility has of the key accounting and audit judgements: and been delegated to the Audit Committee to operate, monitor and review the content of the external auditors reporting on internal control.
the procedures, which have operated effectively during the year.
Overview Consequently, the Audit Committee concludes that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and ensured the independence and reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also recommends to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions on the work of the Committee.
Dialogue with shareholders Ongoing communication with shareholders is a high priority.
The Company undertakes a continuous programme of meetings with institutional shareholders in the UK, Europe, the United States and the MENA region.
This programme includes but is not limited to one-on-one meetings, investor days, conference calls and presentations at investor conferences.
In addition the Company makes formal presentations at the time of its annual and interim results which are webcast and disseminated on the Companys website.
The Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice-Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and other senior corporate executives have all participated in the investor programme during the period under review.
