Corporate governance Compliance with the Code The Senior Independent Director acts as an alternative channel of The Company has complied throughout the year with the communication for shareholders and oversees senior executives provisions set out in Section 1 of the June 2006 FRC Combined remuneration and remuneration policy as chairman of the Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Chief Executive Officer has overall The following paragraphs, together with the Directors responsibility for running the Companys business.
remuneration report on pages 24 to 34, provide a description The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for of how the Combined Code has been applied.
These include the following major matters: The Board approval of any material investments, capital expenditure, There were a number of changes to the composition of the Board acquisitions and disposals by Group companies: during the year under review.
Carl Symon retired as Chairman of substantial alteration in the general nature of the business: the Board on 5 September 2008 and Lesley Knox was appointed interim Chairman until the appointment of Robert Swannell on approval of the operating plan and the three year strategic 2 February 2009 as Non-Executive Chairman.
Carl Symon was plan: not involved in the selection or appointment of his successor setting of financial and dividend policies: Chairman.
During her tenure as interim Chairman of the Board, Mrs Knox was appointed chairman of the Nomination Committee consideration of interim and final dividends: and ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration change of auditors, accounting policies and practices: Committees, but resumed membership of these two Committees on 2 February 2009.
Andy Duncan was appointed to the Board changes to the share capital of the Company: as a Non-Executive Director on 13 March 2009 and Roy Brown appointment and removal of all Directors and senior retired from the Board at the close of business on 22 April 2009. management: and On that date Lesley Knox was appointed Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
corporate governance and corporate social responsibility of As at the end of the year under review the Board comprised the Company.
four independent Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman, and In accordance with the Combined Code at least half the Board, three Executive Directors being the Chief Executive Officer, excluding the Chairman, comprise independent Non-Executive the Group Finance Director and the Managing Director of Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial Waterstones Booksellers.
The biographical details of the term of three years and the Articles of Association include a members of the Board are set out on pages 18 and 19. requirement that all Directors submit themselves for re-election The Board considers that each of Andy Duncan, Lesley Knox, by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following Christopher Rogers and Philip Rowley are independent.
appointment and thereafter every third calendar year.
Details of In addition, the Board determined that Robert Swannell was those Directors who will stand for re-election at the forthcoming independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on Annual General Meeting can be found on page 41.
The Company used external search consultants Directors has been subject to evaluation, as indicated below, in respect of the appointment of both Mr Swannell and and continue to demonstrate commitment to the role and be an Mr Duncan.
effective member of the Board.
Accordingly, the Board believes Whilst the Board is collectively responsible for the success of the these Directors should be re-elected.
Company, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that: On appointment to the Board, Directors are given a formal induction and thereafter receive further guidance and training as the Company has appropriate objectives and an effective and when required.
There are also procedures for the Directors strategy: to take independent professional advice at the cost of the there is a Chief Executive Officer with a team to implement Company, if appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice the strategy: and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules there are procedures in place to inform the Board of and regulations are followed.
The appointment and removal of the performance against objectives: and Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
the Company is operating in accordance with the principles of Corporate Governance.
The Chairmans other significant commitments are noted on page 19.
The Board considers that these are not a constraint on the Chairmans agreed time commitment to the Company.
HMV Group plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2009 Performance evaluation Christopher Rogers, chairman of the Committee, is a qualified The Board has an established process for evaluating the individual Chartered Accountant, and Finance Director of Whitbread plc Directors, the Board as a whole and each of the Board and, thus, has recent relevant financial experience.
This evaluation process involves an objective and believes that the other Committee members have relevant comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge experience to serve on this Committee.
and experience of the Board and any development plans for the The Committee is required to meet a minimum of three Board.
The evaluation process for the Board as a whole and times a year and details of members attendance at the for each of its Committees was conducted by means of detailed Committee can be found on page 22.
Both the Head of Internal questionnaires completed by all Directors.
The results of the Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the chairman evaluation of each of the Board Committees were reviewed and of the Committee outside the formal Committee meetings.
discussed by each of the relevant Committees and then reported The main duties of the Committee are as follows: to the Board as a whole, together with the results of the appraisal of the Board itself.
A number of recommendations were agreed monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial for the Board and its Committees and these will be implemented statements: during 2010. the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness and The Chairman appraises the performance of the individual independence of the external auditors: Board members through discussion with all Directors individually.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for the evaluation approval of the scope of the Companys risk management of the Chairman and the views of the other Directors are programme and review of the risk management process: canvassed.
The results of the performance evaluation for each reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal audit of the Directors and the Chairman were reported to the Board.
function: and The development plans for the Board and the performance evaluation process will continue to be reviewed annually.
to oversee the establishment and maintenance of good The Non-Executive Directors met on several occasions business practices throughout the Group.
without the Executive Directors being present during the year During the period under review, the Committee met on three under review.
They also met on several occasions without the occasions in order to review a wide range of financial matters, presence of the Chairman.
including annual and half year profit figures, financial statements, trading statements and other regulatory information disclosed Board Committees to the public, to conduct a review of the internal audit function There are three principal Board Committees, each of which and to receive regular reports from internal audit, before making regularly reports to the Board and each of which has clear terms appropriate recommendations to the Board.
of reference which can be found on the Companys website www.
Each Committee has and will keep under Nomination Committee review its terms of reference and its effectiveness and make During the year under review Robert Swannell was appointed as recommendations to the Board of any appropriate changes.
chairman of the Nomination Committee on his appointment as The chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available Chairman of the Board on 2 February 2009.
Andy Duncan was to answer shareholders questions at the forthcoming Annual appointed a member of the Committee on his appointment to the General Meeting.
Carl Symon and Roy Brown ceased to be members of the Committee on their retirement from the Audit Committee Board at the close of business on 5 September 2008 and 22 April During the year under review Andy Duncan was appointed a 2009 respectively.
As at the end of the year under review the member of the Audit Committee with effect from 13 March 2009 Nomination Committee comprised Robert Swannell chairman, and Roy Brown ceased to be a committee member on his Lesley Knox, Christopher Rogers, Philip Rowley and Andy Duncan retirement from the Board at the close of business on 22 April who were appointed to the Committee on 2 February 2009, 23 2009.
As at the end of the financial year the Audit Committee April 2002, 1 October 2006, 1 October 2007 and 13 March 2009 comprised Christopher Rogers chairman, Andy Duncan, respectively.
Lesley Knox and Philip Rowley.
Mr Rogers was appointed to the The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
Committee on 1 October 2006, and Mrs Knox, Mr Rowley and The Committee meets as and when required and during the Mr Duncan were appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002, period under review the Committee met on four occasions.
The Chairman, These meetings were to evaluate the Committees own Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, the Head of performance and to deal with succession planning issues.
Internal Audit, and the external auditors were invited and attended meetings of the Audit Committee.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 21 Corporate governance continued Members attendance at meetings of the Committee during Knox was appointed chairman of the Committee in his place.
the period under review is set out below.
The Committee is Andy Duncan was appointed a member of the Committee responsible for identifying and nominating executive and nonon 13 March 2009.
As at the end of the year under review, the executive candidates for approval by the Board to fill vacancies Committee comprised Lesley Knox chairman, Christopher as and when they arise and to put in place succession plans for Rogers, Philip Rowley and Andy Duncan who were appointed Directors and other senior managers.
The Committee has access to the Committee on 23 April 2002, 1 October 2006, 1 October to such information and advice both from within the Group and 2007 and 13 March 2009 respectively.
No person other than the externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems appropriate.
members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings External consultants are used to assist in identifying suitable but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
No Director external candidates based on a written specification for each is present when the Committee considers matters relating to him appointment.
Committee members prepare a shortlist of or her or acts in matters relating to them.
candidates for consideration by the Board.
The final candidate is The Remuneration Committee is required to meet at least then subject to formal nomination by the Committee and approval twice a year and is responsible for approving the terms of service by the Board.
In addition, the Committee will review the Board and setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors and structure, size and composition and from time to time make any other senior managers of the Group in accordance with a relevant recommendations to the Board.
remuneration policy which is approved by the Board.
It is also responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee terms upon which the service of Executive Directors is terminated, During the year under review Roy Brown ceased to be the having regard to a severance policy adopted by the Board.
chairman of the Remuneration Committee on his retirement from It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual report on the Board at the close of business on 22 April 2009 and Lesley Directors remuneration set out on pages 24 to 34.
A record of members attendance at the Board and Committee meetings is as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Roy Brown 11 12 3 3 3 4 4 4 Neil Bright 12 12 3 1 Andy Duncan 1 1 1 1 1 1 Simon Fox 12 12 3 3 2 Gerry Johnson 12 12 1 Lesley Knox 12 12 2 2 3 3 4 4 Christopher Rogers 12 12 3 3 3 3 4 4 Philip Rowley 12 12 3 3 3 3 4 4 Carl Symon 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 Robert Swannell 4 4 1 1 3 3 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
Not a Committee member but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
In addition to the number of meetings noted Mrs Knox attended one meeting whilst interim Chairman of the Board.
The one instance of non-attendance was where the Director had a conflict with another meeting.
Internal control compliance controls as well as risk management, and that The Board attaches considerable importance to, and these accord with the guidance on internal controls set out in acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups system of internal the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the control and risk management and carries out regular reviews of Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in their effectiveness.
A system of internal control is designed to October 2005, and that such controls have been in place during manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business the year under review and up to the date of approval of the objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Annual Report and Accounts and that there are satisfactory assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management significant risks faced by the Group.
The systems of internal process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for control and the processes used by the Board to review the consideration.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the Groups effectiveness of those systems include: system of internal controls including financial, operational and HMV Group plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2009 Group Relations with shareholders an internal audit function, which carries out a programme of The Board places high importance on maintaining good audits covering the management of significant corporate risks relationships with both institutional and private investors and and reports directly to the Audit Committee and the Board on ensures, through its investor relations programme, that the effectiveness of key internal controls: shareholders are kept informed of significant Group developments.
Shareholders can access further information detailed risk registers, which describe the significant risks and on the Group via the Companys website at www.
control strategies in each area of the business and which are The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director meet reviewed annually: regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Major a comprehensive system of financial reporting, which institutional shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, rolling forecasts, and half year and annual reporting to enable the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet with private the Group to meet its public financial reporting requirements: investors at the Companys general meetings, where shareholders are invited to ask questions and express views on the Companys regular performance monitoring, with remedial action taken business.
The views of shareholders are reported to the Board as where necessary: and when appropriate.
regular Board meetings, with a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision: Accountability and audit The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and established procedures for planning, approving and balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and monitoring major projects: prospects.
This assessment is provided in the statement of the a policies and procedures manual, which sets out, inter alia, Chairman on pages 2 and 3 and the Business and Financial authority limits and guidelines for capital expenditure, which Review on pages 4 to 17. include annual budgets and appraisal and review procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and All operating businesses have to confirm compliance with the objectivity of the external auditors with a view to confirming that, in manual on an annual basis: its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and value for money on the other has been kept appropriately in balance.
certain centralised functions, that are staffed by appropriately The external auditors have in place processes to ensure their qualified individuals who draw on external professional advice.
independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that These functions include finance, tax, treasury, management where they provide non-audit services their independence is not information systems, legal, company secretarial and internal threatened.
In this context, the Audit Committee considers that it audit: and is appropriate for the external auditors to provide to the Group, clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate tax advice and other accounting services, including those in delegated authorities.
connection with supporting and reporting on financial representations in public documentation.
Audit Committee During the year under review the auditors were used for tax approving the scope of the annual Group risk management advice work and the Company foresees using the auditors for this programme: advice in the future.
The provision of other services is considered on an ad hoc case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees paid to the reviewing the results of the risk identification process: auditors in the year, for audit and non-audit services, are given on page 59. providing input on risks and internal controls into the annual Board strategy discussions: reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process By order of the Board and discussing significant risk issues with the Board: Elaine Marriner considering reports from internal and external audit on the Company Secretary system of internal control and any material control weaknesses: 29 June 2009 reviewing the internal audit and external audit work plans: and at the year end, before producing the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in the Annual report and accounts, the Board, through the Audit Committee, considers reports generated from the internal and external auditors on any major problems that have occurred during the year.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 23
