Go Governance vernance A Accou ccoun nt ts s Corporate governance report INTRODUCTION & STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE During the year under review, there were four scheduled meetings of the Board and five ad hoc meetings which were The Board of Hochschild Mining plc believes that its convened at short notice to deal with operational issues and participation in an established investment market carries matters relating to the Companys capital raising which was significant responsibility to manage the Company completed in October 2009. transparently and in a manner appropriate to a successful Attendance by Directors at the scheduled Board meetings business.
Accordingly, the Board fully supports good held during the year is summarised in the table below.
corporate governance and intends to comply, wherever possible, in the interests of shareholders and other Possible Actual Director attendance attendance stakeholders, with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 Edition the Code a copy of which is Eduardo Hochschild 4 4 available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council.
Roberto Daino 4 4 This report sets out how the Company has applied the Miguel Arambur 4 4 Main Principles set out in the Code in respect of the year Ignacio Rosado 4 4 under review.
The information required to be included in the Corporate Governance Report in relation to share structure Sir Malcolm Field 4 4 pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is Nigel Moore 4 4 provided in the section of the Directors Report entitled Additional Statutory Information.
Jorge Born Jr. 4 3 The Board confirms that in respect of the year ended Dionisio Romero 4 3 31 December 2009, the Group complied fully with the Fred Vinton 2 2 provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code.
The principal matters considered by the Board during the THE BOARD year included: the Groups strategic plan and annual budget.
The Board is responsible for approving the Companys strategy and monitoring its implementation, for managing corporate development opportunities.
the operations of the Company and for providing leadership the raising of additional capital through a placing and issue and support to the senior management team in achieving of convertible bonds.
sustainable added value for shareholders.
It is also responsible for enabling the efficient operation of the various a review of directors conflicts of interest.
businesses by providing adequate financial and human various matters relating to health & safety, environmental resources and an appropriate system of financial control management and community relations.
to ensure these resources are fully monitored and utilised.
Directors receive a full pack of papers for consideration The Board consists of four Executive Directors: Eduardo in advance of each Board meeting and, in the event that Hochschild Chairman, Roberto Daino Deputy Chairman, a Director is unable to attend, comments are relayed to the Miguel Arambur Chief Executive Officer and Ignacio Chairman who seeks to ensure that all views are represented Rosado Chief Financial Officer, and five Non-Executive on any given matter.
Directors: Sir Malcolm Field Senior Independent NonExecutive Director, Jorge Born Jr. Nigel Moore, Dionisio In addition, Directors are kept abreast of latest developments Romero and Fred Vinton.
through monthly reports on the Companys operations and financial situation.
Eduardo Hochschild, who controls the major shareholder of the Company, Pelham Investment Corporation the Major Shareholder, has considerable knowledge and experience CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE in the Latin American gold and silver mining industry.
As a result, it is the Boards belief that Eduardo Hochschilds In respect of the year under review, the Company was led membership of the Board and participation in the by Eduardo Hochschild as Executive Chairman, and Miguel management of the Company is vital to its continued Arambur, the Chief Executive Officer.
A document setting success and growth.
Prior to the Companys Listing, the out the division of responsibilities between these postholders Major Shareholder, its Controlling Shareholders at the is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
time including Eduardo Hochschild, and the Company, Eduardo Hochschild, as Chairman, is responsible for the entered into an agreement regulating their ongoing running and leadership of the Board and, in conjunction with relationship.
Further details concerning this agreement the Chief Executive Officer, for the formulation of the vision are set out on page 50. and long-term corporate strategy of the Group.
The approval of the Groups strategy is a matter for approval by the Board.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the Board which includes the approval of annual and half-yearly The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading an results, the Groups strategy, the annual budget and major executive team in the day-to-day management of the items of capital expenditure.
49 Governance Accounts Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Corporate governance report continued SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR independently of the Controlling Shareholders and any of their respective associates, and that transactions and Sir Malcolm Field has been appointed as the Senior relationships with the Controlling Shareholders and any Independent Director and, as such, is available to meet with of their respective associates are at arms length and on major shareholders if their concerns have not been resolved normal commercial terms.
by the Chairman or the other Executive Directors.
The Company and the Major Shareholder agree in the Relationship Agreement that they will comply with the BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE applicable obligations under the Listing Rules and to exercise their powers so far as they are able to ensure the Company is During 2009 the composition of the Board complied with managed in accordance with the Code.
Under the agreement, the provision of the Code which requires that a majority the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint up to two of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as the Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board Major Shareholder holds an interest of 30% or more in the to be independent.
Company and the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director for so long as it has an interest of 15% or more in the The Board believes that its membership during the year was, Company, and in each case to remove any such Director s and continues to be, well balanced and capable of managing previously appointed.
The Relationship Agreement continues the Company in an effective and successful manner.
Whilst for so long as the Companys shares are traded on the the Chairman is not considered to be independent, the Board London Stock Exchange or until such times as the is satisfied that decisions can be made without any one Controlling Shareholders including Eduardo Hochschild Director exercising undue influence.
This sentiment has been cease to own or control in aggregate a minimum of 15% further reiterated by the views expressed as part of the board or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of evaluation process.
The Board considers that Eduardo the Company.
Hochschilds long-term relationship with the Company, and his importance to it, make his presence on the Board of vital importance and is in the best interests of the Company and APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD AND RE-ELECTION its shareholders generally.
OF DIRECTORS Moreover, the undertakings given in the Relationship Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the Agreement by the Major Shareholder and Eduardo Nominations Committee which met during the year under Hochschild, ensure that the Company is managed in review to consider the appointment of Fred Vinton as a Nonaccordance with the Code.
Accordingly, the Board believes Executive Director of the Company.
that during the year under review, the Company was structured so as to ensure that no individual had unfettered In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of powers of decision making.
Association, Fred Vinton will be subject to election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, Eduardo The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors Hochschild and Dionisio Romero will retire by rotation are independent of the Company as defined by the Code.
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election by The Board is of the opinion that all five independent Directors shareholders also at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical enhance the Boards capacity to oversee and grow the details of these Directors are given on page 42.
This notwithstanding, the membership of each main Board committee is reviewed by BOARD DEVELOPMENT the Board on an on-going basis as a matter of good practice.
In addition to their legal responsibilities as Directors, the The Directors receive regular briefings on their Non-Executive Directors are expected to contribute to issues responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company, of strategy and management performance through the particularly in light of the Companies Act 2006 and on application of their independent judgement and to scrutinise other relevant UK legal developments.
In addition, the managements performance against objectives.
To this end, Chairman has made arrangements to ensure that the the Non-Executive Directors have held informal private Directors have free access to the Companys officers and discussions with the Chairman.
advisers and to visit the Companys operations.
An induction programme for new Board appointees incorporates Consistent with the Code, consideration of the remuneration meetings with the Companys principal advisers and visits of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved for to the Groups operations.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that the Directors update their skills and are provided with the RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT necessary resources to continue to do so.
Prior to the Companys IPO, the Major Shareholder and The Company has procedures by which members of the its controlling shareholders at the time including Eduardo Board may take independent professional advice at the Hochschild collectively the Controlling Shareholders Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
and the Company entered into an agreement regulating their ongoing relationship.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their business 50 Gov Governance ernance A Accou ccoun nt ts s BOARD EVALUATION During the year under review, there were four meetings of the Audit Committee which were attended by all members The Board is committed to the process of self evaluation with the exception that Jorge Born Jr. was unable to attend as a means of ensuring continued improvement in fulfilling one meeting.
With this in mind, the approach to board The following matters featured among those considered evaluation was refreshed for 2009 by replacing by the Committee during the year: questionnaires with one-on-one interviews undertaken by Financial reporting The Audit Committee reviewed the the Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
2008 Annual Report and Accounts and the 2009 Half-yearly The questioning sought to elicit the Directors views on, Report before recommending them to the Board for amongst other things, the workings of the Board, approval.
As part of its review of each, the Audit Committee Committees as well as board composition and process.
reviewed accounting policies, estimates and judgements The findings were considered by the Chairman and the applied in preparing the relevant report and accounts Senior Independent Director and a number of and the transparency and clarity of disclosures contained recommendations arising from the process were considered within them.
and approved by the Board.
The recommendations principally relate to the continuation of efforts in respect of contingency Risk management Risk matrices detailing the significant planning at Board level and Board process.
risks at each of the Groups operations were considered by the Audit Committee together with the accompanying A section of the interviews carried out was dedicated to evaluation and action plans to manage the identified high evaluating the Chairmans performance, the outcome of risk areas.
which was collated by the Senior Independent Director and collectively considered by the Non-Executive Directors before Internal audit The Audit Committee has continued to the recommendations were relayed to the Chairman.
oversee the Groups adoption of a risk-based approach to internal audit.
THE BOARDS COMMITTEES Internal control The Audit Committee has continued to review, amongst other things, the adequacy of the Groups The Board has delegated authority to the following standing internal control environment.
The Group continues to committees which report regularly to the Board: operate arrangements under which staff may raise, in confidence, concerns about possible improprieties in the Audit Committee.
matters of financial reporting or other matters and which the Remuneration Committee.
enables proportionate and independent investigation of any the Nominations Committee.
such improprieties with suitable follow-up action.
the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
External audit The Audit Committee considered the reappointment of the Companys external auditors before The terms of reference for all the Board committees making a recommendation to the Board that the same be are available for inspection on the Companys website put to shareholders.
The Audit Committee oversees the at www.
com relationship with the external auditors.
As part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee has reviewed the AUDIT COMMITTEE findings of the external auditors, reviewed management representation letters, approved audit plans, reviewed The role of the Audit Committee is to: and agreed audit fees and evaluated its performance.
monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements: The Audit Committee continues to oversee the implementation of specific policies designed to safeguard the monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal independence and objectivity of the auditors including a policy controls and risk management systems: on the provision of non-audit services.
This document oversee the relationship with the Companys external specifies those non-audit services that the external auditor auditors: and may provide in the absence of any threat to its independence which include support in relation to M&A, and Joint Ventures review the effectiveness of the external audit process.
and tax advisory services which are not incompatible with the The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore who has auditors statutory responsibilities.
The policy also sets out extensive and substantial financial experience gained those services which the auditors are prohibited from whilst holding a number of senior appointments with rendering and where it is not in the best interests of the Ernst & Young and acts as Audit Committee Chairman Group for the work to be undertaken by the external auditor.
for four other listed companies.
Further details are given Such services include management of, or significant in the biography on page 42.
During the year under review, involvement in internal audit services, advice to the the other members of the Audit Committee were Sir Malcolm Remuneration Committee and valuation services.
Field and Jorge Born Jr. both of whom are considered to be Details on the fees paid to the external auditors during the independent Directors.
year in respect of audit and non-audit work are provided in The lead partner of the external auditors, the Executive note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors and the Head of Internal Audit attend each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
51 Governance Accounts Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Corporate governance report continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and The role of the CSR Committee is to oversee and to make agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of all necessary recommendations to the Board in connection executives and senior management as designated, as well as with corporate social responsibility issues as they affect specific remuneration packages, including pension rights and the Companys operations.
In particular, it focuses on any compensation payments.
compliance with national and international standards to ensure that effective systems of standards, procedures and The Remuneration Committee comprises the following practices are in place at each of the Companys operations.
independent Non-Executive Directors: Jorge Born Jr.
The CSR Committee is also responsible for reviewing Committee Chairman until 1 June 2009, Sir Malcolm Field managements investigation of incidents or accidents that Committee Chairman from 1 June 2009 and Nigel Moore.
occur in order to assess whether policy improvements The Committee held three meetings during the year under are required.
review at which all members were in attendance with the exception that Jorge Born Jr. was unable to attend The CSR Committee is chaired by Roberto Daino and one meeting.
its other members are Sir Malcolm Field and Eduardo Hochschild.
During the year, the CSR Committee held three Further details concerning the activities of the Remuneration meetings which were attended by all members.
In addition, Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report detailed updates on CSR related matters were presented on page 54. at two of the Board meetings held during the year.
Further details concerning the CSR Committee and the NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Groups activities in this area are set out in the corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 33.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board vacancies and make recommendations to the Board INTERNAL CONTROL on Board composition and balance.
The Nominations Committee also prepares the Chairmans job description Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups including any other significant commitments which he should system of internal control including risk management and be responsible for.
for reviewing its effectiveness, responsibility for the periodic review of the effectiveness of these controls has been The members of the Nominations Committee are delegated to the Audit Committee.
The system of internal Eduardo Hochschild Chairman, Sir Malcolm Field and control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Dionisio Romero.
of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be All members of the Nominations Committee were present recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable at the three meetings held during the year under review.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These controls are managed by the use of formal The matters considered by the Nominations Committee procedures designed to highlight financial, operational, during the year were: environmental and social risks and provide appropriate the consideration of any potential conflicts of interests information to the Board enabling it to protect effectively relating to, and the subsequent appointment of, Fred Vinton the Companys assets and, in turn, maintain shareholder as a Non-Executive Director: and value.
The process used by the Audit Committee to assess the effectiveness of internal control includes: the relevant recommendations arising from the Board evaluation process.
Review of budgets and reporting against budgets.
Mr Vinton was identified by the Board as an ideally suited Consideration of progress against strategic objectives.
candidate for a non-executive directorship of the Company Monitoring the risks faced by the Groups operations in light of his extensive capital markets and Latin American through reports from the Head of the Internal Audit business experience.
For these reasons, the Board did not function.
consider it necessary to either appoint an external search consultancy nor to conduct open advertising in the search Review of accounting and financial reporting processes for further candidates.
together with the internal control environment existing at Group level.
52 Gov Governance ernance A Accou ccoun nt ts s Based on its review of the process, the Audit Committee is INVESTOR RELATIONS reasonably satisfied that the internal controls are in place at the operational level within the Group.
In accordance with the The Company is fully committed to achieving an excellent Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is relationship with investors and contact with investors is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the responsibility of the Executive Directors, the Chief the significant risks faced by the Company, and that it has Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the been in place for the year under review and up to the date Head of Investor Relations.
of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board, via the Audit The Company announces its production results on a quarterly Committee, continues to monitor the internal control basis and analysts are invited to briefings following release environment of the Group alongside the development of risk of the annual and half-yearly results as well as to join management processes further details of which are given in discussions on the quarterly production results.
the risk management section of this Annual Report.
The Executive Directors, Chief Executive Officer and the Overall, the Board acknowledges that the steps taken to Chief Financial Officer are available to discuss the concerns initiate a risk management framework are appropriate to of major shareholders at any time during the year.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, in particular, will be responsible for discussing strategy with the Companys shareholders and will GOING CONCERN communicate the views of shareholders to the other members of the Board.
A statement on the Directors position regarding the Company as a going concern is contained in the Directors The main means of communication with shareholders are report on page 48. the Annual and Half-yearly Reports which are available on request.
The Company also uses the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders.
COMPANY SECRETARY Notice of the 2009 AGM was circulated to all shareholders at The Company Secretary is appointed and removed by the least 20 working days prior to the meeting and the Chairmen Board and is responsible for advising the Board on of the Audit, CSR, Remuneration and Nominations governance matters and the provision of administrative and Committees were available at the meeting to answer other services to the Board.
All the Directors have access to questions.
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions the Company Secretary.
It is intended that this approach will also be taken at the 2010 AGM with results of the voting at the AGM announced and published on the Companys website as soon as possible after the meeting.
Further information on matters of particular interest to investors is available on page 163 and on the Companys website at www.
