GOVERNANCE Corporate governance The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance There is a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved to the Board.
and is committed to maintaining high standards.
For the period under The Board has responsibility for: review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with the main and supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate the overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review of the Code.
This statement, together with the directors report and the performance, ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: directors remuneration report, provides a summary of the Groups prothe approval of announcements of half-yearly and final results, cedures for applying the principles of the Code and the extent to which including dividends, and the annual report and accounts, including such principles have been applied.
the corporate governance statement, remuneration report and The Company has complied fully with the remainder of the Code during statement on internal controls: the period under review by applying its principles as follows.
the approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders at general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than The Board routine documents: The Board consists of the chairman, Oliver Stocken: chief executive, Terry the approval of all appointments to the Board and of the company Duddy: finance director, Richard Ashton: and three non-executive directors: secretary, following recommendations by the nomination committee, John Coombe the senior independent director, Andy Hornby and Penny ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior Hughes.
The biographical details of the directors are shown in the Board of management, and approving the terms of reference of the Board Directors and Operating Board section on page 51. committees: and The three non-executive directors are all determined by the Board to determining the responsibilities of the chairman and of the be independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which chief executive.
could affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
The Company has in place formal procedures regarding con icts of interest The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The non-executive directors are its effectiveness, for effective communication with shareholders and for appointed for three-year renewable terms.
The Board is satis ed that the facilitating the effective contribution of the non-executive directors and chairmans other Board appointments and commitments do not place their constructive relationship with the executive directors.
constraints on his ability to ful l properly his role as chairman of Home The chief executive is responsible for the day-to-day business of the Retail Group.
Group, and is supported by the Operating Board, which includes the finance The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and meets more director and the managing directors of the main businesses and shared frequently, as required.
During the year, in addition to the scheduled meetservices functions.
Members of the Operating Board meet informally with ings, four additional meetings were held.
The chairman has also met with the chairman and non-executive directors and regularly attend and present the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
at Board meetings when relevant agenda items are under consideration.
The time commitment expected of non-executive directors is not There is in place a procedure under which the directors, in furtherance of restricted to meetings of the Board and Board committees.
They are availtheir duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, able for consultation on speci c issues related to their particular elds at the Companys expense.
The company secretary, who has been appointed of expertise and additional time is spent visiting the Groups businesses, by the Board, is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governdistribution centres and stores and meeting informally with the chairman, ance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and all executive directors and senior management.
The chairman also attends directors have access to this professional advice.
The company secretary management conferences.
During the year, all the non-executive directors ensures that the Board receives regular brie ngs on corporate governance attended a meeting with members of the Operating Board and senior matters and company legislation.
During the year the Board received a management from Argos and Homebase to discuss progress on business presentation from the Companys external legal advisers on directors initiatives.
responsibilities and developments in corporate governance and the regulatory environment.
Following the changes made to the Companys Articles of Association on 1 October 2008, which gave the directors the power to authorise fellow directors con icts of interest, the Company has put in place formal procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation are exercised properly and in accordance with the new Articles.
54 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Corporate governance continued A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees Remuneration committee was conducted during the year.
The functioning of the Board, Board proThe remuneration committee is chaired by Andy Hornby and its other cesses and interaction with management were discussed and opportunities members are John Coombe, Penny Hughes and Oliver Stocken.
Terry Duddy for improvement were considered.
In addition, the audit and remuneration attends meetings of the committee at the request of the committee chaircommittees conducted internal reviews of their effectiveness, taking into man.
In accordance with the Code, the committee meets not less than three account the views of senior management working with these committees.
Details of its responsibilities and of compliance with Section B Individual appraisals of directors have been undertaken by the chairman.
of the Code regarding remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration Under the leadership of the senior independent director, the non-executive report on pages 58 to 66. directors met without the chairman present to appraise the chairmans performance, taking account of any views expressed by the executive Nomination committee directors.
The nomination committee is chaired by Oliver Stocken and its other memAll directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opporbers are John Coombe, Terry Duddy, Andy Hornby and Penny Hughes.
tunity after their appointment and, thereafter, in accordance with the The nomination committee meets not less than twice a year and has Companys Articles of Association.
All directors will be required to submit responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the compothemselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Oliver Stocken sition of the Board and its committees, on retirements, appointments of and Richard Ashton will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on additional and replacement directors and on succession planning.
During 1 July 2009 and will be eligible for re-election.
the year, the nomination committee has considered the composition of the The letters of appointment for non-executive directors, including the Board and its committees and succession planning.
chairman, are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered of ce during normal business hours and at the Annual General Audit committee Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The audit committee is chaired by John Coombe and its other members are Andy Hornby and Penny Hughes.
John Coombe was formerly chief financial Board committees of cer of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The Board considers that he has the recent The Board has appointed the following principal committees: remuneration and relevant financial experience required to chair the audit committee.
committee, nomination committee and audit committee.
The terms of refAndy Hornby and Penny Hughes also contribute a wide range of experience erence of each of these committees are available on the Companys website from positions at the highest level of business.
Oliver Stocken, Terry Duddy, at www.
In order to facilitate better communication Richard Ashton, the Group head of internal audit and the external auditors with Board members and the provision of information to the Board, all attend meetings of the committee at the request of the committee chairindependent non-executive directors serve on each of the Board committees.
Further details of the members of the audit committee are set out in The attendance of directors at scheduled meetings of the Board and the the Board of Directors and Operating Board section on page 51.
Board committees was as follows: The audit committee normally meets no fewer than four times a year and its principal responsibilities cover internal control and risk manageBoard Audit Remuneration Nomination ment, internal audit, external audit including auditor independence and meetings committee committee committee 3,4 3 3 3 Board member 10 4 6 2 financial reporting.
The committee met with the external auditors and the 1 head of internal audit at least once during the year without the presence of Terry Duddy 10 4 6 2 executive directors or management.
1 Richard Ashton 10 4 The committee has a structured programme linked to the Groups nancial calendar.
During the period under review, the committee undertook the 2 Oliver Stocken 10 4 6 2 following activities: John Coombe 10 4 6 2 reviewed the full-year announcement, annual report and financial Andy Hornby 9 3 5 2 statements and the half-yearly announcement and considered reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental Penny Hughes 10 4 6 2 issues requiring its attention: reviewed the statement in the annual report on the system of Notes: internal control: 1.
Terry Duddy and Richard Ashton are not members of the audit committee or the remuneration committee.
reviewed and approved audit plans for the external and internal auditors: 2.
Oliver Stocken is not a member of the audit committee.
considered quarterly reports from the head of internal audit on the 3.
Includes the final meetings of the period under review which took place in early March 2009. results of internal audit reviews, signi cant findings, management 4.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board, four additional meetings action plans and timeliness of resolution: were held in which all Board members participated.
reviewed reports on the Groups risk management process and risk pro le: reviewed presentations on risk and its identi cation, management and control with senior management: reviewed, at each scheduled meeting, a report on any material litigation involving Group companies: Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 55 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud: and However, certain areas of work are speci cally prohibited including work reviewed arrangements by which Group employees may, in con dence, related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, be subject to external audit and management of or signi cant involvement dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles and other matters.
The committee chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company One of the primary responsibilities of the audit committee is to make uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
The recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointcommittee receives half-yearly reports providing details of assignments ment and removal of the external auditors.
A number of factors were taken and related fees carried out by the external auditors in addition to their into account by the committee in assessing whether to recommend the normal work.
Fees in respect of such assignments carried out in the period external auditors for re-appointment.
These include: under review were: m the quality of reports provided to the audit committee and the Board Further assurance services 0.1 and the quality of advice given: the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses Taxation services 0.1 and the retail sector: and the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around All other services 0.2 the Group.
Accountability and audit The committee recognises that auditor independence is an essential part The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of of the audit framework and the assurance it provides.
Audit fees paid to the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is fideCompanys auditors,  LLP in respect of the period signed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business under review exceeded non-audit fees.
The committee has established objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against control procedures to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of external auditors and to ensure that the independence of the audit work the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control.
undertaken by the external auditors is not compromised.
The Board con rms that the Company has in place an ongoing process The committee has established a policy covering the type of nonfor identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the audit work that can be assigned to the external auditors.
The auditors may Group, including risks relating to environmental, social and governance only provide such services provided that these do not con ict with their matters.
This process was in place throughout the period under review and statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
These services are: up to the date of approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the guidance issued in October 2005 entitled Internal Control: further assurance services where the external auditors knowledge of Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out such The audit committee has kept under review the effectiveness of this system work.
This may include but is not restricted to shareholder and other of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
circulars regulatory reports and work in connection with acquisitions As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the effecand divestments: tiveness of the internal control system there are procedures designed to taxation services where the external auditors knowledge of the capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and to ensure that necessary Groups affairs may provide signi cant advantages to the Groups tax action is taken to remedy any failings that may be categorised by the Board position and where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender: and as signi cant.
general in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide services provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
56 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Corporate governance continued The key procedures which were operational in the period under review were Monitoring as follows: a range of procedures was used to monitor the effective application of internal control in the Group, including management assurance through Risk assessment con rmation of compliance with standards, and independent assurance risks were reviewed by management and updated as part of a bi-annual through internal audit reviews and review by specialist third parties: process.
The risks identi ed were then reviewed by a risk committee the internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to chaired by the finance director and comprised of all divisional finance the audit committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, directors and the company secretary.
The head of internal audit also with a particular focus on those areas identi ed as being the greatest attended its meetings: risk to the Group: those risks classi ed as high-level risks by the risk committee were then follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate reported to the Operating Board and audit committee.
The schedule of response to changes and developments in risks and the control high-level risks was used as the basis for a programme of internal audit environment.
and assurance: the audit committee has delegated responsibility from the Board Going concern for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a The directors are satis ed that the Company has suf cient resources to regular basis and received its annual report on the controls over continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue these risks.
This included risks arising from environmental, social to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Relations with institutional shareholders Control environment and control activities The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its sharethe Group has established procedures for delegating authority, which holders and does so through a variety of channels, including the annual ensures that decisions that are signi cant, either because of the value or report, the Annual General Meeting and the processes described below.
the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level: Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the chief executive the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each and the finance director supported by management specialising in investor signi cant risk that has been identi ed.
These strategies include internal relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by the chaircontrols, insurance and specialised treasury instruments: man, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
the Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered to.
During the year, the chairman has also held meetings with a number of These include risk identi cation, management and reporting standards, investors.
ethical principles and practice and accounting policies.
Meetings with investors have been held following the full and half-yearly results announcements.
A monthly summary of all important or relevant Information and communication issues raised by shareholders during the course of meetings and discussions the Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, including is circulated to the Board and reviewed as appropriate at scheduled monthly performance reviews by the Operating Board.
Board also reviews a range of financial and nonfinancial performance Additionally during the year, the Board and, in particular, the nonindicators.
These indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that they executive directors received a presentation from the Companys joint brokers remain relevant and reliable: on the UK equity market and the market perception of the Company.
the Group had whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
holders also have a direct line of communication to the chairman, particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, strategy or governance.
The senior independent director is also available should shareholders have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the chairman, chief executive and the finance director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All directors, including the chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees, intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at the Annual General Meeting will be by way of a poll by members present at the meeting and, following each vote, the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against the resolution and the number of votes withheld, will be displayed.
The results of voting at the Annual General Meeting will also be available on the Companys website at www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009 57
