HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance 44 Corporate governance HomeServe complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Combined Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in 2003 as updated in June 2006 the Code.
The manner in which the Company applies the principles of good governance contained in the Code is described in the appropriate parts of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Thus the application by the Company of the Codes principles relating to remuneration matters in the Remuneration report should be read in conjunction with the statement below.
A review of the Groups position and prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Financial review.
The Board The Board of Directors leads and controls the Company by holding at least eight meetings a year at which its current and forecast performance is reviewed and monitored.
Regular reports on monthly performance and other matters of importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary to make informed judgements.
In addition, the Board holds regular meetings at least annually, also attended by senior operational management, to devise and discuss the Companys medium and long term strategic focus and management development strategy.
Regular formal and informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to apprise Directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the Board are held at the Companys operating sites other than Walsall, in order to afford the Board, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, with the opportunity to meet with local management.
In accordance with the provisions of its Articles of Association and with the Code, each Director is subject to election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following his appointment and is subject to re-election at least every three years thereafter.
The Board has a Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of the various committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include the recommendation or approval of dividends, the approval of preliminary and interim financial statements, major financial commitments, the acquisitions of significant companies or businesses, appointments to the Board and its Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, the Companys future strategy and its internal controls.
It also provides that the Board receive regular updates from the chairmen of its committees.
During the year the Board was led by Brian Whitty, the Chairman, who also served as a member of the Boards Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly defined in a written specification agreed by the Board and which makes clear the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of the Board, effective communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the general progress and long term development of the Group.
His executive responsibilities include overall responsibility for Emergency Services following the departure of Ian Carlisle.
The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice and all members of the Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The day-to-day running of HomeServes business is delegated to an Executive Committee which is led by Richard Harpin, Chief Executive.
Other members of the Executive Committee, together with biographical details, are listed on page 39.
During the year, four independent Non-Executive Directors Messrs Maxwell, Chippendale, Gibson and Sibbald with extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds, provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
John Maxwell served as the Companys senior independent Non-Executive Director until 27 February 2009 when he was replaced by Barry Gibson.
Mark Morris was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 27 February 2009.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 45 The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which it operates: and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of Directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations, and they have the opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and external advisers.
Further training for Directors has been provided as appropriate during the year, including training in relation to their duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Remuneration and Audit committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
The evaluation process, which was conducted by the Chairman and Company Secretary, was concluded in March 2008.
Directors completed evaluation questionnaires, and attended one-to-one meetings with the Chairman and Company Secretary to discuss the existing and future needs of the Board, its composition and the skills of its members.
A formal written report summarising their views and containing recommendations to further improve the effectiveness of the Board and its committees was prepared by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the whole Board in March 2008.
The Board concluded that it and the committees reviewed operate effectively, although a number of recommendations for further improvement were approved.
Meetings with the Chairman to discuss feedback relating to the effectiveness of individual Directors took place in April 2008.
Following this, a further informal review was undertaken in summer 2009 by an external consultant to explore in more detail certain aspects of the feedback.
The results of this external review were considered by the Board in January 2009.
Committees The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities and each of which has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards committees are available on request from the Company Secretary.
A Risk Committee, comprising certain Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee, operates across the Group and is chaired by Jonathan Simpson-Dent.
Its terms of reference have been approved by the Board and its purpose is to establish the Groups risk appetite, to evaluate the risk registers compiled by each of its businesses, to monitor the effectiveness of its action plans for the mitigation of those risks, and to report thereon to the Audit Committee and the Board, which retains responsibility for the overall evaluation of the Groups risk management processes.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors, is chaired by Brian Whitty, and Ian Chippendale, Barry Gibson and John Maxwell, independent NonExecutive Directors also all served on the Committee throughout the year or in the case of John Maxwell, until 27 February 2009.
Other members of the Board may be invited, but are not entitled, to attend its meetings.
The Committee draws on the advice of such professional advisers as it considers necessary and, during the year, met informally on several occasions to consider the possible appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Having consulted professional advisers and informal contacts, Mark Morris was appointed on 27 February 2009.
Its duties include the review of the size, structure and composition required of the Board, and succession planning for Directors and other senior managers.
During the year, these duties were undertaken by the Board itself.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance 46 Corporate governance Audit Committee Until 27 February 2009 the Audit Committee was chaired by John Maxwell, a chartered accountant and the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors with Barry Gibson and Ian Chippendale being the other members.
Mark Morris was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 27 February 2009.
He comes from a strong financial background having worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc finance director.
The Committee meets regularly to review the preliminary and interim results before they are presented to the Board, to receive reports from the Companys internal and external auditors and to make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies.
Its primary duties include the monitoring, on behalf of the Board, of compliance with and the effectiveness of the Companys accounting and internal control systems.
The Committees duties also include agreeing audit strategy, monitoring the scope and results of the Companys annual audit and the independence and objectivity of its auditors.
The internal and external auditors and the Chief Financial Officer are invited, but are not entitled, to attend all meetings.
Where appropriate, the Chairman and Chief Executive and other Executive Directors also attend meetings at the Chairmans invitation.
The external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, whether at Committee meetings or, more informally outside of them.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting for the appointment of the external auditors, the approval of their remuneration and their terms of engagement.
The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
This policy provides that, excluding certain specialist services, the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should not normally be more than 50% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the external audit process.
The results of the last review of the external audit process were considered by the Audit Committee in May 2009.
Remuneration Committee The Committee was chaired by Barry Gibson until 27 February 2009 when Ian Chippendale was appointed.
The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors, Ian Chippendale and John Maxwell being its other members until 27 February 2009 and from that date, the other members were Barry Gibson and Mark Morris.
The Remuneration Committees responsibilities include determining the Groups overall remuneration strategy and the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, after having consulted with the Chairman and Chief Executive and having received professional advice from remuneration consultants.
The Committee is also responsible for approving the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees fit, and regularly monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice, in order to ensure that the packages provided are sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors of the necessary quality.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Companys Board.
Short biographies of each of the Directors, including their membership of the Boards committees outlined above, may be found on page 39.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 47 Attendance at meetings The table below sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees by each member during the year.
Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 3 4 Meetings attended B H Whitty 10 R D Harpin 10 1 8 I Carlisle J Florsheim 10 J Simpson-Dent 9 2 J H Maxwell 8 3 3 I Chippendale 9 3 3 J M B Gibson 9 2 4 A Sibbald 9 3 M Morris 1 1 1 Mr Carlisle left the Company on 31 January 2009 2 Mr Maxwell left the Company on 27 February 2009 3 Mr Morris was appointed on 27 February 2009 Relationships with shareholders The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the senior independent Non-Executive Director and the Chairman, who are available to discuss any questions which investors may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through its website or by telephoning its offices.
The Board also recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders about the Group.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to all Directors upon publication, monthly analyses of the Companys shareholder register are made available to the Board and written feedback from shareholders and analysts, prepared by the Groups brokers and public relations advisers is provided to all Directors after every significant corporate event and at least twice a year.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
Principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Financial review.
In addition, the Financial review includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
The Directors confirm that, after reviewing the Groups budget and projected cash flows, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Internal controls As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code relating to internal controls, having implemented the procedures necessary to comply with the guidance on internal control published in October 2005 Turnbull Guidance and to report in line with that guidance.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance 48 Corporate governance The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an established internal control framework in place, which is continually reviewed and updated taking into account the changing nature of the Groups operations.
This process has been in place for the whole of the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The key elements of the system operated by the Group to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks include the following: The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses, whereby each of the risks identified is reviewed in detail by the Executive Directors on a regular basis.
Weekly telephone meetings of the Executive Committee monitor its day-to-day performance, and full Executive Committee meetings are held on a monthly basis at which the Groups senior managers report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local Boards of management, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function which reports directly to the Audit Committee and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
Financial results and cash flows, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified to initiate action to mitigate them.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
The Committee has adopted a formal whistleblowing policy for employees who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Companys activities on a confidential basis.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any significant new business acquired or begun by the Company immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews a register summarising the significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has carried out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The processes applied by the Board include: At the end of the year, the Executive Directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Risk and Audit Committees and by the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
The Group has an independent Internal Audit function which reviews the overall effectiveness of the risk management process for the key risks and reports independently to the Audit Committee.
At each meeting the Audit Committee reviews reports of the Executive Directors and the internal and external auditors, on any issues identified as having a potentially substantial impact on the results of the Group, or areas of control weakness.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of managing financial risk and refers any risks it considers significant to the Board for its consideration.
The Risk Committee meets at least quarterly to assist the Audit Committee to monitor these risks, as well as to set the Groups risk appetite and to evaluate in detail risk registers compiled by the Groups businesses.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews the work plans and results of each of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of all Audit Committee meetings to the Board, which also receives minutes of all such meetings.
