68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:09 Page 7 corporate governance Statement of compliance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60.
The Board is able to report compliance with the Combined Code throughout 2009.
A new UK Corporate Governance Code is expected to be issued in 2010 to replace the Combined Code and, in the case of the Company, it will be effective from the start of 2011.
Based on the proposed new code circulated by the Financial Reporting Council in December 2009, it is envisaged that the Company will be in a position to comply in all material respects.
The Board At the end of the year the Board comprised eight directors: the Chairman: Chief Executive: four independent non-executive directors: the Finance Director and one operational executive director.
Changes in the composition of the Board during the year are noted in the Directors' Report.
The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Combined Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Group's executive management.
The Chairman, Norman Askew, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment in May 2005.
Terry Gateley is the senior independent director.
The non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 34 and 35.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for election at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
In addition, each director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board provides leadership, direction and control for the Group and oversees business and management performance.
The Board has an established list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive directors.
Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the composition of the Group.
The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group.
Senior executives from around the Group are invited by the Board to attend certain meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reflected in a written statement approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and running of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the business and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
The executive team until 1 September 2009 comprised: the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb: Finance Director, Douglas Hurt: and two operational executives, David Nicholas and Roy Twite.
Changes in executive responsibilities were announced in March 2009 and David Nicholas retired as a director on 1 September 2009.
After a period of transition, responsibility for operations was assumed by the Chief Executive to whom all five businesses directly report.
Roy Twite became President of Fluid Power and heads the Group supply chain function in addition to his Group level responsibility for health and safety.
Non-executive directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits and formal meetings.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Combined Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
The Board met on nine occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions, visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
All members of the Board were in attendance at each of the meetings held during their tenure save that Anita Frew missed one meeting and Douglas Hurt and Bob Stack each missed one telephone conference meeting.
Pursuant to the Combined Code, and in accordance with best practice, the non-executive directors met as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year and the senior independent director, Terry Gateley, convened one such meeting in the absence of the Chairman.
Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each of these committees operate under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee were updated in December 2008 and appear on the Company website www.
42 Corporate Governance 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:09 Page 8 Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Terry Gateley.
All of the other independent non-executive directors were also members of the Audit Committee.
Terry Gateley is a qualified Chartered Accountant and has significant relevant financial experience.
The committee conducted a competitive tender process which resulted in it recommending the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young as auditor.
The Board accepted the recommendation and Ernst & Young became auditor in June 2009 replacing KPMG Audit Plc.
The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies, significant issues of judgement including contingent liabilities, fair values and impairments, and, as described below under the section headed Internal Control starting on page 44, it looked at the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
The committee approved the proposed external audit approach and scope as well as the internal audit programme.
The committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee and was restated during the year.
The restated policy requires approval by the Chairman of the committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed 150,000 2008: 100,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work.
The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the IMI Group Assurance Department, and reviews the operation of the Group whistle blowing policy and procedure which was enhanced in 2008 by the launch of an independent hotline www.
The committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and this was given particular attention in relation to the 2009 audit which was the first conducted by Ernst & Young since its appointment in June 2009.
The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to appoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance except that Anita Frew missed one meeting.
The committee regularly calls upon the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other personnel, including the Controller and the Group Assurance Director, to attend for parts of its meetings.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Bob Stack, who took up the role on 12 June 2009 when Kevin Beeston stepped down.
Norman Askew, Kevin Beeston, Anita Frew, Terry Gateley and Bob Stack were members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
The committee's main responsibilities are to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments and to set the Chairmans remuneration.
As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of the performance related elements of executive remuneration and other benefits.
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management.
The committee met on six occasions during the year with all members in attendance except that Anita Frew missed one meeting.
External consultants were engaged by the committee to provide advice and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Human Resources Director attended its meetings when required.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work and more details are given in the Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprised the Chairman, Norman Askew, who chairs the committee, all of the independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
During the year the committee reviewed the Board composition and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its committees.
External consultants are normally engaged by the committee in relation to any search for successor non-executives.
Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter.
Each non-executive director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee.
The committee considered that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient.
The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and during the year it made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the composition of the Remuneration Committee.
During the year the committee spent a substantial part of its time on executive talent development and succession planning.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors, the Group Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary.
It meets monthly and more often as may be required in order to monitor performance, review business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board.
It also acts as the Risk Committee reporting to the Board and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance, business and other risks.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
IMI plc Annual Report 2009 43 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 20 3 10 07:09 Page 9 corporate governance Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been in operation for several years.
It is overseen and kept up to date by the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive, Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director.
During and after induction directors are encouraged to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.
Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors and all directors participated in some appropriate training during the year.
An internal evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors, was commenced in 2009 and the Chairman reported on it to the Board in March 2010.
This process included questionnaires and interviews and appropriate follow-up discussions involving the Chairman and Group Human Resources Director.
In addition, the directors met with the senior independent director regarding the performance of the Chairman and the Chairman met individually with each of the directors to canvass their views.
The Board received the findings of the evaluation in March 2010 and the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately.
Actions agreed as a result include the establishment of a new risk committee of the Board including non-executive directors and further developing succession planning at Board and senior executive levels.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
The contribution and performance of individual directors standing for election or re-election is commented on in the notice of the annual general meeting issued to shareholders with this annual report.
Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2009 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2009 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors report for 2008.
A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2009 annual general meeting was dispatched more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Companys website.
In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements in March and August, respectively, as well as, interim management statements in May and November.
The Company has its own website www.
com which includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with J. P. Morgan Cazenove details are shown on page 122.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report thereon to the Board at least quarterly.
They are supported by the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw.
In addition, financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors views.
The Chairman, senior independent director and other non-executives will meet with major shareholders upon request and otherwise if any of them considers it appropriate.
Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, voting and other rights of shareholders, directors appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors Report on pages 36 to 41.
Financial reporting processes The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group ensures that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the Combined Code and relevant guidance as updated by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Committee Guidance.
Consistent with the Turnbull Committee Guidance, the Board has assigned responsibility for the continuous review of risk management and controls to the Executive Committee.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit and the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department.
44 Corporate Governance 68845 IMI AR pp36-60:Layout 1 22 3 10 12:08 Page 45 Each operating unit is required to undertake a continuous process of business risk assessment and reporting.
This is reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and any major risk issues are considered by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee makes regular reports to the Board on major business risks faced by individual operations and by the Group and how those risks are managed.
Through this process major business risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their probability and materiality and the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to control such risks.
The Board has clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and the executive directors.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations.
All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in detail by the executive directors and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group standards.
There is also a central internal audit function, the IMI Group Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews.
These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department and co-ordinated with external audit.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel and co-ordinated with the external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and audit reports are made to the Board and the Audit Committee, as appropriate, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and whenever weakness in the internal control system is identified appropriate remedial action is taken.
As a result of internal investigations during 2007 it became apparent that improper payments and trade law violations had occurred in IMI's CCI business.
IMI had established policies and controls in place to guard against such non-compliance, but these were circumvented through collusion by a group of CCI employees.
Significant employee changes have been made in CCI as a result and a major ethics and compliance program, known as The IMI Way, has been adopted by the Group under the leadership of the Chief Executive.
The IMI Way is promulgated through a new Group compliance function headed by Jo Morgan, who was formerly a member of the corporate legal team at IMI.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2009 and up to the date of this Annual Report, including the changes to personnel and compliance procedures within CCI.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Responsible business The Company has a Code of Responsible Business known as The IMI Way, which appears on its website.
The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and the Code of Responsible Business incorporates a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group.
At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group chaired by an executive director and key issues of corporate social responsibility are identified, monitored and addressed through the Groups risk assessment processes.
The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
In addition, in 2009 IMI retained its membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and IMI is a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the Company website.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 3 March 2010 IMI plc Annual Report 2009 45
