1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 39 Corporate Governance Report We remain committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which we see as the cornerstone of managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of the Board discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Introduction The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for our standards of governance.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, seeks to explain how in practice we apply the principles of good governance, advocated by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Code sets out governance rules and best practice provisions which apply to UK listed companies.
Companies must either comply with these provisions or provide an explanation for areas of non-compliance.
The Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant with the Code throughout our 2008 2009 financial year.
HOW WE MEET OUR GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITIES IN PRACTICE A.
Directors B. Remuneration 1 The Board: How do we ensure the Company 1 The level and make-up of remuneration: What is is headed by an effective, collectively our approach to remuneration and how do we link responsible Board?
2 Chairman and Chief Executive: How do we ensure 2 Procedure: What is our formal procedure for no one individual has unfettered powers of decision?
developing our policy on executive remuneration?
3 Board balance and independence: How do we ensure a sensible balance of Executive and C. Accountability and audit Non-Executive Directors?
1 Financial reporting: How do we ensure we 4 Appointments to the Board: How rigorous is our present a clear and balanced assessment of the procedure for the appointment of new directors to Companys position?
2 Internal control: What does our Board do to maintain 5 Information and professional development: How do a sound system of internal control?
we induct and regularly inform our Board?
3 Audit Committee and Auditors: How do we formally 6 Performance evaluation: How do we formally evaluate apply financial reporting and internal control principles?
our Board and Committees performance annually?
7 Re-election: How do we ensure planned and D. Relations with shareholders progressive refreshing of the Board?
1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders: How does our Board ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place?
2 Constructive use of the AGM: How does the Board effectively use the AGM to engage with investors?
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 39 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE BOARD CHAIRMAN AND REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS AUDIT NON-EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE RISK CO-ORDINATION COMMITTEE our Non-Executive Directors play a valuable role by critically A.
Directors reviewing and, where appropriate, challenging strategies proposed by management to further develop our business, effectively use 1 The Board: How do we ensure the our resources and our standards of conduct.
This ensures we act Company is headed by an effective, in the best long-term interests of our shareholders, while taking collectively responsible Board?
account of the wider community of interests represented by our employees, customers and suppliers.
Where appropriate, papers Board and Board Committees presented to our Board cover environmental, community, ethical Board Structure and reputational issues, thereby fully integrating them into our The Board met six times during the year with two of the meetings decision making and risk assessment processes.
having a duration of two days and is scheduled to meet five times in the 2010 financial year.
HOW THE BOARD SPENDS ITS TIME Our Directors for the year to 30 September 2009 are shown Strategy on pages 36 and 37.
Their biographies demonstrate a detailed Performance knowledge of the tobacco industry and the wider fast moving Financing consumer goods FMCG sector.
This is supported with a wide Governance OHSE range of international business and financial experience which is Integration vital to our ongoing development and long-term sustainability.
Their Other biographies also include details of any other major directorships.
Board Operations The Board is our principal decision making forum and manages overall control of the Groups affairs.
Key to this control is the schedule of matters on which the Board alone may make decisions.
These include approving our commercial strategy, corporate plans, major corporate activities and our financial statements, together During the year matters considered by the Board included the with dividends.
In addition, it is only the Board who can appoint evolving strategic direction of the business, review of Group and remove Directors and our Company Secretary.
funding arrangements specifically refinancing through Bond To ensure the effective operation of our Board, the Company issues, the change in role of Mrs A J Cooper to Chief Operating Secretary provides advice on all governance and regulatory Officer, the potential effect of the recession including mitigating matters.
He also assists the Chairman and Chief Executive recessionary pressures and the ongoing integration of the in setting the agenda for Board meetings.
At its June 2009 meeting, Senior managers from across the DIRECTOR INDUSTRY BACKGROUND EXPERIENCE business presented to the Board on key strategic issues.
During the year the Board also considered and approved Tobacco annual and medium-term plans and operating results.
Manufacturing FMCG By reviewing the Groups results at each Board meeting we Legal ensure Board members are kept informed on our progress.
Energy Between Board meetings, Board members are supplied with monthly performance reports, including detailed commentary and analysis.
To ensure Board members are fully informed on all Committee matters they receive reports and minutes from the chairmen of the Board Committees.
Our Non-Executive Directors also meet regularly, outside of scheduled Board meetings.
The main item discussed at such meetings during the year was succession planning.
All Directors are equally accountable to our shareholders for Our Non-Executive Directors play a key role in corporate the proper stewardship of our affairs and the success of the accountability and governance through their membership of the Company.
By using their judgement, experience and independence, Board Committees.
The membership and remit of each Committee 40 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 41 STRUCTURE OF THE BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS AUDIT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Iain Napier, Robert Dyrbus Iain Napier, Susan Murray Mark Williamson, Pierre Jungels, Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Michael Herlihy Berge Setrakian Gareth Davis Bruno Bich Michael Herlihy Michael Herlihy Pierre Jungels Mark Williamson to 16 September 2009 Jean-Dominique Pierre Jungels Charles Knott Charles Knott Comolli Ken Burnett Matthew Phillips Charles Knott Susan Murray Susan Murray Secretary Bruno Bich Jean-Dominique Susan Murray Iain Napier Berge Setrakian to 16 September 2009 Comolli to 7 September 2009 Mark Williamson Graham Blashill Michael Herlihy Matthew Phillips Mark Williamson Secretary Ken Burnett Pierre Jungels Matthew Phillips Alison Cooper Matthew Phillips Charles Knott Secretary Secretary Chief Executives Committee To ensure the effective implementation of Group strategy and As part of the Groups policy of annual review, the terms of reference policy our Board delegates authority of the day-to-day operation for each of these Committees were reviewed and, where necessary, of the business to our Chief Executive and Chief Executives updated during the year and are published on our website, www.
They are also available from the Committee.
This delegation is, however, subject to the schedule Company Secretary.
of matters on which the Board alone can decide and those which can only be decided by our shareholders.
The Committee, which met 20 times during the year, comprises are considered below, together with a record of each Directors the Executive Directors, the Manufacturing Director, the Chief attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year.
Operating Officer Cigar, the Group Human Resources Director, together with the Company Secretary.
To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, In addition to implementing our strategy, the Committee oversees our Chairman and chairmen of the Committees communicate all the Groups activities, forecasts, policies and operations, to regularly with the Chief Executive and other members of the Chief ensure that the use and level of the Groups resources are optimised Executives Committee on an ongoing basis.
As part of this ongoing review process In order for our Directors to fulfil their duties they can seek both the Committee develops and recommends to the Board any independent professional advice, at our expense, and the advice changes in strategy to enable us to achieve our overall objective and services of the Company Secretary and other employees.
of creating sustainable shareholder value.
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD, BOARD COMMITTEES AND SHAREHOLDERS Audit Remuneration Nominations Annual Board Committee Committee Committee General Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 2009 634 11 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year 2009 Executive Directors Mr G Davis 6 6 1 1 Mr R Dyrbus 6 6 1 1 Mr G L Blashill 6 6 1 1 1 Mrs A J Cooper 5 5 1 1 Non-Executive Directors 2 Mr I J G Napier 6 6 4 4 1 1 1 1 3 Mr B F Bich 5 6 1 1 1 1 Dr K M Burnett 6 6 1 1 1 1 Mr J-D Comolli 6 6 1 1 1 1 Mr M H C Herlihy 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 Dr P H Jungels 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 Mr C F Knott 5 6 3 3 3 4 0 1 1 1 Ms S E Murray 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 Mr B Setrakian 5 6 0 1 1 1 Mr M D Williamson 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 Mrs Cooper was not eligible to attend one Board meeting which related to her appointment as Chief Operating Officer.
2 Mr Napier stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 7 September 2009.
3 Mr Bich resigned from the Board on 16 September 2009.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 41 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued 2 Mr Comolli is our Deputy Chairman and Dr P H Jungels is Chairman and Chief Executive: How do our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to whom we ensure no one individual has unfettered we encourage shareholders to raise any concerns.
Following its annual evaluation page 43 and review of potential Our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined and conflicts of interest, the Board concluded at its meeting in separate responsibilities, however, they retain a close working September 2009 that all our Non-Executive Directors continue relationship and meet regularly between formal Board meetings to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate.
They to ensure a full understanding of evolving issues and facilitate also continue to challenge effectively and question management swift decision making.
They are responsible to our shareholders objectively and robustly and at all times have the best interests for the successful and profitable delivery of our strategy.
of our stakeholders in mind.
We, therefore, confirm that, with the exception of Mr Comolli and our Chairman as required by the Our Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership of the Code our Directors remain independent as defined in the Code.
Board, ensuring all Directors are able to fully contribute to discussions and we benefit from their wide range of skills and In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 experience.
Supported by the Deputy Chairman and Senior the Act relating to Conflicts of Interest, revised Articles of Independent Non-Executive Director, he is also responsible for Association were adopted at our Annual General Meeting ensuring effective communication with shareholders and ensuring AGM in January 2008.
These provisions became effective they can raise any concerns.
Our Chief Executive, supported by the Chief Executives These Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise Committee, is responsible for the day-to-day leadership of situations in which a Director has, or may have, a direct or the Group and ensuring the successful implementation of the indirect interest that conflicts or may conflict with the interests strategies and objectives set by the Board.
These are known as situational conflicts.
The Act also requires Directors to declare any interest in a BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company.
These are known as transactional conflicts.
Executives Our procedures require Directors to give notice of any potential Non-executives situational and or transactional conflicts.
This includes prior approval of external directorships.
Any notifications are considered at the next Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, authorised.
We do not let any Director participate in the discussion, or vote regarding their own conflicts.
If authorised, any conflicts are entered in our Conflicts Register.
We reviewed and reconsidered all conflicts entered in our Conflicts Register at our Board meeting in September 2009.
We intend to perform this review and reconsideration annually.
This process allows the Board to be satisfied there is no compromise to the independence of those Directors who have 3 Board balance and independence: board appointments or relationships with companies outside the How do we ensure a sensible balance of Group.
In order to underpin his independence, we entered into Executive and Non-Executive Directors?
an agreement with Mr B Setrakian on 25 June 2008 to minimise the risk of any conflict of interest between, inter alia, the law firm We see having a Board with the right skill set as vital to our Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, of which he is a partner, and the Company.
Our Executive Directors are all Following a review of compliance with the terms of the agreement experts in their specific roles and, in addition, have a wealth of the Board confirms his ongoing independence.
experience in the wider tobacco industry.
This is complemented and supplemented by the wide range of business and financial experience of our Non-Executive Directors who have been appointed to bring specific skills to the Board, for example their expertise within the wider FMCG sector, financial and legal expertise and, as we expand geographically, specific regional knowledge.
We believe the Board is well balanced and, notwithstanding the resignation of Mr B F Bich, remains appropriately constituted.
The Board currently has 13 Directors: our Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors, seven independent Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director Mr J-D Comolli who we do not classify as independent when determining the composition of our Board and its Committees.
We do not classify Mr Comolli, for the purposes of the Code, as independent due to his ongoing Chairmanships of certain subsidiaries within our Group and his provision of certain consultancy services to us.
Mr Comolli will cease to provide consultancy services to us with effect from the end of the 2009 2010 financial year.
42 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 1 12 09 13:30 Page 43 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Committees terms of reference are published on our website, www.
com 5 Information and professional Iain Napier development: How do we induct and Chairman regularly inform our Board?
We have a detailed induction and briefing programme for 4 Directors on appointment to the Board.
We tailor this programme Appointments to the Board: to each Directors needs taking into account their individual How rigorous is our procedure for the qualifications and experience.
appointment of new directors to the Board?
For example, Mr B Setrakians induction programme, completed during the year, included meetings with our advisers and key employees from our major functions together with site visits.
Members These meetings also included briefings on corporate responsibility and corporate affairs issues, legal matters, product stewardship, Mr I J G Napier Mr C F Knott environmental management, social impact, scientific and Chairman Ms S E Murray Mr B F Bich regulatory affairs and commercial risk management.
Mr B Setrakian resigned 16 September 2009 Mr M D Williamson Ongoing training is available to all Directors to meet their individual Dr K M Burnett Mr M R Phillips Mr J-D Comolli needs.
We also provide regular briefings to Directors on relevant Company Secretary, acts as Mr M H C Herlihy Secretary to the Committee issues such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate Dr P H Jungels governance developments.
For example, during the year our Auditors gave a presentation to the Board in respect of fraud Overview and corruption risk.
The Nominations Committee comprises all our Non-Executive During our September 2009 Board meeting Directors visited our Directors and meets as required.
During the financial year the Logistics operations in Spain where they met senior managers Committee met once.
We evaluated the performance of the and received detailed presentations on our Logistics business.
Committee as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees also received Responsibilities briefings from our Auditors,  LLP, The responsibilities of the Committee include: and remuneration adviser Hewitt New Bridge Street respectively the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and to ensure they remain up-to-date with current regulations experience of our Board: and developments.
the development of role specifications: 6 Performance evaluation: How do the formulation of succession plans: and we formally evaluate our Board and the making of recommendations to the Board with regard Committees performance annually?
to the appointment of Directors.
During the year, with the assistance of an external consultant, our How the Nominations Committee Met its Responsibilities Board formally reviewed and evaluated its performance, together During the Year with the performance of its Committees and individual Directors.
In addition to the Nominations Committees formal meeting, which Feedback from each Director was obtained through detailed recommended to the Board the appointment of Mrs A J Cooper questionnaires which were used as the basis for the overall to the position of Chief Operating Officer, the Non-Executive evaluation of the Board and its Committees and feedback Directors held a number of meetings and discussions during discussions between each Director and the Chairman.
The results the year concerning Board succession planning.
were discussed by the Board at its meeting in September 2009.
Board Changes Our Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive We continually review the composition and balance of our Board Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to to ensure that we have the right structure, skills and expertise in consider the performance of the Chairman.
place for the effective management of our multinational business.
After taking account of the results of the Chairmans formal This has been particularly important following the Altadis performance evaluation our Senior Independent Director provided acquisition in January 2008. feedback to the Chairman on a one-to-one basis.
Following approval by our Board on 24 March 2009, MrsAJ Cooper was appointed to the new role of Chief Operating Officer.
Mrs Coopers appointment to this role is a further step in ensuring We are confident in that our Board structure is aligned with our ongoing international development and by focusing on driving the operational performance the strength of our and strategic direction of the business will enhance our long-term future growth potential.
On 16 September 2009 our Board accepted Mr B F Bichs Iain Napier resignation as a consequence of his overall business commitments.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 43 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued TENURE OF DIRECTORS 8 years 5-8 years 3-4 years 1-2 years The Chairman held meetings exclusively with the Non-Executive Mr J-D Comolli, Mr R Dyrbus, Mr C F Knott and Mr I J G Napier Directors to consider, amongst other things, succession issues stand for re-election at our 2010 AGM.
and the performance of the Executive Directors.
In order to facilitate smooth Board refreshment our Nominations Informed by the evaluation and these reviews the Board and its Committee regularly reviews the composition, skill set and balance Committees are satisfied they are operating and performing of our Board, together with the length of service of each Director effectively.
There were no significant issues or training needs and thereby identifies the skills required of future directors.
identified and the process confirmed that each of our current Directors has sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to B. Remuneration contribute effectively to our Board and its Committees.
1 The level and make-up of remuneration: The key theme which emerged from this years evaluation was the introduction of the Risk Coordination Committee, which has What is our approach to remuneration and strengthened our Boards confidence in our internal controls and how do we link it to performance?
The Committee provides a more structured and formal approach to risk identification and We ensure that our remuneration policy drives our employees management which is appropriate given the nature of the to enhance our performance by focusing remuneration towards business and the current economic climate.
long-term performance and providing employees with the opportunity to participate in our bonus arrangements and share The key theme identified as requiring ongoing Board attention plans.
Our overall policy is to provide remuneration at the median is management succession planning.
In order to assist with level of our comparator group and provide executives with the Executive Director succession planning, senior managers attend opportunity to earn upper quartile total compensation on a number of strategy days, Board meetings and Board dinners.
achievement of superior business performance.
Succession planning was also discussed at Non-Executive Director meetings held during the year.
Our Remuneration Report, on pages 55 to 70, approved by our Following the 2008 Board evaluation, and to further enhance the Remuneration Committee and Board, outlines our remuneration independence of our Remuneration Committee, we added a strategy and policy and its links to our key performance indicators.
standing item to the Committees agenda allowing the members The Report details the Committees activities over the financial of the Committee to meet without the Company Chairman, any year and contains full details of Directors emoluments.
Executive Director or other manager being present.
We evaluated the performance of the Committee as part of the The Board plans to continue to conduct evaluations annually.
In Board performance evaluation process described above.
order to obtain maximum value from the evaluations and to benefit from the varying skills and focuses of alternative facilitators, we 2 Procedure: What is our formal may consider alternative facilitators, formats and approaches in procedure for developing policy on future years.
This will ensure our evaluations remain appropriate for the requirements of the Chairman and Board.
Our Remuneration Committee, which comprises solely 7 Re-election: How do we ensure planned independent Non-Executive Directors, operates under clear terms and progressive refreshing of the Board?
of reference and is responsible for developing policy on executive remuneration and overseeing our overall remuneration policy.
Full Following a rigorous selection process and recommendation details of our procedure for developing remuneration policy and by the Nominations Committee, Directors are appointed by the its links to strategy and risk management are given in our Board.
They must, however, submit themselves for election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 70. our Articles of Association require all Directors to stand for Our Chairman, Mr I J G Napier, will, at our AGM in 2010, have re-election at least every three years.
In addition, we have a policy served for nine years concurrently with two Executive Directors.
that any Non-Executive Director, including our Chairman, having To ensure we continue to comply with best practice, specifically been in post for nine years or more, or who is non-independent that the independence of the Committee is maintained, he for any reason, is subject to annual re-election.
The performance stepped down from the Remuneration Committee at its meeting of each Director is considered as part of the Board evaluation, in September 2009.
Mr Napier will only attend future meetings before recommending such election or re-election.
this evaluation the Board recommends that Dr K M Burnett, 44 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 45 INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD AND COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE RISK CO-ORDINATION INTERNAL ORGANISATIONAL CORPORATE YEAR END DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE RISK CONTROL GROUP FINANCE STRUCTURE DOCUMENTS CERTIFICATION COMMITTEE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRES SUMMARIES GROUP COMPLIANCE The Board recognises that we operate in an environment with C. Accountability and audit some unavoidable risks see pages 16 and 17 and undertakes to ensure these risks are properly understood and suitably managed, 1 Financial reporting: How do we either directly or by exercising oversight of the internal control ensure we present a clear and balanced framework detailed below.
The analysis of risk and oversight of the resulting internal control measures taken to mitigate the effects assessment of the Companys position?
of such risks are essential in enabling the Board to discharge its Our Board members recognise their responsibilities to ensure that responsibilities to safeguard shareholders investments, protect the statutory requirements to deliver balanced and understandable our assets and provide reliable financial information.
However, assessments of the Companys position are met.
The Board is given the size and complexity of the Group such systems can satisfied that these responsibilities are met by using the financial provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting systems and applying the regulations described below, supported our internal control objectives as they manage rather than by our system of internal control.
They can, therefore, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This was achieved by: Control Environment using an appropriate system of accounting records, capable The Board has established a robust control environment, the key of operating with reasonable accuracy and in compliance with features of which are: local and international financial and legal reporting requirements.
The basis used to prepare our Group financial the terms of reference of the Board, including the matters on statements is International Financial Reporting Standards which only the Board can decide, and each of the committees IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our parent it has established see page 46 : company financial statements and our Directors Remuneration establishing an appropriate organisational structure with clear, Report are prepared in accordance with applicable law and appropriate and documented delegation of authority from the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Standards: Board to the Chief Executives Committee and executive using IFRSs to ensure a true and fair view of the state of affairs management see page 46 : of the Group is given, including our profit or loss for the period: maintaining our Corporate Documents which set out risk deploying appropriate accounting policies within the framework management and behavioural standards for our operations of IFRSs and ensuring these are consistently applied: worldwide and provide a method for employees to raise matters of genuine concern see page 46 : making judgements and preparing estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Risk Co-ordination Committee and Risk Assessment Summaries detailing the risk and risk mitigation identified operating within the guidelines of all the disclosure advice by each area of the business see page 46 : provided by UK and international statute: Our year end certification processes see page 46 : disclosing the business is a going concern: Internal Control Questionnaires detailing the existing control maintaining robust assurance processes and controls over our processes within each area of the business see page 46 : financial reporting procedures, including Disclosure Committee and Board review: and Group Finance who manage our financial reporting processes see page 47 : extending these principles to half yearly reports and other reports in the public domain.
The Disclosure Committee who review all our major financial disclosures see page 47 : 2 Internal control: What does our Group Compliance who monitor and review our internal Board do to maintain a sound system controls see page 47 : and of internal control?
Remuneration linked to long-term performance to discourage excessive risk taking.
Overview Several ongoing activities, which satisfy the requirements of the Code, reassure our Board that a sound and robust system of internal control exists throughout our Group.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 45 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued Terms of Reference Risk Co-ordination Committee and Risk The Board, which operates within clearly defined terms of reference, Assessment Summaries reserves certain matters for its own consideration and decision.
It RISK CO-ORDINATION COMMITTEE has established appropriate committees which also operate within clearly defined terms of reference to oversee our control activities.
These committees include an Audit Committee, Disclosure Committee and Risk Co-ordination Committee.
Our Board and Committee processes, together with those embedded in the business, are fundamental to the effectiveness of our internal control measures Matthew Phillips and the delivery of the appropriate degree of control.
Committee Chairman Organisational Structure The Board regularly reviews the Groups organisational structure Members to seek to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility with Company Secretary Commercial Director, Sales appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of duties exist, Chairman and Marketing with personnel of the necessary calibre in place to fulfil their roles.
Finance Director, Chief Operating Officer The aim of such delegated authority is that decisions, significant Cigar Business Unit Head of Group Compliance either because of their value or impact on other parts of the Head of Group Security and Head of Group Legal Risk Management Group, are taken at an appropriate level as defined within the Director of Accounting, Human Resources Director, Boards terms of reference and our Corporate Documents.
Forecasting & Tax Sales and Marketing General Manager, Product Senior Commercial Legal Counsel Corporate Documents Development and Purchasing Acts as Secretary to the Committee The Board has established a framework of policies and procedures with which employees are expected to comply.
These cover key Overview issues such as acceptable business practices, authorisation levels, To supplement our existing risk management processes, the segregation of duties, ethical compliance matters and legislation, Group has established a Risk Co-ordination Committee RCC.
physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance and health, safety and environmental issues.
The RCC assists the Chief Executives Committee and the Audit Committee in overseeing the management of material risk to the Our framework of control documents includes our Code of Group.
The RCC comprises senior managers representative of Conduct, policy documents and supporting guidance and the Groups functions.
These documents, revised and updated during 2009, set out the corporate standards which we strive to achieve Responsibilities regardless of local regulations.
The responsibilities of the RCC include: Following a review of our framework of control documents by establishing a consistent methodology for identifying, assessing a cross-functional project team, a new corporate documents and ranking material risks: intranet site has been created in order to provide improved clarity the identification and assessment of existing measures in place on the purpose of this framework and how the various documents to manage and mitigate risks: and are connected, maintained and used by the business.
focusing and, where relevant, enhancing risk management and The next phase of this ongoing review project will be the roll-out mitigation activities, processes and procedures across the Group.
of enhanced guidance and training for our revised and updated control document framework.
This will further support our How the Risk Co-ordination Committee Met its employees regarding the behaviour that is expected of them Responsibilities During the Year and particularly in respect of their business decisions.
During the course of the year the RCC has developed a comprehensive risk register to identify, assess and monitor the In order to further improve this framework so that it continues to key risks we face and how they are mitigated and managed.
provide the appropriate control guidance for the enlarged Group, our Group Code of Conduct is being reviewed.
It is planned that This top down approach is supported by a bottom up approach the revised Code of Conduct will be rolled-out in 2010, with requiring individual markets, factories, regions and functions appropriate support and training.
It is also anticipated that across the Group to produce annual risk assessment summaries the Code of Conduct will be made available on our corporate which are compared to the Group risk register.
risk assessment summaries identify major areas of business risk, including specific local risks and how they are mitigated and There are well defined procedures for appraisal, approval, managed by controls embedded in business processes.
control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including acquisitions.
Year End Certification Our year end certification process requires each of our business The Board regularly reviews the Groups Treasury, Tax and entities to confirm compliance with our policies, fraud prevention Occupational, Health, Safety and Environmental policies.
The processes and that risk mitigation controls have operated Groups Treasury function operates within a well defined policy effectively throughout the year.
All our senior managers are and framework designed to manage the Groups financing and also required to certify that there have been no related party liquidity arrangements and to manage its exposure to, among transactions within their areas of control.
other treasury risks, interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Internal Control Questionnaires Our public interest disclosure whistleblowing policy encourages Each of our business entities is required to maintain a suite employees to raise concerns about something seriously wrong of internal control questionnaires ICQs based on templates or dangerous on a confidential basis, such that proportionate and produced by Group Compliance.
Management of each business independent investigation of such matters can be undertaken.
entity is required to complete the templates detailing the internal control processes in operation within that entity.
These ICQs are then reviewed by Group Compliance to ensure appropriate controls are in place and have operated effectively.
46 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 47 ASSURANCE PROCESS FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING VERIFICATION REVIEW EVALUATION DISCLOSURE Significant verification Disclosure Committee Report on evaluation CEO and FD EXTERNAL REPORTS work performed reviews Group to CEO, FD and evaluate material financial disclosures Audit Committee issues for disclosure The suite of ICQs comprises the most significant business Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Committee include: activities relevant to that entity for example, the control of fixed assets and confirms that appropriate controls exist and the ensuring appropriate procedures exist to confirm the accuracy, processes supporting the controls are subject to frequent checks completeness and timeliness of our public financial to ensure they are effectively implemented.
disclosures: and These ICQs form the basis of periodic reviews by Group assisting our Chief Executive and Finance Director Senior Compliance who ensure the controls are operating in practice and Officers in determining all major financial disclosures are provide the appropriate protection for the business.
accurate, complete and contain all necessary disclosures and, therefore, provide a fair and accurate view of our performance.
Group Finance Our Group Finance Department manages our financial reporting How the Disclosure Committee Met its Responsibilities processes to ensure the information which enables our Board to During the Year discharge its responsibilities, including the production of our Half The Disclosure Committee reviews all major financial disclosures.
Year and Annual Accounts, is provided on a timely basis.
It is During the year these included Trading Updates, Interim supported by a network of finance managers throughout the Management Statements, Half Year Report, Annual Report Group who have the responsibility and accountability to provide and Accounts and bond issue documentation.
information in keeping with our policies, procedures and internal To meet its responsibilities when reviewing these major financial best practices as documented internally in our Finance Manual.
disclosures the Committee members make enquiries into all Monitoring of our financial position is based on our strategic and aspects of our business which, together with their business operational plans the Plan which we use to identify specific knowledge, ensure disclosures are complete with no material targets and objectives.
The Committee reports on its reviews to our Senior Officers and where appropriate our Audit Committee.
Throughout the year we produce latest estimates to predict the likely year end position.
The latest estimates are compared with The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were reviewed during the year to ensure that they continued to the Plan and enable us to monitor and check our performance be appropriate.
and, where appropriate, challenge sections of the business if actual or anticipated performance varies from the Plan.
Group Compliance Our Group Compliance function monitors and measures the DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE mitigation of risks across the Group.
During the course of each year it undertakes targeted scheduled and ad hoc reviews throughout our businesses.
The reviews are based on our Internal Control Questionnaires.
Each review results in a report to the management of the business entity identifying any potential control weaknesses which the business entity is responsible for remediating.
The most significant potential weaknesses are also Matthew Phillips elevated to the Chief Executives Committee to monitor the Committee Chairman remediation proposed and undertaken by management of the business entity.
At the year end Group Compliance also conducts Members a review of risk assessments submitted by all markets, factories, Company Secretary Director of Accounting, regions and functions across the Group and obtains certificates Chairman Forecasting & Tax of confirmation from local management teams that appropriate Head of Group Compliance Head of Corporate Communications internal controls and processes have been operating within their Co-ordinator Deputy Company Secretary businesses throughout the year.
Head of Group Legal Acts as Secretary to the Committee To support the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the Overview effectiveness of internal controls, Group Compliance formally The Disclosure Committee comprises senior management from reports to the Audit Committee on the outcome of its ongoing across our business and meets as required to consider our major activities, including its programme of compliance reviews and any, financial disclosures.
This process ensures that the IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 47 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee remains satisfied that the Groups exposure to to consider at each meeting.
The Audit Committee met its major business risks is minimised and the levels of retained risk responsibilities by: are acceptable.
Group Compliance has a programme of reviews approving our accounting policies: covering all our business entities on an annual, three or five yearly cycle dependent on materiality and perceived risk.
monitoring and reviewing the integrity of our financial statements and any announcements or judgements they contain including The above processes, together with reports from Group our Half Year Report and Annual Report and Accounts and Compliance, enable the Board, either directly or through the recommending that these be approved by our Board: Audit Committee, to regularly review the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide receiving reports from, and questioning, members of Group internal controls.
Compliance, Group Finance and other functions.
This provides the Committee with the information required to oversee our The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, systems of internal control over financial reporting, overall evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks operated internal control policies, corporate governance procedures, throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this the system of risk management and to assess the review and Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with the requirements mitigation of associated risks: of the Code and Turnbull guidance.
reviewing the Auditors presentation of their proposed audit plan, fee proposal, and confirmation of their independence.
3 Audit Committee and Auditors: How do This, together with managements assessment of the Auditors we formally apply financial reporting and effectiveness and independence, allows the Committee to internal control principles?
establish the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of our Auditors and recommend their re-appointment AUDIT COMMITTEE to the Board: receiving and, after due consideration, approving Group Compliances proposed work plan and compliance programme.
Reports from Group Compliance are then used to monitor the performance and effectiveness of controls operating throughout the business: Mark Williamson ensuring communication of our public interest disclosure policy Chairman by receiving reports of its distribution through our non-financial reporting system: Members consideration of managements report that there were no Mr M D Williamson, CA SA Mr C F Knott, FCMA material related party matters: and Chairman Ms S E Murray Mr M H C Herlihy Mr M R Phillips consideration of the accounting treatment relating to ongoing Dr P H Jungels Company Secretary, acts as enquiries detailed on pages 43 and 44.
Secretary to the Committee Going Concern Overview In order to satisfy themselves that we have adequate resources The Audit Committee oversees our financial reporting and internal for the future, the Committee and subsequently the Board controls and provides a formal reporting link with our Auditors.
reviewed the Groups committed funding and liquidity positions and its proven ability to generate cash from trading activities.
Structure Our performance, as described in this Report, our future plans The Audit Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive and the risks we face, see pages 16 and 17, were also reviewed.
In line with the Code and our Audit Committees terms of reference, available on our website www.
com, These reviews provided the Committee with the confidence to it is a requirement that at least one Committee member is a recommend to the Board that the Group and Company, have financial expert.
Messrs M D Williamson and C F Knott are both adequate resources to meet their operational needs for the qualified accountants and, therefore, meet this requirement.
For this reason the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Finance Director, the Director of Accounting, Forecasting & Tax, the Head of Group Compliance, the Deputy Company Auditor Independence Policy Secretary and other financial managers are invited to attend each In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of meeting of the Committee.
The Head of Group Compliance meets our Auditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor formally with the Committee without any Executive Director or Independence Policy.
This policy provides clear definitions of other manager being present at each Committee meeting.
services that our Auditors can and cannot provide.
Our Auditors may only provide non-audit services where those services do not To provide a direct line of communication between our Auditors conflict with their independence, for example tax compliance and Non-Executive Directors, our Auditors attend each Committee work.
It also establishes a formal authorisation process, including meeting and have the opportunity to meet Committee members the tendering for non-audit services expected to generate fees in without any Executive Director or other manager present.
excess of 100,000 and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the allowable non-audit work that they may perform.
Our policy also Board performance evaluation process.
establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of our Auditors and for the recruitment of our How the Audit Committee Met its Responsibilities During employees by the Auditors.
the Year During the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual To ensure compliance with this policy our Audit Committee carried Report and Accounts, our Audit Committee achieved its out two reviews during the year of the remuneration received by responsibilities by working with a structured agenda of matters our Auditors for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit focused to coincide with key events of our financial reporting work.
These reviews ensure a balance of objectivity, value for cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is required money and compliance with this policy.
The outcome of these 48 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 49 reviews was not only that performance of the relevant non-audit representatives of investors when requested.
Through an external work by our Auditors was the most cost-effective way of conducting consultancy we annually perform a perception study of institutional our business but also that no conflicts of interest existed between investors views of our business.
such audit and non-audit work.
The fees for such non-audit work within the financial year were principally related to tax 2 Constructive use of the AGM: advisory work.
How does the Board effectively use the These reviews enabled the Audit Committee to confirm that AGM to engage with investors?
we continue to receive an efficient, effective and independent We took full advantage of the provisions of the Companies auditservice.
Act 2006, allowing us to communicate with our shareholders electronically.
As a result, the primary means of communication with the majority of our shareholders, who have not requested This policy is published on our website, www.
com paper copies of our documentation, is through our corporate website www.
To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual Report and Accounts and Statement of Auditors Responsibilities Notice of the AGM and lodge their proxy votes they were mailed Our statutory Auditors,  LLP, are more than 20 working days prior to the meeting.
responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes statements of the Group and on the financial statements of the either electronically or in paper format.
We also offer them the Company as presented by the Directors, on other elements ability to abstain.
of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation or regulation and for reporting their opinion to members page 73.
In addition, our AGM provides a valuable opportunity for shareholders to meet and question our Directors.
At the AGM D. Relations with shareholders our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations on our 1 performance and current business activities.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders: How does our Board To ensure compliance with the Code, separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject and all resolutions are put to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue a poll.
The number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for with shareholders takes place?
each resolution are displayed at the meeting.
The final results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on our Dialogue with our shareholders is given the highest priority.
During website following the AGM.
the year we appointed a Director of Investor Communications to help further ensure the Group meets its commitment to keep At our 2009 AGM we received votes representing approximately shareholders fully informed.
74 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
Communication with Shareholders The primary means of communication with shareholders is via Full details of our AGM to be held on Tuesday 2 February 2010, the Annual Report and Accounts and Half Year Reports and our together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed, corporate website.
In addition, we provide Interim Management are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on our website Statements and Trading Updates.
We have attended numerous www.
com and posted with this Report.
conferences, where we presented various aspects of the business to shareholders and potential shareholders.
In addition, our Executive Directors and investor relations team regularly meet with investors after results announcements, as part of conferences and on an ad hoc basis and provide a point of focus for investors who wish to raise queries or concerns.
PROACTIVELY ENGAGING SHAREHOLDERS In July 2009 a number of key investors and analysts attended a three day visit to our Moroccan operations where they had the opportunity to meet members of the senior management and Board.
Topics discussed included Group strategy, the USA cigarette business, the Africa & Middle East business and the Groups manufacturing operations.
All the presentations are available on the Groups website.
Our Chairman met with a number of key shareholders during the year and our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is also available to meet key investors.
All Directors made themselves available to meet shareholders at our AGM after the formal business of the meeting.
Together the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chief Operating Officer and Director of Investor Communications ensure the Board is fully briefed on shareholders views such that any issues or concerns are fully understood and considered by the Board.
We regularly meet with shareholder representative bodies on significant issues of interest and meet with Corporate Governance IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 49 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 50 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Report: Other Information Number Percentage The Directors submit their report together with the audited of ordinary of issued consolidated financial statements of the Group and the accounts shares millions share capital of the Company for the year to 30 September 2009.
Invesco Limited 61 6.03 Financial Results and Dividends Legal & General Investment We include a review of our operational and financial performance, Management Limited 50 4.94 current position and future developments in our Business Review Morgan Stanley Investment 42 4.17 on pages 6 to 32.
Management Limited The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.04 financial year was 663 million as shown in our consolidated Barclays PLC 37 3.66 income statement on page 74.
Note 1 to the financial statements gives an analysis of revenue and profit from operations and We have not received notification that any other person holds net assets.
three per cent or more of our shares.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: The share interests of the Directors, their families and any In s million 2009 2008 connected persons are shown on page 59.
Other than Ordinary Shares disclosed on pages 50 to 51, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for Interim paid, 21.0p per share 1 compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover.
2008: 18.2p 213 161 Proposed final, 52.0p per share Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in 2008: 42.2p 527 427 note 4 to the accounts and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Total ordinary dividends, 73.0p Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or 1 2008: 63.1p 740 588 Terminate on Change of Control The following agreements, which are summarised below, are 1 The 2008 interim dividend has been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue in June 2008. those which we consider to be significant to the Group as a whole and which contain provisions giving the other party a specific right The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 19 February 2010 to terminate them if we are subject to a change of control following to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close a takeover bid.
The associated ex dividend date will be 20 January 2010.
We paid an interim dividend on Some companies within the Group entered into a credit facilities 19 August 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close agreement the Agreement on 18 July 2007 under which certain of business on 19 June 2009. banks and financial institutions the Lenders made available to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Share Capital Finance Limited committed and uncommitted credit facilities.
The Details of our share capital are shown in note 20 to the financial Agreement provides that, unless the Lenders otherwise agree, if statements.
All shares, excluding those held in Treasury, are freely any person or group of associated persons acquires the right to transferrable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
exercise more than 50 per cent of the votes at a general meeting At our AGM on 3 February 2009 shareholder authority for the of the Company, Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial buyback of up to 106,794,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited must repay each loan utilised was obtained.
We hold 51,481,000 of our ordinary shares, by them under the Agreement and the total commitments under representing 4.82 per cent of issued share capital with an the Agreement will be immediately cancelled.
We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury shares reserve within our Some companies within the Group entered into a letter of credit profit and loss account reserve and they represent a deduction facility agreement the Letter of Credit dated 12 December 2007 from equity shareholders funds.
Treasury shares do not carry under which the Lenders made available to Imperial Tobacco any voting or dividend rights.
The Letter of Credit provides that, At 6 November 2009 we had been notified of the following unless the Lenders agree, if any person or group of associated interests in three per cent or more in our shares.
persons acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of 50 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 51 the votes at a general meeting of the Company, Imperial Tobacco No political donations were made by Imperial Tobacco Group to EU political parties, organisations or candidates 2008: Nil.
Limited must repay the letter of credit utilised by it under the Letter of Credit and the total commitments under the Letter of Credit will Creditor Payment Policy be immediately cancelled.
Our current policy concerning the payment of the majority of our trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers Code copies Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, under the 10,000,000,000 Debt Issuance Programme as noted London WC1A 1DU.
For other suppliers, our policy is to: below.
The Company acted as guarantor.
The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control provisions under which agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when the holder of each note will, subject to any earlier exercise by agreeing the terms of each transaction: the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the Issuer ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at its payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and nominal value if: a any person, persons acting in concert or on behalf of any such person s becomes interested in: i more than pay in accordance with our contractual and other 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital of the legal obligations.
Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of the This policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company: and Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and b as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a reduction international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the investment by applying local best practices.
grade rating of the notes which is not raised again: reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the change of To demonstrate our commitment to our creditor payment policy, control period specified in the final terms: or ii to the extent that during the year we have become an approved signatory of the the notes are not rated at the time of the change of control, the Prompt Payment Code sponsored by the UK Department for Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit rating of the Business Enterprise & Regulatory Reform.
notes within the change of control period as a result of the The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September 2009 change of control.
was equivalent to 44 days 2008: 46 days of trade purchases.
The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: Research and Development We recognise the importance of investing in research and 15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed development, which brings innovative improvements to the notes due 2024: Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in 15 September 2008 750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed production and marketing techniques.
notes due 2014: Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this notes due 2022: Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: 17 February 2009 1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information notes due 2016: that is information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys 24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes Auditors are unaware: and due 2019: and they have each taken all the steps that he she ought to have 24 June 2009 1,250,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware due 2012. of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Charitable and Political Donations Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
We have continued to support the communities in which we A resolution to reappoint  LLP as operate by donating 3.3 million 2008: 3.0 million to charitable Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
causes of which 1.9 million 2008: 0.2 million was in respect of the UK through the Charities Aid Foundation.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 51 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 52 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Report: Other Information continued Disclosure and Transparency Rules them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair the assets of the Company and the Group and hence taking view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the other irregularities.
consolidation taken as a whole: and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the Business Review on pages 6 to 32 includes a fair review of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom of the development and performance of the business and the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial position of the Company and the undertakings included in the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
pages 36 and 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Statement of Directors Responsibilities the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law the group: and and regulations.
the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and performance of the business and the position of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors Group, together with a description of the principal risks and have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in uncertainties that it faces.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent Employees Company financial statements in accordance with United Our employees are key to our ongoing success.
Our employment Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United policies aim to attract the very best people.
By applying universally Kingdom Accounting Standards and Applicable Law.
Under accepted standards for human rights we ensure they are treated company law the Directors must not approve the financial with fairness, dignity and respect.
This is reinforced through statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair offering equal opportunities and fair consideration to applications view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of for employment, career development and promotion, without the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these having regard to an employees gender, race, religion, age or financial statements, the Directors are required to: disability.
These policies also cover the continuation of employment and appropriate training for employees who become disabled select suitable accounting policies and then apply during their employment.
them consistently: To ensure employees can share in our success we offer make judgements and accounting estimates that are competitive pay and benefit packages linked, wherever possible, reasonable and prudent: to performance.
Employees are encouraged to build a stake in state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Company through ownership of shares, with a number of applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, employee share plans offered during the year.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained We encourage all areas of our business to keep employees in the Group and parent company financial statements informed of the financial and economic factors affecting our respectively: and performance.
We brief employee representatives on pan-European prepare the financial statements on going concern basis unless issues through a European Employee Forum and the Altadis European Works Council.
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Pension Fund Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys of which consists of five directors nominated by the Company: transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time one director chosen by employees and two by current and the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 52 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:32 Page 53 deferred pensioners.
This trustee company looks after the May 2002.
A Board Committee established in 2003 remains assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those in place to monitor the progress of the investigations and the of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
Groups responses on behalf of the Board.
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with In the course of 2005, parts of the investigations into certain of the funds rules and for no other purpose.
Further details are the individuals were terminated on terms agreed by the individuals contained in our Remuneration Report on pages 55 and 70. with the authorities and settlement was made of any duty payable Business Review as a result of certain of the activities being investigated at no cost A review of the Groups activities and future developments is to the Imperial Tobacco Group.
In 2006 and 2007, investigations included in the Business Review section on pages 6 to 32.
This against some of the other individuals were terminated for lack review fulfils the requirements of the Business Review contained of evidence.
in section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, including the financial In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were brought performance during the year on pages 8 to 11, key performance in connection with one of the investigations against 18 individuals, indicators on pages 14 and 15 and a description of the principal one of whom is a former Reemtsma employee.
In October 2008, risks and uncertainties facing the Group on pages 16 and 17. the German court agreed to open trial in relation to these charges, The purpose of the Annual Report and Accounts is to provide but no hearing date has been set.
information to the shareholders of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do In November 2006, in connection with a separate investigation, not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom charges relating to violations of the German foreign trade act this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and were brought against four other former Reemtsma employees.
any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The The German court has not yet made a decision as to whether to Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking open trial in relation to these charges.
The authorities have applied statements with respect to the operations, performance and for financial penalties to be imposed on Reemtsma in relation to Financial condition of the Company and the Imperial Tobacco these latter charges.
Such penalties could be imposed if the Group as a whole.
By their nature, these statements involve former employees who have been charged are ultimately found uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause to have committed offences.
In those circumstances, the Imperial actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and Tobacco Group would seek recovery of any losses under no reliance should be placed on them.
The forward-looking arrangements made on the acquisition of the business.
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the Office of Fair Trading date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts and As previously reported, in October 2003 the UK Office of Fair the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardTrading OFT commenced an investigation under the Competition looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts Act 1998 into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain.
should be construed as a profit forecast.
On 24 April 2008, the OFT issued a Statement of Objections The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown SO which set out the OFTs allegations against tobacco on pages 131 and 132. manufacturers, Imperial Tobacco Group and Gallaher, and 11 Insurance retailers.
The OFT alleges that these tobacco manufacturers and We have purchased and, throughout the year, maintained retailers variously engaged in one or more unlawful practices in appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers relation to retail prices for some or all of a number of tobacco liabilities.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third products in breach of Chapter I of the Competition Act 1998. party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, Following the issue of the SO, the OFT invited recipients of the in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the SO to enter into settlement discussions on a without prejudice Companies Act 2006 and the transitional arrangements in respect basis to reach early resolution agreements with the OFT.
These indemnities were in force On 11 July 2008, the OFT announced that six of the parties throughout the year and up to the date of this Report.
subject to the SO had reached early resolution agreements with Update on Ongoing Enquiries the OFT, agreeing to pay a combined figure of some 132.3 German Investigations million if all leniency and early resolution discounts are taken into Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in account.
Other than Imperial Tobacco Group, the parties which January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations have also not settled with the OFT and are therefore contesting by a number of people, including Reemtsma employees, during the OFTs allegations, are the Co-operative Group, Morrisons a period prior to its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco Group in including Safeway, Shell and Tesco.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 53 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p38 p54:Layout 1 1 12 09 15:02 Page 54 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Directors Report: Other Information continued Imperial Tobacco Groups detailed written response to the SO was We understand that a claim was filed against us and other submitted to the OFT on 15 August 2008 and Imperial Tobaccos tobacco companies in Bulgaria in March 2008 but we have not representatives made submissions to the OFT in defence of the yet been formally served with any court documents.
We further allegations at an oral hearing on 3 December 2008. understand that in December 2008, the Sofia City Court partially rejected the claim and the claimant has appealed this decision The OFT indicated in a letter dated 12 October 2009, that it to the Supreme Court of Cassation.
currently intends to notify the parties of its final decision in the investigation in the first quarter of 2010.
We have no indication In September 2009 an individual claim was brought against us of whether that will be an infringement decision, a file closure and others in Turkey.
We filed a statement of defence at a decision or some other form of decision.
If the OFT proceeds to an infringement decision, it may impose a Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007, fine.
The maximum amount of any fine, under the statutory regime we are currently facing one claim brought by an individual in the we believe that the OFT will apply, is 10 per cent of a companys United States.
A motion for summary judgment was filed by UK turnover for up to three years although the actual amount may Commonwealth Brands in October 2005 and remains pending.
By way of example, in the three years to 30 September In Australia, a claim was filed in January 2009 against Imperial 2003, Imperial Tobacco Groups aggregate net UK turnover was Tobacco Australia Limited and other tobacco companies.
The applicable turnover on which the amount of claim was discontinued in October 2009. a fine is based expressly excludes VAT and other taxes directly related to turnover, which Imperial Tobacco Group has been We understand that the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued advised would also exclude duty.
In addition, if the OFT were to legal proceedings against distributors for international tobacco make an infringement finding, it could issue orders prohibiting that companies to recover the alleged costs of providing medical care activity in the future, whilst the infringing company might face the to individuals.
No Imperial Tobacco Group company has been prospect of damages actions from third parties.
If the OFT were served with any court documents in relation to this claim.
to make an infringement decision, Imperial Tobacco Group would To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of any be able to appeal the OFTs decision to the Competition Appeal claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial Tobacco Tribunal, and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal.
or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings We are not facing any tobacco-related litigation in the UK.
In the in which damages are sought for alleged tobacco-related health Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related claims has effects.
We will continue to vigorously contest all such litigation fallen from 307 in 1997, to 11.
Ten of these claims are subject against us.
The other claim is inactive.
The dismissal By order of the Board motion in respect of one claimant was heard by the Dublin High Court in 2006.
In April 2007, the court ruled that this claim should be dismissed.
This decision has been appealed and the dismissal motions in respect of the nine other active claims have been stayed pending the appeal.
No date has been set for the appeal hearing.
Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we are currently facing two claims in Spain brought on behalf of the Matthew R Phillips Regional Government of Andalucia each arising out of the same 10 November 2009 allegations.
The first claim has been dismissed and an appeal has Imperial Tobacco Group PLC been rejected by the Spanish Supreme Court.
The Regional Registered in England and Wales No: 3236483 Government could, theoretically, make a further appeal to the Supreme Court.
The second claim was filed in May 2009 and preliminary objections were filed by Altadis and the other tobacco company defendants in September 2009.
We are not facing any claims in France.
Following our acquisition of Logista in May 2008, we are currently facing two claims in Italy.
One is at an initial stage and the other has been dismissed but appealed.
