1849 Black Sun ImpTob p36 p37:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:22 Page 36 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE IAIN NAPIER, FCMA GRAHAM BLASHILL, BSC Board of Directors Title and age Chairman, 60 Group Sales and Marketing Director, 62 Appointment Appointed Chairman in January 2007.
Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Committee Chairman of Nominations Committee.
membership Skills and Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass PLC, Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing experience Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and then of Bass activities.
With over 40 years experience with the The Board of Brewers and Bass International Brewers.
He was then Group he has held a number of senior sales and Vice President UK and Ireland for Interbrew SA until marketing positions, including Managing Director Directors is our August 2001.
He was Chief Executive of Taylor UK and Regional Director for Western Europe.
Woodrow International Housing and Development from principal decision 2001 to 2005 and was previously Director of Collins Stewart PLC.
making forum and External Non-Executive Chairman of McBride PLC and a No external Director appointments.
appointments Non-Executive Director of Molson Coors Brewing manages overall Company, John Menzies plc and William Grant & Sons Holdings Limited.
control of the GARETH DAVIS, BA ALISON COOPER, BSC, ACA business.
Our Board focuses on areas that are important to shareholders strategy, risk management, operational performance, leadership development and regulatory matters.
The Board and each committee are subject to Title and age Chief Executive, 59 Chief Operating Officer, 43 annual independent Appointment Appointed Chief Executive on demerger in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in July 2007. performance evaluation.
imperialSkills and Gareth led the successful demerger from Hanson Alison was appointed Chief Operating Officer in March tobacco.
com for experience and subsequent listings on the London and New York 2009.
She has responsibility for sales and marketing, more information.
With 37 years experience across manufacturing, the cigar business and corporate all aspects of the Company, he has played a key role development, which includes strategic planning, business in the development and execution of the Groups development, corporate affairs and is responsible for the strategy and its development into one of the worlds integration of Altadis.
Alison joined the Group in 1999 and leading multinational tobacco businesses.
Gareth will has held a number of senior roles including Director of be retiring on 12 May 2010 and will be succeeded by Finance and Planning, Regional Director Western Europe our current Chief Operating Officer, Alison Cooper.
Alison will succeed Gareth Davis as Chief Executive with effect from 13 May 2010.
External Non-Executive Director, Wolseley plc since 2003.
Non-Executive Director, Inchcape PLC since appointments Senior Independent Director, Wolseley plc since 2004.
ROBERT DYRBUS, BSC, FCA JEAN-DOMINIQUE COMOLLI Title and age Finance Director, 57 Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, 61 Appointment Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996.
Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in July 2008.
membership Skills and Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Jean-Dominique has held a number of senior positions experience Limited from November 1989 and one of the in the French Civil Service including Assistant Principal three-man Hanson team involved in the strategic Private Secretary to the Minister of the Economy reorganisation of the Group.
Since then he has and Principal Private Secretary to the Budget Minister, played an integral part in shaping the strategic before his appointment as Director General of Customs direction of the Group.
at the Budget Ministry in 1989.
In 1993 he was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive of SEITA and in 1999 appointed as Co-Chairman of the Altadis Group, a position he held until 2005, when he was appointed Chairman of Altadis.
External No external Director appointments.
Non-Executive Director of Pernod-Ricard, appointments Non-Executive Director of Casino Group, Non-Executive Director of Calyon and Non-Executive Director of Public Establishment of Opra Comique.
36 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p36 p37:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:22 Page 37 PIERRE JUNGELS, CBE HON, CHARLES KNOTT, FCMA MARK WILLIAMSON, CA SA C ENG, PHD Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 65 Non-Executive Director, 54 Non-Executive Director, 51 Appointed Non-Executive Director in August 2002.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Chairman of Audit Committee: Member of the Member of the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Pierre has held numerous senior international Charles was a Director of ICI plc from 2004 to 2007, Mark has considerable international financial and positions within the oil industry with Shell International, Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, general management experience.
He joined Petrofina SA and British Gas PLC.
He became CEO ICIs flavours and fragrances business.
He previously International Power in 2000 as Group Financial of Enterprise Oil in 1996, leading the business to fulfilled a variety of international assignments as Controller and was appointed to the Board as Chief substantial geographic and financial growth until a long-term executive at National Starch, a Unilever Financial Officer in 2003.
Previously, he was Group retirement in November 2001. company until 1997.
Currently, Chief Executive Officer Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at of Flint Group.
Simon Group, the engineering and bulk chemicals storage group.
Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Flint Group Serves on the Board of International Power plc.
of Baker Hughes Inc. Chairman of Rockhopper Holdings S.. r. l. Exploration PLC and a Non-Executive Director of Woodside Petroleum Ltd. KEN BURNETT, MA, MBA, PHD SUSAN MURRAY MATTHEW PHILLIPS, LLB Non-Executive Director, 57 Non-Executive Director, 52 General Counsel and Company Secretary, 39 Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in December 2004.
Appointed Company Secretary in October 2004.
Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Chairman Remuneration Committee.
of the Risk Co-ordination Committee, Secretary to and Member of the Chief Executives Committee: Secretary to the Board and to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Ken was President, Asia Pacific of Allied Domecq from Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods Limited Matthew joined Imperial Tobaccos legal department 1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005. from October 1998 until January 2004, latterly as in 2000 and was closely involved in the acquisitions Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Prior of Reemtsma and Altadis.
Previously he worked for management positions in the Asia Pacific region to this she was worldwide President and Chief law firms Linklaters and Burges Salmon.
with Seagram, Interbrew and International Distillers Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, part & Vintners Ltd now part of Diageo plc.
Susan is also a former Non-Executive Director of SSL International plc, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and a former council member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
Director of K-Energy Pty Limited.
Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, Wm No external Director appointments.
Morrison Supermarkets plc and Compass Group PLC.
Also fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
MICHAEL HERLIHY, MA BERGE SETRAKIAN OXON, SOLICITOR Non-Executive Director, 56 Non-Executive Director, 60 Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2008.
Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
Michael was formerly General Counsel and Head Berge is a senior partner in the law firm Dewey of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall & LeBoeuf LLP and has extensive expertise in responsibility for corporate acquisitions and international transactions.
He was a Non-Executive divestments and has extensive experience of both Director of Altadis, S. A. having been appointed in May private and public market transactions.
2004 and was a Non-Executive Director of Investcom, a telecommunications company which was acquired in 2006 by MTN, a Johannesburg-based company.
Berge is currently the Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, the largest philanthropic Armenian organisation in the world.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Director on various not-for-profit organisations.
Serves on the Board of Compass Partners Non-Executive Director of Interaudi Bank of New York, International LLP and is currently General Counsel Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, Non-Executive for Smiths Group plc.
Director of The Morganti Group, Inc. IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2009 37
