Governance Corporate governance report continued Investor relations Shareholder prole significant shareholdings As at 31 December 2009 the Company had 8,837 holdings on our As at 9 March 2010, the following notications of substantial interests register of ordinary shareholders 2008: 7,745. in the Companys issued ordinary share capital had been received pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and DTR5: The distribution of holdings by size are shown in the table below: Holding No.
These are updated on the Companys website.
Further analysis of the share register at the year end is shown in the Communication with shareholders pie charts below.
As at 31 December 2009,69% of the total share The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good register was held on behalf of investment institutions such as communication with its shareholders to ensure a mutual pension funds, mutual funds, insurance funds and funds managed understanding of the Companys objectives and performance and for private individuals.
The majority of funds are managed from the in order to understand their issues and concerns.
A comprehensive UK including 7% in Scotland.
investor relations programme has been in place for many years.
This is managed by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Share register analysis by holder and Director of Corporate Affairs who meet with existing and prospective institutional investors on a regular basis.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are also given the opportunity to meet Other institutional shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive 31% Unit trusts and Director is available to shareholders if contact through normal mutual funds channels is inappropriate.
Other meetings are held for investors and 40% analysts that cover a wide range of issues including strategy, performance and governance.
In total, during the year, members Private of the Board, and Investor Relations met over 170 existing or investor prospective shareholders or their representatives at these meetings, 6% roadshows and at conferences.
Insurance companies Pension funds During the year shareholders are kept informed of the progress of 9% 14% the Company through the Preliminary announcement, AGM, Interim announcement, Interim Management Statements and of any other significant developments through press releases.
These are made Share register analysis by geography available to the London Stock Exchange and simultaneously available on the Companys website www.
com along Rest of World with other information about the Company.
13% Presentations were held for analysts on the days of the release of Europe 5% our annual and half year results.
Recorded conference calls are also held on the release of Interim Management Statements for Israel analysts.
These presentations and calls are recorded and published 7% on the Company website so that all investors may access them.
UK 62% The Board is equally concerned with the views of private USA 13% shareholders.
The Group Company Secretary manages day to day communication with these shareholders and they are actively encouraged to give their views using the prepaid reply form issued each year with the AGM documentation.
This is particularly useful for shareholders unable to attend the AGM in person or engage Source: JP Morgan Cazenove with the Directors and shareholders are invited to raise any matters 62 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SecT tiw oo n Two G Go ov five errn na an nc ce e of interest to them.
At the meeting the Company complies with the represents an average of 0.54% of the Companys shares traded each Code as it relates to voting, the separation of resolutions and the day 2008: 0.49% adjusted for the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
In line with the Code, details Share price by volume during 2009 of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are made available on the Companys website following the meeting.
Volume Price p 900,000 35 The Board is provided with regular updates on the views and issues 800,000 raised by the Companys investors.
During the year, the Board 30 received external presentations from advisors, including the 700,000 25 Companys brokers, on shareholder and market perception of the 600,000 Companys strategy.
20 500,000 Analyst coverage 400,000 15 We are aware of 12 analysts who have regularly published notes 300,000 10 on Inchcape during 2009 and we provide names of these analysts, 200,000 their rms and contact details on our website.
5 100,000 Total shareholder return TSR Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec The following graph illustrates the Groups TSR over a five year 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09 period, relative to the performance of the total return index of the FTSE mid-250 group of companies excluding investment trusts.
TSR Source: Datastream is essentially share price growth plus re-invested dividends.
The FTSE Share consolidation mid-250 has been chosen as the most suitable comparator group On 10 March 2010, we proposed a 1 for 10 share consolidation to as it is the general market index in which the Company appears.
lessen the volitility the current level of share price generates and to decrease the cost of dealing in shares.
This will reduce the shares in Historical TSR performance issue from approximately 4.6bn with a nominal value of 1.0p to 200 approximately 460m shares with a nominal value of 10.0p.
The share consolidation is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2010.
150 100 Electronic communications Inchcape is committed to reducing its impact on the 50 environment and the Company would like to encourage shareholders to receive communications electronically reducing printing and paper usage.
0 Shareholders can register for email alerts at Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 www.
com email Inchcape FTSE mid 250 excluding investment trust However investors are able to receive communications in Source: Datastream the form most appropriate to their needs and are entitled Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 Holding over five years to change the way in which they receive shareholder FTSE 250 excluding investment companies comparison based on communications at any time.
Dealing in Inchcape shares The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Prices are reported daily in the Financial Times and on our website.
For further information please call Computershare Investor Services on 44 0 870 707 1076.
The share price by volume during 2009 graph shows the steady growth in the share price since the Rights Issue closing at 29.85p as at 31 December 2009.
The Companys shares trade within the FTSE 250 index and at the year end was ranked 136 in the FTSE 350 index by market capitalisation 2008: 342.
The Companys market capitalisation at 31 December 2009 was 1,374.3m, an increase of over eight times its market capitalisation of 169.2m at 31 December 2008.
The average number of shares traded on the London Stock Exchange daily was 24.7m 2008: 22.5m.
com 63 Governance Corporate governance report continued Committee reviewed its way of working and the balance of focus on financial and non-financial risks and agreed that from 2010, the Audit Committee will meet four times per year in order to give the Committee more time to consider the key activities delegated to it.
No one other than the Audit Committee Chairman and its members are entitled to attend the meetings however, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit and Risk Director and the external auditors attend by invitation.
The Audit Committee may take external legal, accounting or other advice at the Companys expense when it believes it necessary to do so.
Other than discussions with the Companys external auditors, none was taken during 2009.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are financial reporting: internal control and risk management systems: internal Graham Pimlott audit and external audit.
The Audit Committee discharged all its Audit Committee responsibilities, as set out in its Terms of Reference, during the year.
Chairman The full Terms of Reference can be found at www.
Activities During 2009, the principal activities of the Audit Committee included the following: review and approval of interim and full year results and any other formal announcement relating to financial performance: review of the internal audit plan and the results of the internal 2009 highlights auditorswork, including monitoring managements responsiveness to findings and recommendations: From 2010, increase the number of scheduled Audit Committee meetings to allow a balanced focus on financial review of the Companys internal financial controls and the and non-financial risks and controls.
internal control and risk management system: approval of the terms of engagement with the external auditor at 2010 objectives the start of each audit and the scope of the audit to be provided: Continued focus on compliance and risk management review of the audit plan with the external auditor at the planning and reporting stages: Members From To effectiveness of the internal and external audit function: Graham Pimlott Chairman 14 May 2009 To date whistleblowing provisions: Will Samuel 26 January 2005 To date relevant disclosures in this Report: and Michael Wemms 29 January 2004 To date review of its Terms of Reference.
David Scotland 24 February 2005 To date As part of the approval process for the appointment of the external Alison Cooper 1 July 2009 To date auditor, the Committee is responsible for monitoring the objectivity, independence and performance of the external auditor.
The Nigel Northridge 5 March 2010 To date Committee is satisfied that the external auditor continues to be effective.
The Committee recommends the Board propose a Audit Committee Report resolution to re-appoint the auditors at the AGM.
Governance  LLP have been the Companys auditors for The Audit Committee is chaired by Graham Pimlott who was a over ten years.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship member of the Auditing Practices Board until March 2010.
Graham with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their took over the role as Chairman from Ken Hanna on 14 May 2009.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to the members are Non-Executive Directors.
Will Samuel is a chartered require the rm to tender for the audit work.
The external auditors are accountant and the Board has determined that Will has recent and required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group audit relevant financial experience.
In accordance with best practice guidelines the The Audit Committee met three times during 2009, to coincide with current audit partner will step down during 2010 and his the key dates in the Companys financial calendar.
Attendance is responsibilities will be transferred to another partner.
There are no shown on page 58.
In addition to the scheduled meetings the Audit contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of Committee meets with the external auditors twice a year.
64 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SecT tiw oo n Two G Go ov five errn na an nc ce e In addition to the above activities, the Audit Committee reviewed its policy regarding the scope and extent of any non audit services provided to it by its auditors.
The purpose of the policy is to ensure that the external auditors remain objective and independent.
A procedure is in place which must be complied with prior to the external auditors being engaged in non audit work which is approved by the Audit Committee.
There is a clear division of responsibility between audit and non audit staff and restrictions are imposed on permitted areas of non audit work.
The Company has acted in compliance with this policy during 2009.
The Company has a guideline that the auditors should not normally earn more for non audit services than for audit services.
In 2009, the audit fees were just less than the aggregate of the fees earned by the auditors for other work.
During the year the auditors were heavily engaged in work relating to the Rights Issue which Ken Hanna closely related to their function as auditors.
Also, the auditors Nominations Committee advised on a number of tax matters which are expressly permitted under the policy.
A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non Chairman audit services is provided in note 3d on page 104.
The Company does not consider that this work, or the fees earned, have compromised the independence of the auditors.
The Companys whistleblowing policy is communicated to employees on a global basis.
The policy enables employees to raise concerns with the Disclosure Response Team in cases where conduct may be deemed to be contrary to the Companys values.
2009 highlights Nominations Committee Report Change of Chairman Governance The Nominations Committee is chaired by Ken Hanna who is New appointments to the Board Chairman of the Board of Directors.
It comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
2010 objectives Only members of the Nominations Committee have the right to attend Composition of the Board Committee meetings.
However, other individuals such as the Group New corporate responsibility committee Human Resources Director and external advisors may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
Members From To The Nominations Committee formally met three times during 2009.
Attendance of these meetings is shown on page 58.
Ken Hanna Chairman 14 May 2009 To date The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee include the Will Samuel 1 April 2005 To date balance of Board membership: leadership needs of the Group Michael Wemms 29 July 2004 To date and succession planning.
The Nominations Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its Terms of Reference David Scotland 29 November 2005 To date during the year.
The full Terms of Reference can be found at www.
Andr Lacroix 1 January 2006 To date Activities The principal activities during 2009 were: Group in the future and to enhance the balance of the Board.
An external recruitment company identied Alison Cooper and Nigel review of the size and composition of the Board: Northridge as suitable candidates and following a rigorous interview succession planning for the Board and key management: process they were appointed on 1 July as recommended by the Nominations Committee.
Each received a formal letter of appointment appointments of Non-Executive Directors: and setting out clearly what is expected in terms of time commitment, election and re-election of Directors.
committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
As set out in last years Annual Report, Peter Johnson retired at the John McConnell was promoted to Group Finance Director from Chief 2009 AGM and was succeeded by Ken Hanna as Chairman of the Executive of Inchcape Australasia with effect from 1 October 2009.
Group and the Nominations Committee.
Graham Pimlott took over The Nominations Committee made recommendations for the Kens role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
election and re-election, by shareholders, of Directors retiring at the During 2009, the Nominations Committee reviewed the Boards 2010 AGM.
No Director was present when his or her election or recomposition and the types of skills it considered would benefit the election was considered.
In particular, the Nominations Committee www.
com 65 Governance Corporate governance report continued Remuneration Committee Report Governance Michael Wemms is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Throughout the year, the Committee was comprised wholly of independent Non-Executive Directors and continues to be so.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Company Secretary and Group Human Resources Director advise the Remuneration Committee internally and attend meetings upon invitation.
No Director or Executive is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
During 2009 the Remuneration Committee held three scheduled meetings.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 58.
To ensure that the Remuneration Committee receives independent Michael Wemms advice, Towers Watson was appointed by the Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee as its external advisor.
Towers Watson also provides advice to the Board on Non-Executive Directorsfees and to the Chairman Group in connection with IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
Towers Watson has no other connection with the Company other than as remuneration consultants.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include setting the remuneration policy: the remuneration of the Chairman: sharebased incentive schemes and share performance targets.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied it discharged its responsibilities 2009 highlights as set out in its Terms of Reference during the year.
The full Terms of Review of remuneration policy during the challenging Reference can be found at environment www.
Shareholder consultation Activities The Remuneration Committee undertakes an annual review of the 2010 objectives remuneration policy to ensure that it remains relevant and competitive.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee reviews: Remuneration strategy for 2010 policy for all employee share schemes: Review of remuneration policy for 2011 onwards policy for long term incentive plans including level of individual grants and performance conditions: Members From To award of bonuses: Michael Wemms Chairman 13 May 2004 To date policy and scope of pension arrangements for Executive Directors: Will Samuel 26 January 2005 To date Executive Directorsand senior executivessalaries: Ken Hanna 27 September 2001 To date Chairmans fees and terms and conditions of employment: and David Scotland 24 February 2005 To date Terms of Reference.
Nigel Northridge 1 July 2009 To date During 2009 the Remuneration Committee carried out a consultation with its major shareholders in respect of the proposed reviewed the continued service of any Non-Executive Director who changes to the remuneration policy.
The Committee felt it has served six or more years to ensure that Board members appropriate to discuss its plans due to the difficult trading conditions.
continue to possess the skills deemed appropriate for the needs of Full details can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Company and its stakeholders.
The Nominations Committee annually reviews the re-election of any Board member who has The Remuneration Committee prepares the Directors Remuneration served for longer than nine years on the Board.
Ken Hanna had Report on behalf of the Board of Directors.
The report is split into completed eight years service as a Non-Executive Director prior to unaudited and audited sections and can be found on pages 68-74. his appointment as Chairman on 14 May 2009.
There were no other Directors with more than six years service during 2009.
66 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SecT tiw oo n Two G Go ov five errn na an nc ce e Chairmans remuneration The Chairmans remuneration was determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking advice from Towers Watson on best practice and competitive levels and, taking into account responsibilities and time commitment.
Life assurance is provided under the Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme but the appointment is not pensionable, nor is the Chairman eligible for pension scheme membership or participation in the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive plan.
Non-Executive  The remuneration for Non-Executive Directors consists of fees for services in connection with Board and Committee meetings.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board, within the restrictions contained in the Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors fees are reviewed annually, taking advice from Towers Watson on best practice and competitive levels.
The levels of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors reect the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
The Non-Executive Directors are not involved in deciding their fees.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership or participation in the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
Details of the fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown on page 71.
Policy on external appointments The Company recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that this additional experience is likely to benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are generally allowed to accept one Non-Executive appointment as long as it is not likely to lead to conicts of interest or undue time commitments.
The Group Chief Executive is permitted to hold two such appointments.
The policy in respect of Executive Directors commitments is kept under review by the Nominations Committee.
Any fees received for these duties may be retained by the Executive Director.
Andr Lacroix is a Non-Executive Chairman of Good Restaurants AG for which he did not receive a fee and a Non-Executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser for which he received a fee of 85,000. www.
