Governance Corporate governance report Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder I succeeded Peter Johnson as Chairman of Inchcape after the AGM on 14 May 2009.
During his tenure as Chairman, Peter championed good governance practices and a continued focus on the highest governance standards remains high on my agenda.
We, as a Board, rmly believe these are vital to the effective operation and growth of our Company.
High standards of governance help strengthen management and underpin the decisions made by the Board and the Executive Committee to help us to lead the Group forward to deliver on our objectives and performance goals whilst having regard to the interests of our stakeholders.
Making governance integral to our business enables the Board to be focused on strategy and enables Ken Hanna the Executive Committee to manage the operations effectively.
Chairman During 2009 we remained committed to ensuring the highest standards of Board performance and delivery and to this end have again performed an evaluation of the Board.
Our particular focus has been on ensuring that the renements we have made to our Board processes are working effectively and that the members of the Board that joined us in 2009, as well as the existing members, have full access to our business along with all relevant information and training to allow them to discharge their duties.
Our evaluation has reviewed how the changes made have facilitated discussion of the key issues as well as considering the alignment to best corporate governance practices following recommendations made by various reports including the Walker Report and the Financial Reporting Council.
Our corporate governance report explains how the Board and its Committees operate within a framework of effective controls and how the Directors have discharged their duties to our Company.
Yours sincerely Ken Hanna Chairman 2009 highlights Successful Rights Issue Governance framework In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the principles of Board composition review good governance, the Board is collectively responsible for promoting Successful roll out of the Group Subsidiary the success of the Company and for providing strong leadership Governance Manual within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Group delivers shareholder value in 2010 objectives the long term and recognises that good governance will facilitate the achievement of sustainable growth.
Share consolidation The Board has established good governance practices by ensuring Continued focus on corporate responsibility that the Board is well balanced and has structured and effective Effective implementation of applicable Committees to assist with the running of the Company.
recommendations from key governance reviews The following sections explain how the Company has complied Focus on Board balance, development and with the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code performance evaluation Code.
It is the Boards view that it has been fully compliant with the Code throughout the year.
com aboutus corporategovernance 56 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SecT tiw oo n Two G Go ov five errn na an nc ce e Inchcape plc Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Corporate Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Financial Reporting Remuneration policy Group strategy Balance of the Board Oversight of the Group Risk Management Incentive plans Operational Leadership of the Group CR programme Internal Control Performance targets Management Succession planning Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Risk Group Risk oversight Oversight of Group Management Capital Business Risk Assessment capital expenditure Strategy Group Committee Control processes A statement of the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Under Articles 82 and 83 the Board may authorise any conicts of consolidated Financial statements and a statement regarding the interest.
If a Director becomes aware of a conict he she must notify status of the Company as a going concern is on page 76. the Board in writing at the next Board meeting.
A register of conicts is kept by the Group Company Secretary.
It is the duty of the The Board of Directors Directors to inform the Board of any updates to their conicts.
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, six Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
No such conicts have been reported during 2009.
The Chairman, Ken Hanna, is responsible for the leadership of Board operation the Board and the balance of its membership.
The Group Chief The Board is responsible for setting the strategic agenda for Executive, Andr Lacroix, is responsible for leading and managing the Company and for ensuring that its values and standards the business with support from the Executive Committee.
are applied throughout the Groups businesses.
Day to day management is delegated to the Executive Committee, however Will Samuel is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent matters which require Board approval include: Non-Executive Director.
The Committee Chairmen are: budget: Michael Wemms Remuneration Committee: capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: Graham Pimlott Audit Committee: group policies: Ken Hanna Nominations Committee: financial results: David Scotland Corporate Responsibility Committee.
board and Company Secretary appointments: The biographical details of the Directors including details of other directorships held and the Executive Committee can be corporate and capital structure: found on pages 52-55. internal controls and risk management.
Articles of Association The full schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found Article 74 requires that every Director will seek re-election to the on the Companys website at Board at least every three years, subject to election by shareholders www.
Articles 70 to 72 provide for the appointment and removal of Directors by the Board.
All Directors are subject to Specic responsibilities are delegated to the Boards Committees.
The reports for the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to the removal of Directors.
Committees are on pages 64-67. www.
com 57 Governance Corporate governance report continued Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Number of meetings Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Raymond Chien 7 3 Alison Cooper 7 3 3 2 Karen Guerra 7 2 3 2 Ken Hanna 77333333 Peter Johnson 7 4 3 1 Nigel Northridge 7 2 3 0 Andr Lacroix 7 7 3 3 John McConnell 7 2 Graham Pimlott 7 7 3 3 Barbara Richmond 7 4 Will Samuel 77333333 David Scotland 77333333 Michael Wemms 77333333 Raymond Chien, Karen Guerra and Peter Johnson left on 14 May 2009.
Barbara Richmond left on 30 June 2009.
Alison Cooper and Nigel Northridge joined on 1 July 2009.
John McConnell joined on 1 October 2009.
Other key Committees include the Risk Management Strategy in contrast with previous years and in recognition of the difficult Group which reports ultimately into the Audit Committee and the economic climate, the Board did not hold an overseas Board Executive Committee, Group Capital Committee and Corporate meeting but instead attended a meeting at BMW Croydon, a UK Responsibility Committee which report to the Board of Directors.
It is intended that the Board will meet at our operations The Corporate Responsibility Report can be found of pages 40-49. in Belgium in 2010.
Board meetings and attendance Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, he she is advised in The Board held seven scheduled meetings during 2009.
In addition advance of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to the Board attended a Strategy Review day where the Board and make his her views known to the Chairman, Committee Chairman members of the Executive Committee agreed the strategic agenda or Group Company Secretary before the meeting.
Nigel Northridge for the coming years.
The Strategy Review day gives the Nonwas unable to attend one meeting due to commitments that Executive Directors and the Executive Committee members an existed before he became a Non-Executive Director.
opportunity to engage in detailed discussions regarding the If any Director were to have any concerns regarding the running operations of the business and establish the framework for the of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns would be future strategic direction of the Group.
The Board also met for ad hoc meetings to deal with specic issues.
recorded in the Board minutes.
If a Director were to resign over an unresolved issue, the Chairman would bring the issue to the attention Board meetings were held at retail centres and operations within of the Board.
No such issues or concerns arose during the year.
the Group which provides valuable additional insight into the business for Non-Executive Directors and gives the Board an The Non-Executive Directors also met during the year without the opportunity to meet colleagues around the world.
Directorsindustry background experience Balance of Executive Non-Executive Directors Chairman 11% Retail Executive 44% Directors 22% Financial 56% Non-Executive Directors 67% 58 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SecT tiw oo n Two G Go ov five errn na an nc ce e Board balance and independence They met with the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration All the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent Committees to acquire an understanding of the Boards processes under the criteria set out in rule A.
and they visited UK retail centres with the Chief Executive officer of the UK retail business to provide an insight into the Groups Ken Hanna became Chairman after the AGM on 14 May 2009. operational business.
They also spent time with members of the Ken was considered independent upon appointment under rule Executive Committee, the Director of Corporate Affairs, Group Head A.
of Tax and the Group Financial Controller to gain further knowledge Will Samuel and Michael Wemms are both Non-Executive Directors of how the Company operates.
Externally they met with the of Galiform PLC.
Ken Hanna and Graham Pimlott are both NonCompanys brokers to enable them to gain an understanding Executive Directors of Tesco PLC or its subsidiaries.
Having regard of the Groups position within the market place.
to all the circumstances, including the independence they have The broad scope of the induction plan is designed to give the new demonstrated as Non-Executive Directors of the Company and the Non-Executive Directors an understanding of the business and the fact that there are no cross-shareholdings or business relationships arena in which it operates.
between either Galiform PLC or Tesco PLC and the Company, the Board is satisfied and has determined that they are independent Performance evaluation in respect of these roles additionally.
Process It is important to the Company to maintain a strong skills base across the Board in order to bring a depth of knowledge and Led by the Chairman and supported by the Group Company experience to the matters under discussion.
Alison Cooper and Secretary, a performance evaluation questionnaire was used, Nigel Northridge were both appointed during the year.
They bring covering the effectiveness of the Board, each Committees considerable retail, operational and international experience adding performance against objectives, preparation for and to and enhancing the balance of the Board.
John McConnell performance at meetings and corporate governance matters.
joined as Group Finance Director transferring from our business An internal review was considered most appropriate in 2009 to in Australia.
Johns in depth knowledge of our business as well as allow changes in composition and operation to bed down.
technical knowledge gives him a particular insight into strategic issues.
All the Directors bring an individual judgement to bear on Focus issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Further details on new appointments to the Board can be found The change in Chairman and composition of the Board in 2009 provided an opportunity to review how the Board in the Nominations Committee report on page 65-66. processes supported the effective discharge by the Board Information, training and development of its duties.
In conjunction with this review, we have: re-issued the schedule of Board meetings, with six to eight Information supplied meetings per year held over two successive days: Each Director receives information on the Groups operating increased the number of scheduled Audit Committee businesses: regulatory and legislative environment: and meetings.
Identification of actions Additional support Following the evaluation, the Board members concluded The Directors have access to external advisors for additional that appropriate actions have been identied to address information and or training as appropriate.
This ensures that the areas that could be improved and that, overall the Board Directorsskills, knowledge and familiarity are kept up to date.
and Committees continued to perform effectively.
Board meetings Performance evaluation Using the information supplied the Directors are able to The Chairman evaluates the performance of the Non-Executive participate in informed and valuable discussions during the Directors and met each of them individually to discuss Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors met without the presence of the Chairman to evaluate his performance.
Responsibility Conclusion The Group Company Secretary is responsible for the ow of information to Non-Executive Directors.
The receipt of quality, Following the performance evaluation process, the Chairman timely and relevant information is important to the effective has confirmed that the Non-Executive Directors standing for decision making of the Board.
election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board will continue Induction programme for new Non-Executive Directors to review performance annually.
In addition to the annual In order to understand the Groups operations both new Nonreview process the Board receives regular updates on best Executive Directors participated in a detailed induction programme.
practice and will, as appropriate, adopt changes in practice during the course of the year.
com 59 Governance Corporate governance report continued Internal control framework Board level Control environment Corporate governance Group Information and Performance management communications management process level Strategy process Business planning Management reporting Performance reviews Individual discussions Investment process Operations level Follow-up Business and e. g. business control, and Corporate internal and external audit support processes functions Values and code of conduct Internal controls Audit Committee.
The Committee reports its findings to the Board The Board is responsible for the establishment and review of the as a whole so that a view can be taken.
Companys internal operational and compliance control systems.
Risk identication, assessment and management The internal control systems are designed to ensure: To assist the Board and the Audit Committee in managing internal effective and efficient operations: controls the Group operates a Risk Management Strategy Group RMSG which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Membership quality of internal and external reporting: and throughout the year comprised the Group Finance Director, the internal control and compliance with appropriate laws General Counsel and Group Company Secretary, the Group and regulations.
Corporate Affairs Director and the Director of Audit and Risk.
The implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility The RMSG meets six times per year, aligned with the Audit Committee of the Executive Committee.
schedule to review risk management and control processes.
Its review covers matters such as responses to significant risks that In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code and the Turnbull have been identied, output from monitoring processes including guidance the Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit reports and changes to be made to the internal Companys internal control systems and reports to shareholders.
It also follows up on areas that require improvement The Board has ensured that a process for managing significant and reports back to the Audit Committee.
risk has been in place during the year.
The process is designed to Risk management programme manage rather than eliminate risk in general, not just risk of not The Company has relaunched its risk management programme meeting objectives.
In establishing and reviewing the system of known as Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM.
This is a programme internal control the Directors have regard to the nature and extent bringing together the various risk management projects and of relevant risks: the likelihood of loss being incurred and the costs initiatives under one systematic and collective approach.
iPOM aims to maximise opportunities to improve performance The system can only provide a reasonable but not absolute and meet strategic goals with an integrated, simple approach assurance against any material mis-statement or loss and cannot to risk management.
Through iPOM we will constantly seek to instill eliminate business risk.
the right behaviours across the organisation and to ensure that The Board has delegated the responsibility of monitoring the compliance continues to be embedded within the Groups way effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems to the of operating.
60 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 SecT tiw oo n Two G Go ov five errn na an nc ce e Control procedures and monitoring systems iPOM 7 Key steps A Group Risk Register, which identies the key risks, the impact should they occur and actions being taken to manage these risks at the desired level, is produced for each business unit.
In addition, actions Step Purpose to be taken in the event that such risks crystallise and proposed improvements to the way they are managed are also included.
1 Written What are the rules?
The Group Risk Register is approved by the RMSG and the Executive compliance Committee and discussed by the Audit Committee at its meetings.
standards and procedures The Group also monitors its control procedures in the following key areas: Financial reporting 2 Oversight Who is in charge?
responsibilities There is a comprehensive system with an annual budget approved assigned to by Directors.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and reported appropriate against budget and, where appropriate, revised forecasts are personnel presented at Board meetings.
Investment appraisal 3 Appropriate The Group has clearly dened policies for capital expenditure.
delegation These include annual budgets and detailed appraisal and of authority review procedures.
4 Training and What employee education is in place Internal Audit education regarding the rules and standards?
The adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems are monitored by the Internal Audit team who report to the 5 Routine How do we know the rules are Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Internal Audit also works closely monitoring, being followed?
with management and the external auditors.
reporting Business Unit Controls and auditing Each business in the Group is required to identify its key risks and the control procedures in place to mitigate those risks.
This evaluation 6 Enforcement What happens if the rules and takes place twice a year as part of the preparation and update of and discipline standards are not being followed?
During 2009, the Managing Director and Finance Director of each 7 Response business unit in the Group signed a compliance certicate to and prevention confirm: the accuracy and completeness of the accounts submitted for consolidation: Examples of key projects for 2009, including key initiatives that were either introduced or reinforced were: compliance with local laws and regulations: compliance certicates signed by all Managing Directors and the absence of fraud: Finance Directors as part of the year end process conrming the absence of conicted directorships: and that all key controls had been complied with and there were no outstanding issues to be resolved.
the Group Risk Register process continued, with a bottom up top down approach used to identify the key Group and market risks and to look at the impact of mitigating actions that had been implemented.
The Business Risk Assessment forms part of the scheduled Annual Operating Plan process and monthly market review meetings as well as being a key agenda item for review at the RMSG and Audit Committee meetings: a Group Subsidiary Governance Manual was rolled out to all markets in 2009.
This sets out the policies that all operations within the Group are required to comply with, covering a number of areas including tax, treasury, finance, legal, company secretariat and HR.
The RMSG is supported by market risk committees that share the common risk agenda, and which report to the RMSG on a regular basis.
