the Year in Review coRPoRate goveRnance statement The Company is committed to the principles of corporate approving the Groups annual operating and capital governance contained in the Combined Code on expenditure budgets: Corporate Governance the Code that was issued in 2008 reviewing operational and financial performance: by the Financial Reporting Council for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Throughout the year ended approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital 31 December 2009 the Company was in compliance with projects: all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
reviewing the Groups systems of internal control Together this report and the Directors Remuneration and risk management: Report explain how the Company has applied the principles and supporting principles of Good Governance reviewing the environmental, health and safety set out in Section 1 of the Code.
policies of the Group: On 30 June 2009, Informa plc Informa, a public approving appointments to, and removals from, the company limited by shares, incorporated in Jersey with Board and of the Company Secretary: number 102786 and domiciled in Switzerland became the new parent company for the Informa Group of approving policies relating to Directors companies, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under remuneration: and Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006.
As a company listed reviewing the dividend policy and determining the on the London Stock Exchange, Informa is subject to amounts of dividends.
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and voluntarily complies with the provisions of the Combined The Board has delegated the following activities to the Code and relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
Executive Directors: Although Informa is not subject to the UK Companies the development and recommendation of strategic Act, the Board considers it appropriate to provide plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the shareholder safeguards which are similar to those that longer-term objectives and priorities established by apply to a UK registered company and are consistent with the Board: the relevant provisions of the UK Companies Act.
implementation of the strategies and policies of the The Board members of Informa are noted in the Directors Group as determined by the Board: Report on page 28. monitoring of the operating and financial results the Board against plans and budgets: The Informa Group of companies the Group is monitoring the performance of acquisitions and controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards investments against plans and objectives: main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial human resources: and and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
developing and implementing risk management systems.
An updated schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval, which is reviewed and updated the Roles of the chairman, chief executive annually, was adopted by the Board on 24 June 2009 prior and senior Independent Director to the Scheme becoming effective on 30 June 2009.
The specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Senior approving the Groups long-term objectives and Independent Director comply with the guidance from the commercial strategy: UK Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and as such are clearly defined.
38 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Derek Mapp was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to on 17 March 2008.
As Chairman, he leads the Board obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups and is responsible for setting its agenda and ensuring expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in its effectiveness.
He is also responsible for ensuring order to carry out their responsibilities.
The Directors that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear contracts are available for inspection at the registered information and for effective communication with office during normal business hours and will be available shareholders.
He facilitates the effective contribution for inspection at the AGM.
of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations Professional Development between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
He also acts on the results of the Board performance On appointment the Directors receive relevant evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing information about the Group, the role of the Board and the the weaknesses of the Board, and, where appropriate, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference proposes new members be appointed to the Board or and membership of the principal Board Committees and seeking the resignation of Directors.
the powers delegated to those Committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures and Peter Rigby was re-appointed as Chief Executive on the latest financial information about the Group.
This is 17 March 2008 and has the responsibility of running supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with the Company.
As Chief Executive, he has direct charge key senior executives.
On appointment the Directors are of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to also advised of their legal and other duties and obligations the Board for its operational and financial performance.
as a Director of a listed company.
He is also primarily responsible for implementation of the Companys strategy including ensuring the Throughout their period in office, the Directors are achievement of the Groups budgets and optimising the continually updated on the Groups business and the Groups resources.
He also has primary responsibility environment in which it operates, by written briefings and for managing the Groups risk profile, identifying by meetings with senior executives, who are invited to and executing new business opportunities and for attend and present at Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on any changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and those which Dr Pamela Kirby was appointed as Senior Independent affect themselves as Directors and are able to obtain training, Director on 17 March 2008 and is available to meet at the Groups expense, to ensure they are kept up-to-date shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is on relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Performance evaluation Directors and Directors Independence The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance As at 31 December 2009 the Board comprised four of the Board, its principal committees and individual independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is Directors.
On appointment the Directors are made aware the Chairman, and two Executive Directors all of whom that their performance will be subject to evaluation.
have served throughout the 2009 financial year.
In addition, from 1 January to 8 May 2009 it included For 2009 the evaluation was performed by the Chairman Sean Watson as a fifth Non-Executive Director.
who conducted a series of focused interviews with each member of the Board in his or her capacity as a Director and, The Board includes independent Non-Executive where applicable, as a member or Chairman of a principal Directors who constructively challenge and help develop committee.
The findings and recommendations of the proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent review were presented to the Board as a whole, with a view judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards to implementing any recommendations made to improve deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient the overall effectiveness of the Board during 2010.
The calibre and number that their views carry significant Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent weight in the Boards decision-making process.
The Director, also met without the Chairman present to conduct Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
independent in character and judgement.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 39 the Year in Review coRPoRate goveRnance statement continued all the Directors.
The number of proxy votes for, against or Re-election withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at the All of the Companys Directors are subject to annual reAGM and a separate resolution is proposed for each item.
The Board is satisfied, following The Groups corporate website at www.
com formal evaluation, that each Director continues to be contains a wide range of information of interest to effective and to demonstrate commitment to his her role.
both institutional and private investors, including any the company secretary announcements made by the Company to the FSA as well as video recordings of the interim and annual The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the presentations made to analysts.
Board through the Chairman on all governance matters and all Directors have access to the advice and services of going concern Basis the Company Secretary.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors Information likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors Chief Executives Review on pages 14 to 18. in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any As set out on pages 31 to 36 a number of risk factors information specifically requested by the Directors from and uncertainties affect the Groups results and financial time to time.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly position.
In particular the current economic climate management reports from the Chief Executive and the creates uncertainties over the level of demand for the Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the Groups Groups products and services.
The Group adopts an and managements performance against agreed objectives.
extensive budgeting process in forecasting its trading results and cash flows and updates these forecasts to Relations with shareholders reflect current trading on a regular basis.
The Company is committed to maintaining good The Groups net debt and banking covenants are communications with investors.
Each of Derek Mapp as discussed in the Financial Review on pages 19 to 23 and Chairman and Dr Pamela Kirby as Senior Independent the exposure to liquidity risk is discussed in Note 24 to Director provides the Board with feedback on any issues the consolidated financial statements.
raised with them by shareholders.
The Group sensitises its projections to reflect reasonably The Executive Directors have frequent discussions with possible changes in trading performance and cash institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting conversions, taking into account its substantial deferred the Groups performance.
These include meetings with revenues 292m at 31 December 2009.
These forecasts and the Groups largest institutional shareholders on an projections for the period up to 30 June 2011, show that the individual basis following the announcement of the Group is expected to be able to operate within the level of its Groups interim and annual results.
In addition, the Group current facility and meet its covenant requirements.
responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
Following meetings held After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable with shareholders after the interim and annual results expectation that the Company and the Group have announcements, the Board is provided with feedback adequate resources to continue in operational existence from the Executive Directors, the Groups brokers and for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to its public relations advisers on investor perceptions.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual The Companys brokers reports on the Group are also report and financial statements.
circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports of Procedures to Deal with Directors significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
conflicts of Interest The AGM, for which at least 20 working days notice The Companys Articles, which were adopted by is given and where shareholders are invited to ask shareholders on 2 June 2009, include provisions questions during the meeting and are able to meet with covering Directors conflicts of interest.
the Directors after the meeting, is normally attended by 40 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 The Articles allow the Board to authorise any matter that The Boards monitoring is based principally on reviewing would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty to reports from management to consider whether avoid conflicts of interest.
The Company has procedures in significant risks have been identified, evaluated, place to deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of managed and controlled and whether any significant interest.
As part of this process, the Board will endeavour to: weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: In addition, the Board performs a formal risk assessment, which is embedded through the annual consider the conflict situation in conjunction with planning cycle into the operations of the Group.
Each the Companys Articles: operating unit prepares a business plan, which sets out detailed objectives, which are submitted to Executive keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations management and the Board for approval.
As an integral granted by Directors and the scope of any approvals part of the plan, each operating unit considers the given: and significant risks to its business and to the achievement of the proposed plan.
In doing so, each unit measures its regularly review conflict authorisations.
progress and completion against a series of mitigating control actions designed to address these risks.
Internal control and Risk management In consolidating unique risk events group-wide, this risk The Board is responsible for the Groups system of model not only assists in the allocation of Internal Audit internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such resource to provide assurance on significant risks in its a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the annual plan, but also enables both Executive Directors and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only the Audit Committee, which assists the Board in discharging provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against its review responsibilities, to monitor operating units material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable progress in implementing programmes aimed at mitigating assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures risk.
These review responsibilities are assisted by the should not exceed the expected benefits.
This committee comprises The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, the Chief Executive, a cross section of senior officers and evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by managers of the Group and is chaired by the Finance the Group.
This process was in place throughout the Director.
The operation of the risk committee is subject to year under review and up to the date of approval of the oversight of the Audit Committee.
the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and is in Board meetings and committees accordance with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
As a result of the high level of corporate activity during the year, 13 Board meetings, both scheduled and unscheduled The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the were held.
Not all Directors could be present at all Groups system of financial and non-financial internal unscheduled Board meetings.
The number of scheduled controls, including operational and compliance controls, Board meetings and Committee meetings attended as a risk management and the Groups high-level internal member by each Director during the year are below.
Scheduled Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee meetings of 7 meetings of 5 meetings of 4 D Mapp 7 P Rigby 7 A Walker 7 S Watson 1 2 1 P Kirby 7 5 3 J Davis 6 2 3 B ONeill 7 5 4 Sean Watson ceased to be a director of Old Informa on 8 May 2009.
Pamela Kirby joined the Audit Committee on 27 April 2009.
John Davis joined the Remuneration Committee on 27 April 2009.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 41 the Year in Review coRPoRate goveRnance statement continued The Audit Committee has at least one member possessing nomination committee recent and relevant experience, as described in the Smith The Company has established a Nomination Committee Report appended to the Code.
Its Chairman, Dr Brendan whose terms of reference were updated and adopted ONeill, has extensive experience of audit committee on 24 June 2009, and are available on the Companys procedures, and John Davis is a qualified chartered website.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the accountant and the Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group Chairman, Derek Mapp, and also comprises John Davis plc, a listed company.
and the Chief Executive, Peter Rigby.
The Nomination The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of Committee considers the mix of skills and experience the Groups financial statements and any formal that the Board requires and seeks the appointment of announcements relating to the Groups performance.
Directors who meet those requirements to ensure that The Committee is responsible for monitoring the the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
effectiveness of the external audit process and making The Nomination Committee did not meet during 2009. recommendations to the Board in relation to the The constitution of the Boards committees for the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the Company to be effective following the Scheme becoming external auditors.
It is responsible for ensuring that an effective was determined by the Board as a whole.
appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing Remuneration committee non-audit services and fees.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups system of internal controls and The membership of the Remuneration Committee is set the process for monitoring and evaluating the risks out on page 45 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
It reviews the effectiveness of the The Committees terms of reference were updated Group Internal Audit function which includes business and adopted on 24 June 2009, and are available on risk management and is responsible for approving, the Companys website.
The Committees principal upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, responsibilities are to: the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
These responsibilities are principally carried set, review and recommend to the Board for out through the Risk Committee whose activities are approval the remuneration policy and strategy with overseen by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
respect to the Executive Directors: The Committee meets as appropriate with the Executive set, review and approve the individual remuneration Directors and management, as well as privately with both packages of the Executive Directors including terms the external and internal auditors.
and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: and In 2009 the Committee discharged its responsibilities primarily by: approve the introduction and rules of any Group share-based incentive schemes.
reviewing the Groups draft preliminary and interim results statements prior to Board approval and audit committee reviewing the external auditors detailed reports The membership of the Audit Committee comprises thereon: Dr Brendan ONeill, as Chairman of the Committee, and reviewing the Groups interim management John Davis, and from 27 April 2009, Dr Pamela Kirby.
statements and pre-close period updates prior Sean Watson was a member until he ceased to be to their release: a Director on 8 May 2009.
The Committees terms of reference were updated and adopted on reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups 24 June 2009, and are available on the Companys accounting policies: website.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the reviewing regularly the impact on the Groups Board for approval.
It met four times during 2009. financial statements of matters such as the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: 42 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 recommending to the full Board, which adopted the which the external auditors will and will not be allowed recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP to provide to the group, subject to fide minimis levels.
as the Groups external auditors: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of reviewing and approving the audit fee and the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups the external auditors plan for the current year, noting external auditors: the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit signs the audit report and who, in accordance with of the Groups financial statements, which included professional rules, has not held office for more than key areas of scope of work: key risks on the financial five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: statements: confirmations of auditor independence the arrangements for day-to-day management of and the proposed audit fee and approving the terms the audit relationship: of engagement for the audit: a report from the external auditors describing their reviewing the Groups system of controls and its arrangements to identify, report and manage any effectiveness: conflicts of interest: and reviewing the Groups systems to identify and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by manage risks including regular consultation with the external auditors, in addition to its case-by-case the Head of Internal Audit : approval of the provision of non-audit services by reviewing the ongoing reports from Business Risk the external auditors.
Management: and To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration Audit Committee reviewed: and performance of significant recent acquisitions the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors compared to plans.
independence and objectivity: The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit whistleblowing procedures to ensure that appropriate plan and any variations from the plan: arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors suitable subsequent follow-up action.
in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and The Audit Committee also undertakes a thorough performance evaluation which is led by the Chairman of the content of the external auditors reporting on the Committee.
external auditors Following the above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring corporate Responsibility cR of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the Keith Brownlie is the senior executive with day-to-day independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical responsibility for Corporate Responsibility direction and and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, development.
He served in this capacity throughout and day to day responsibility to the Group Finance 2009.
The Groups CR priorities and strategy are Director.
It states that the external auditors are jointly formulated and led by a CR committee which is chaired responsible to the Board and the Audit Committee and by the Chief Executive, Peter Rigby.
Meetings are minuted that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The and communicated to other senior level committees policy also sets out the categories of non-audit services when appropriate.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 43 the Year in Review coRPoRate goveRnance statement continued CR priorities have been decided upon using a diverse range of stakeholder insights including: in-house expertise from colleagues: regular presentations from external parties at Group CR Committee meetings: institutional investor feedback and insights: staff communications: feedback and questions from the Groups customers: dialogue with Trade Unions and Non-governmental Organisations NGOs : the Groups membership of networks such as the MediaCSRForum: and advice from our retained CR advisers.
The Group CR Strategy has five key pillars: 1. providing a rewarding, fair and inspiring workplace for staff: 2. ensuring product integrity and quality: 3. managing environmental impacts: 4. maintaining and improving customer service levels: and 5. giving back to the communities in which it operates.
Further information can be found on each of the above in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 55 to 57.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by John Burton Company Secretary 2 March 2010 44 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009
