STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate Chairman until at least 30 September 2012.
The Board has reviewed and is reporting on the recognised that with the acquisition of the Companys largest Companys compliance with the requirements of the Combined distributor in April 2009, this transaction would increase revenues, Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council costs, staff and global of ce locations dramatically and that in July 2003 and reissued in June 2008 for the year ended continuity at Chief Executive Of cer level was important following 31 December 2009. this transaction and in managing key elements of integration alongside operating a fair channel strategy for all distributors.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 The Board also believes that it continues to be appropriate, with of the Code save as provided below: the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer roles being combined, to maintain John Rennocks in his role as Deputy Chairman, in Andrew Sukawaty acts in the dual role of Chairman and Chief addition to his role as Senior Independent Director.
In this role, Executive Of cer.
Mr Sukawaty was appointed Chairman concerns can be conveyed to Mr Rennocks, independently of in December 2003 and was asked by the Board to take on the the Executive Directors, by other Directors.
Mr Rennocks is also additional responsibilities of Chief Executive Of cer in March available to meet shareholders and has over time met with 2004.
The Board believes that Mr Sukawatys wide experience several institutional shareholders.
of the telecommunications industry in an executive capacity means that he is extremely well quali ed to lead the Company The Board still believes that it is appropriate to consider Admiral in the joint role of Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer.
In James Ellis Jr Rtd as an independent, Non-Executive Director, October 2009, the Board announced that it had requested, notwithstanding that he is an independent, non-executive and Mr Sukawaty had agreed, to remain in the joint role until director of the Lockheed Martin Corporation which is a supplier 30 September 2011 and then to move to the role of Chairman to the Company.
until at least 30 September 2012: and in his capacity as Executive Chairman of the Company, Andrew Collectively, the Board believes that it possesses all of the Sukawaty acts as Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
necessary range of qualities and experience to lead the Company The Senior Independent Director, who is a member of the effectively.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
The Nominations Committee, acts as Chairman of the meetings Board is satis ed that every Director commits suf cient time to for discussion relating to succession planning for the Chief the ful lment of their duties as Directors of the Company.
The Executive Of cer role.
Board delegates management of the business to the Companys Executive Staff and to the Executive Management Teams listed The Board on page 31, who meet on a regular basis.
The composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly reviewed and evaluated so as to re ect the Boards and To address the effect of s175 of the Companies Act 2006 the Committees balance of skills, expected time commitment, directors con icts of interests which came into force on knowledge and experience.
Board membership and tenure are 1 October 2008, the Companys Articles of Association were considered together, and weighed for relevant bene t amended to enable the Board to authorise situations that may considering any foreseeable business plans, given further that give rise to Directors con icts of interest.
During 2009, each the Board should not be enlarged to a size that is unwieldy.
The Director was asked to identify any situations where their own Board currently has eight Directors, comprising two Executive interests might con ict with the interests of the Company and any Directors and six independent, Non-Executive Directors, which is such instances were reviewed by the Board in November 2009. considered an effective size and balance for the Company.
A list The Directors have an ongoing duty to notify the Board of any of the individual Directors, their biographies and details of their potential con icts and a formal review by the Board will be Committee membership are provided on pages 30 and 31. undertaken annually.
There were no con icts of interest noted by any of the Directors.
Following the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in June 2005, Andrew Sukawaty remained Chairman and Chief The Board believes, in principle, in the bene t of Executive Executive Of cer, both executive roles.
There was a commitment Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other that whilst this did not meet the requirements of the Code, there companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the would, in time, be a separation of the roles as noted above.
All such appointments require the prior Board continues to believe that Mr Sukawatys involvement in approval of the Board.
Executive Directors may not take on more both roles provides a balanced and stable platform for the than one Non-Executive Directorship of a FTSE 100 company Company as it matures as a public company and continues to or any chairmanship of such a company.
Mr Sukawaty and be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Mr Medlock have external directorships and they are permitted To re ect this and in response to a request from the Board, in to retain any directors fees from these appointments.
Details October 2009, Mr Sukawaty agreed that he would remain in the of these directorships can be found in their biographies on joint role until 30 September 2011 and then move to the role of page 30 and details of the fees retained can be found on page 50.
To avoid potential con icts of interest, Non-Executive Directors are expected to inform the Chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
36 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer is responsible for the The Non-Executive Directors meet annually, without the running of the Board and for implementing strategy for the Group Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer in attendance, to assess operations.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved Board balance and independence and to monitor the powers to it for decision but can also delegate speci c responsibilities to of individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent its Board Committees or to committees convened for special Director chairs these meetings.
The Board ensures that as an integral part of its performance and decision making, it carefully considers the On joining the Board, new Directors are given a comprehensive, statutory directors duties.
The Board has an annual rolling plan formal and tailored induction programme organised through of items for discussion which is reviewed and adapted regularly the Company Secretary, including the provision of background to ensure that all of the matters reserved to the Board, as well material on the Company and brie ngs with senior management.
as other key topical and strategic issues, are discussed at the Each Directors individual experience and background is taken appropriate time.
Regular items for Board meetings include into account in developing a programme tailored to his or her updates on business development opportunities, monthly own requirements.
Mrs Obuchowski, who joined the Board in financial and operational reviews and as appropriate, reports from May 2009, received a detailed induction programme with senior each of the principal Board Committees.
Among the key matters management from across the Group.
on which the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its annual budget, dividends, financial reporting The Company is committed to the provision of continuing and major corporate activities.
Typically, at each meeting, the professional development training for its Directors and in 2009, Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer report to the the Board received presentations from the Companys external Board and several senior executives present updates on strategy advisers and guest speakers on subjects appropriate to the and the Groups operations.
All Committee Chairman report orally Companys business and changes to legislation.
The Company on the proceedings of their Committees at the next meeting of Secretary supplies all Directors with information on relevant the Board.
legal and best practice developments.
In addition to regular Board meetings, the Board also holds a All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of two day strategy meeting each year at which it considers the Association to be elected by shareholders at the first general future direction of the business.
These strategy sessions are meeting after their appointment.
Appointments to the Board are attended by several senior executives who present on specialised made on merit and against objective criteria.
At least one-third agenda items.
In September 2009, a Board meeting was held at of the Directors must retire and, as appropriate, seek re-election the Inmarsat of ce in Washington, D. C. in the US, where the by the shareholders at each annual general meeting.
Board met with senior members of both the Inmarsat and Stratos management teams.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers in advance of the relevant meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Non-Executive Directors have been appointed initially for three Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, advising years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless agreed by the Board, through the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer, on the Board, remain in of ce for a period longer than six years, or all corporate governance matters and minuting any unresolved two terms in of ce, whichever is the shorter.
The diverse concerns expressed by any Director.
Were a Director to resign experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors over an unresolved issue, the Chairman and Chief Executive ensures that they can debate with, and constructively challenge, Of cer would bring the issue to the attention of the Board and management both in relation to the development of strategy for material issues, the Director would make the reasons for and in relation to operational and financial performance.
key elements of the role and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors are to oversee: The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all Directors are able to take the strategy of the Group: independent advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
the Groups performance: No requests for external professional advice were received standards of conduct, compliance and control on the Board during the year.
and in the Group generally: and remuneration of and succession planning for Executive Directors.
Inmarsat plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2009 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board Committees Additionally, the Audit Committee reviewed the financial data The main Board Committees of Inmarsat plc are the and risk reports for Stratos for the quarterly and half yearly Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the reporting periods.
Stratos has its own Audit Committee, chaired Nominations Committee.
by an independent Chairman, while it has outstanding bonds with reporting requirements.
The terms of reference explaining the roles of the Committees of Inmarsat plc which are reviewed at meetings during the year The Audit Committee was responsible for approving the 20-F for and the authority delegated to them by the Board are published the year ended 31 December 2008 which was led with the US on the Groups website at www.
The Secretary to Securities and Exchange Commission in April 2009: this included these Board Committees is the Company Secretary.
an annual assessment and related report from management.
Audit Committee During 2009, preparations were made to comply with the annual assessment by management of the effectiveness of its internal John Rennocks Chairman controls over financial reporting to comply with s404 of the Sir Bryan Carsberg Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 SOX for its US reporting subsidiaries.
Stephen Davidson Following a successful debt restructuring in November 2009, Janice Obuchowski with effect from 5 May 2009 the Companys US reporting companies led voluntary forms in January 2010 to deregister from making lings with the Securities Exchange Commission in the US: this means the SOX reporting requirements are no longer required.
However, the Audit Responsibilities include: Committee continues to ensure that adherence to the same Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and risk management rigorous standards of documenting and testing of controls occurs Reviewing the scope of the audit and management response when reviewing and approving financial results.
thereto Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee the role of which is detailed on page 41, reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of All members of the Audit Committee are independent, Nonfinancial and other material information to the Board, to the Executive Directors and have signi cant, recent and relevant public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Audit financial experience.
The Board is con dent that the collective Committee to review and clarify the completeness of financial experience of the Audit Committee members enables them, as reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
a group, to act as an effective Audit Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the The Company has reviewed its relationship with its Auditors, Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer and Deloitte LLP, and concluded that there are suf cient controls and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Deloitte LLP audit engagement processes in place to ensure the required level of independence partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full and the Company has no other reason to seek to re-tender the communication of matters relating to the audit.
The Chairman of external audit role.
The audit engagement partner rotates every the Audit Committee meets regularly with the internal and five years and the present audit partner rotates off the audit external Auditors.
The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it the financial reporting process, the adequacy and effectiveness of has an objective and professional relationship with the Auditors.
the operation of internal controls and risk management and the In addition to their statutory duties, the Companys Auditors may integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of also be employed where, as a result of their position as Auditors, signi cant issues and judgements, policies and disclosures.
Its they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of managements of non-audit services by the Auditors to ensure that there is response to any major external or internal audit recommendation adequate protection of their independence and objectivity.
and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external The policy identi es three categories of services: audit-related Auditors.
services, which the Companys Auditors provide such as interim and full year reporting : prohibited services, which the Companys During the year to 31 December 2009, the Audit Committee Auditors may never provide such as corporate finance consulting reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, or advisory services : and potential services, which the Companys half-year and full-year financial statements, interim management Auditors may in certain circumstances provide, subject to statements and results announcements and the quarterly financial procurement procedures and fee constraints such as tax advisory reports for two US reporting subsidiaries.
It considered internal services and due diligence.
The Auditors regularly con rm their audit reports and risk management updates, agreed external and independence to the Committee.
internal audit plans, received updates on management responses to audit recommendations and approved the review of accounting policies.
38 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the year, speci c approval had been given by the Audit During 2009, the Remuneration Committee made Committee for the Auditors to perform non-audit services.
recommendations to the Board that: Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
Fees charged by the Auditors in respect awards be made under the Performance Share Plan and Bonus of non-audit services require the prior approval of the Audit Share Plan to certain members of senior management: Committee, except where the fee does not exceed more than following the agreement of Mr Sukawaty to remain as 5% of the total revenues paid to the Auditors in that financial Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer, revisions be made to year.
The Audit Committee has agreed that the Company could the terms of the Chief Executive Of cer Share Award: and commit to fees in relation to tax advisory and tax compliance a deferred share bonus award be made to the Chairman and work from the Auditors, in aggregate, of up to 20% of the Chief Executive Of cer to incentivise him to achieve key total audit fee each year, with up to 50,000 for any one project, financial, strategic and operational goals and to continue to without the need to seek approval for individual projects.
A align his interests with those of shareholders.
breakdown of the fees paid to the Auditors during the year is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Additionally, the Committee approved the annual bonus award to Inmarsat staff and an award under the Share Incentive Plan SIP Remuneration Committee to eligible Inmarsat staff, with an arrangement replicating the SIP as far as possible for eligible Inmarsat staff based overseas.
Stephen Davidson Chairman Sir Bryan Carsberg All of the decisions of the Remuneration Committee on Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd remuneration matters in 2009 were reported to and endorsed Kathleen Flaherty by the Board.
Nominations Committee Responsibilities include: Andrew Sukawaty Chairman Determining policy on remuneration including annual bonuses Stephen Davidson Setting and monitoring achievement of the objectives for the Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Executive Directors The grant of share options and share awards under the short John Rennocks and long-term incentive plans Responsibilities include: The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent, Nominating candidates for appointment as Directors Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee, on Recommendations in relation to the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of their term behalf of the Board, meets as and when necessary to review Review of succession planning and approve, as appropriate, the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management and major remuneration plans for the Group.
The Remuneration Committee appraises the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer against his written objectives.
Similarly, the Chairman and Chief Executive The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of Of cer appraises the other Executive Director and makes independent, Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations recommendations to the Remuneration Committee relating Committee meets as and when necessary.
The Nominations to bonus achievement.
The Remuneration Committee approves Committee has responsibility for nominating to the Board, the setting of objectives for all of the Executive Directors candidates for appointment as Directors, bearing in mind the and authorises their annual bonus payments for achievement need for a broad representation of skills across the Board.
The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to The Remuneration Committee provides remuneration packages the Board concerning the re-appointment of any independent, necessary and suf cient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Non-Executive Director by the Board at the conclusion of his or Directors to run the Company successfully without motivating her speci ed term: the election and re-election of any Director by them to take excessive risk.
The packages take into account shareholders under the retirement provisions of the Companys available remuneration data and views from advisers.
The Articles of Association: and changes to senior management, Remuneration Committee is empowered to recommend the including Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee gives grant of share options under the existing share option plans and full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, to make awards under the short and long-term incentive plans.
taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the The Remuneration Committee considers there to be an Company and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board appropriate balance between xed and variable remuneration and from senior management in the future.
and between short and long-term variable components of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has also spent time considering the components of the long-term incentive plans in the face of the current uncertain economic times as they consider awards to be made in 2010.
The Companys remuneration policy is intended to reward successful delivery against increasing returns for shareholders and to support the achievement of strategy.
Inmarsat plc 39 Annual report and accounts 2009 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued During 2009, the Nominations Committee agreed which Performance evaluation Directors would retire by rotation at the 2009 AGM, The effectiveness of the Board is an essential element of the recommended the appointment of Janice Obuchowski and Companys effective and ef cient performance.
During 2009, kept under review the combined Chairman and Chief Executive the Board and each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Of cer roles.
With Mr Butlers departure, the number of Executive Committees undertook performance evaluations.
The main Directors reduced to two.
It remains the intention of the elements in the evaluation process were: Nominations Committee not to recommend an increase in this number at the current time.
The Chairman and Chief Executive individual Directors and Committee members completed Of cer did not and will not chair the Nominations Committee separate evaluation questionnaires regarding the processes when it is dealing with agenda items relating to the role of of the Board and its Committees, their effectiveness and where Chief Executive Of cer.
They also undertook a peer review in which they assessed their fellow Directors In relation to the appointment of Mrs Obuchowski, the performance: Nominations Committee took the decision that it did not each of the Non-Executive Directors had a discussion with need to conduct an external search or external veri cation the Company Secretary: by a consultancy.
Mrs Obuchowski had signi cant experience the results were compiled and analysed by the Company as an independent, Non-Executive Director of Stratos which Secretary and circulated to the full Board: and became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and this, the Board considered the results of the evaluation process plus her knowledge and direct exposure of US regulatory and as a speci c item of business.
government operations, made her a suitable complementary addition to the Board.
The evaluation process concluded that during the year, the Board and its main Committees had functioned ef ciently and 2009 Board and Committee meetings effectively with a good balance of the necessary skills required During the year to 31 December 2009, the Board met eight times.
and that the individual Directors had also met the standards This excludes ad hoc meetings held solely to deal with expected of them, with each making a signi cant contribution procedural matters.
The following table shows the attendance of to the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors remained highly Directors at meetings of the Board and its main Committees: supportive of the Directors and Executive Management teams and expressed their appreciation of the culture of openness and Audit Remuneration Nominations transparency within the Group.
Board Committee Committee Committee Michael Butler The issues identi ed during the evaluation process related to resigned 30 April 2009 2 2 the skill set of the Board and the need to keep this under review, Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 5 5 5 5 3 ensuring strategy discussions remained regular agenda items Stephen Davidson 8 8 5 5 5 5 4 4 as well as part of detailed strategy sessions and providing regular Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 8 8 5 5 4 4 updates to the Board on actual performance compared to any Kathleen Flaherty 8 8 5 5 3 business plans of Board-approved acquisitions or investments.
Rick Medlock 8 8 5 Janice Obuchowski appointed 5 May 2009 5 6 3 3 1 1 A performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be John Rennocks 8 8 5 5 3 4 4 conducted annually and the process for such evaluation will Andrew Sukawaty 8 8 5 3 4 4 be reviewed by the Board, considering each year how this will be undertaken.
The Nominations Committee con rmed to the Board that the Note: The Company Secretary attended all Board and Committee meetings.
contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for The external auditor attends the Audit Committee meetings.
re-appointment at the 2010 AGM continued to bene t the Board and the Company should support their re-appointment.
Except for one meeting, the full Board participated in every Board meeting and Committee members participated in every Directors remuneration Committee meeting.
In an instance where a Director is unable to Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors attend Board or Committee meetings, any comments which he remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration or she may have arising out of the papers to be considered at the Report on pages 43 to 53. meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with Directors attend several other meetings during the year and its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is contribute in various ways outside the formal meeting schedule.
understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board ensures that the Groups strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term 40 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009 2009 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS shareholder value.
An audited 2009 Annual Report will be made Internal controls available to shareholders and all results are posted on the The Board con rms that the procedures necessary to implement Companys website, as are presentations made in respect of the the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the full year results.
Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005 have been established and are reviewed on The Company has undertaken regular investor road shows an ongoing basis.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility in the UK and overseas and presentations were also made after for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal publication of the Preliminary Results in March 2009.
Investor controls and it receives regular reports from management and analyst conference calls took place after the half year results identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within the were published in August 2009.
There is an ongoing programme business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, of dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Steps continue performance, management and governance are discussed to be taken to embed internal control and risk management within the constraints of information which has already been further into the operations of the business and to deal with made public.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders areas of improvement which come to managements and the may be in more regular contact with the Company than other Boards attention.
shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any pricesensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional The Company has an established Disclosure Committee and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial with responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and Services Authority requirements.
procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information and other procedures necessary to enable the The Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer and the Chief Financial to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised Of cer to provide their certi cations in relation to publicly through the normal channels or such concerns have not been disclosed information.
Mr Rennocks and Mr Davidson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attended some institutional The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review meetings during 2009.
Arrangements can be made to meet of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the with Mr Rennocks through the Company Secretary.
year ended 31 December 2009 and for the period up to the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements contained In the past, the Board has consulted with shareholders in in the Annual Report.
The review covered all material controls, connection with speci c issues where it considers it appropriate including financial, operational and compliance controls and and it would do so in the future as needed.
The Board con rms that the actions it considers necessary have been or are being taken to remedy The Company understands that there may be shareholder any signi cant failings or weaknesses identi ed from its review concerns relating to the combined role of Chairman and Chief of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering Executive Of cer, which is why particular focus is given to ensure the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that governance is robust.
that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The Board also con rms that it has not been advised of material Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they weaknesses in that part of the internal control system that will have an opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the relates to financial reporting.
AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, Remuneration Committee, together with as many Directors as which have been in place throughout the year under review possible, will attend the 2010 AGM and be available to answer and up to the date of this report, include: shareholders questions.
Voting may be by form of proxy, by poll, by a show of hands or a combination of all three.
This year, Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is facilities are being provided for CREST shareholders to lodge in place which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group proxy appointments electronically.
The voting results will be and how this is measured across identi ed macro and business noti ed to the UK Listing Authority through a Regulatory risks.
As required by the policy, management operates a risk Information Service immediately after the meeting and will be management process to identify, evaluate and report signi cant published on the Companys website.
risks within the business and to report to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, JPMorgan Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of monitored by Risk Committees in Inmarsat Global and Stratos, institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
which identify the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, Any concerns of major shareholders would be communicated to the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to the Board by the Chief Financial Of cer.
As a matter of routine, manage the risk to the desired level.
The risk registers for the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share Inmarsat Global and Stratos are available monthly for review price, trading activity and details of movements in institutional by senior management of both businesses and quarterly to investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided with current the Board and to the Audit Committee.
Inmarsat plc 41 Annual report and accounts 2009 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Management structure: there is a clearly fide ned organisational Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular structure throughout the Group with established lines of reports from the internal and external Auditors and assures itself reporting and delegation of authority based on job responsibilities that the internal control environment of the Group is operating and experience.
Within the businesses, senior management effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to meetings occur each week to allow prompt discussion of relevant ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and business issues.
A process of self-certi cation is used where to safeguard the Groups assets.
Signi cant capital projects and Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
The Company controls in operation to mitigate risk in key process areas.
They has in place a formal procedure by which staff can, in con dence, also con rm annually, in writing, that risk management processes raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and are in place and are operating effectively.
other matters, including pensions administration often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
Arrangements are in place Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and nonfinancial follow-up action and the results would be reported to the information to management and the Board.
forecasts and performance targets allow management to monitor the key business and financial activities and the progress towards Going Concern achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is approved The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a concern.
Despite the current volatility in financial markets and standardised reporting process.
In addition, in line with the uncertain economic outlook, the Directors believe that the Group Transparency Directive, the Company publishes interim has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ow management statements.
generation and is compliant with all its financial covenants.
In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors Information systems: information systems are developed to considered the Board-approved budget, the fifteen month rolling support the Groups long-term objectives and are managed by a forecast, the cash ow forecast and the most recent Long Range professionally staffed team.
Appropriate policies and procedures Financial Plan.
In addition, the Directors considered the maturity are in place covering all signi cant areas of the business.
pro le of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, the forecasts Contractual commitments: there are clearly fide ned policies and and covenant calculations were stress tested by applying a set of procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a include detailed requirements that must be completed prior reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in respect to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
of the commercial, control and risk management aspects of the Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going concern basis obligations being entered into.
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Risk management process Inmarsat plc Board Audit Committee Executive Management Boards Inmarsat Global and Stratos fide fines the risk governance framework, Reviews the risk management framework Review the risk management framework risk culture and principles and the effectiveness of internal controls, Review the effectiveness of internal controls risk management systems and major risk Sets overall risk strategy and policy Review the risk management systems and initiatives Approves risk levels major risk initiatives Reviews the internal audit programme Is responsible for an effective system of and reports internal controls The Stratos Audit Committee also Approves risk decisions that are beyond undertakes its review of Stratos risks delegated authorities Risk Committees Inmarsat Global and Stratos Review the risk pro le against risk appetite and makes recommendations to management in relation to risk pro le, strategy and key controls Review the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Approve risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities Assess major risk-related projects Business Operations Implements mitigation strategies 42 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2009
