FACTS AND FIGURES Summary Directors report and Corporate governance 39 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance Company Secretary The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set out All Directors have access to the advice and services of the in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code Company Secretary.
His duties include responsibility for advising and considers that the Company has complied with Combined the Board on corporate governance, and for ensuring good Code requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2009. information flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
Internal control Shareholder relations The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the releases quarterly results.
In addition, regular meetings are held procedures necessary to apply the Combined Code, including clear with major institutional shareholders to discuss progress of the operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are For the year ended 31 December 2009, the Board has conducted available to meet with major shareholders to discuss governance a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
and strategy, and to understand any issues and concerns.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it can only provide The Annual General Meeting provides an additional useful reasonable and not absolute assurance against material opportunity to meet private shareholders.
Information of interest misstatement or loss.
Whilst areas for improvement in internal to investors is also maintained on the Companys website at control have been identified and actions initiated, no significant www.
com investors shortcomings in internal control have been identified from the annual assessment.
Summary Audit Committee report Board and Committees The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial expert, direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
supports the Board in meeting its responsibilities in relation It also ensures that the necessary financial and human resources to the integrity of the Groups financial statements and are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
There are eight associated announcements, the adequacy of internal control regular Board meetings a year and further meetings are held and risk management systems and the appointment and as needed.
work of the internal and external auditors.
The external auditor and the Head of Global Internal Audit both have the David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
opportunity to meet privately with the Committee.
In addition, a team of six experienced independent Non-Executive Directors represent a strong source of advice and judgement.
The During the year, the Committees deliberations included role of David Kappler, the Senior Independent Director, includes a wide range of matters addressing all its main areas of being available to liaise with shareholders who have issues to raise.
The Committees main focus was to review Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and ongoing the quarterly, interim and full-year financial results and to training needs for all Directors are kept under review.
review the effectiveness of internal control, financial reporting and risk management processes, through reports and In addition to the Executive Committee, the following main presentations received from internal audit, the external Committees of the Board have been established: Audit Committee: auditors and management.
Particular consideration was also Remuneration Committee: Nomination Committee: and Corporate given to Group tax policies and initiatives, global technology Responsibility Committee.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination strategy and the impact on IHG of continued volatility and risk and Corporate Responsibility Committees consist wholly of Nonaversion in the financial markets.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Nomination Committee only.
The terms of reference of these Committees were reviewed during 2009 to ensure that they continue to reflect best practice, and are available on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance committees, or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
A performance evaluation of the Board and of individual Directors was undertaken for 2009.
This concluded that the Board as a whole operates in an effective manner, and that each Director continues to make an effective contribution, and retains a strong commitment to the role.
The work of each main Committee was also considered to be effective.
