36 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009 Our senior leadership team Non-Executives 1 David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 4 Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 7 Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed a Director in December 2007.
Vice President and Chairman, Greater Appointed Non-Executive Chairman Chairman of Byotrol plc, Chairman of China Region, Nalco Company.
Also Non-Executive Gorkana Limited and Senior Adviser to Chairman and President, North Asia Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited 3i PLC.
Was President, Unilever Home Region, President, Business Development, and a Director of Temple Bar Investment and Personal Care, and a Director of Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, Trust PLC.
Formerly Chairman of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. until Eastman Kodak Company.
Executive Director of AB Volvo.
2 David Kappler Senior Independent 5 Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director # Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility A Non-Executive Director and a member of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee # An independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director and Senior Appointed a Director in August 2005.
Has and a member of the Audit, Remuneration Independent Director in June 2004. over 30 years experience in advertising and Nomination Committees He is also Non-Executive Chairman of and was, until 2007, Associate Dean, An independent Non-Executive Director Premier Foods plc and a Non-Executive External Relations at London Business and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Director of Shire plc.
Also serves as a Non-Executive An independent Non-Executive Director Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Director of Hudson Highland Group Inc. and a member of the Audit, Remuneration, A member of the Presidents Committee Age 62.
Nomination and Corporate Responsibility of the CBI and a member of the Trilantic Committees 6 Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director Europe Advisory Council.
An independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in December 2005. and a member of the Audit, Nomination 3 Graham Allan Non-Executive Director Was formerly Vice Chairman of the and Corporate Responsibility Committees Appointed a Director in January 2010.
Serves as a An independent Non-Executive Director President of Yum!
Restaurants Non-Executive Director of Yum!
Brands, and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees International YRI, a subsidiary of Yum!
Inc. and of Modern Bank, N. A. and on A member of the Executive Committee Brands, Inc. since 2003.
Previously a number of US Councils and advisory Not a main Board Director Executive Vice President and Chief boards.
Operating Officer of YRI and Managing Director of YRI in Europe.
15 13 14 2 5 4 8 FACTS AND FIGURES Our senior leadership team 37 Executives 8 Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive 11 Kirk Kinsell President, EMEA 15 George Turner Executive Vice Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005.
Appointed President, General Counsel and Previously at Cadbury Schweppes plc, President, EMEA in 2007.
Responsible Company Secretary where he was most recently President, for the business development and Joined the Group in September 2008 Europe, Middle East & Africa.
Serves on performance of all the hotel brands and from Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
the Executive Committee of The World properties in the EMEA region.
Appointed Executive Vice President, Travel & Tourism Council and the General Counsel and Company Secretary 12 Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Responsible for Global Human Resources corporate governance, risk management, 9 Jim Abrahamson President, Joined the Group in December 2005 from insurance, data privacy, internal audit, The Americas Compass Group PLC.
Responsible for company secretariat and legal.
Joined the Group in January 2009 from global talent management and leadership Global Hyatt Corporation.
Responsible development, reward strategy and for the business development and implementation.
Age 46. performance of all the hotel brands and In addition, IHG has a strong 13 Tom Seddon Executive Vice President properties in the Americas region.
Age 54. management team who report into and Chief Marketing Officer 10 Tom Conophy Executive Vice President Having served in senior positions with the IHG Senior Leadership Team.
and Chief Information Officer IHGs predecessor companies until Following the re-organisation of the Joined the Group in February 2006 from 2004, rejoined the Group in 2007 from Asia Pacific region in June 2009, Starwood Hotels & Resorts International.
Responsible for worldwide Jan Smits was appointed Regional Responsible for global technology, brand management, global sales, Managing Director, Asia Australasia, including IT systems and information marketing, loyalty programmes and and Keith Barr was appointed management throughout the Group.
Regional Managing Director, 14 Richard Solomons Chief Financial Officer Greater China reporting directly to and Head of Commercial Development Andrew Cosslett who has overall Joined the Group in 1992.
Responsible responsibility for the Asia Pacific region.
for corporate and regional finance, Group financial control, strategy, investor relations, tax, treasury, commercial development and procurement.
