40 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate governance 2009 saw an increased focus on corporate governance by external capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and regulators in the wake of the global economic recession and authorisation processes: and perceived shortfalls in governance standards in the financial risk management through an ongoing process, which has been services sector.
in place up to the date of the accounts, providing assurance through reports from the Head of Global Risk Management, Although not directly affected by the proposals arising from the the Head of Global Internal Audit, and, as appropriate, from Walker Review of Corporate Governance of UK Banking Industry, management, that the significant risks faced by the Group are IHG takes its corporate governance responsibilities seriously and being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having aims to implement and uphold robust and responsible business regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
processes and policies throughout the Group.
The Board continues to observe recommendations arising from current regulatory In addition, the Audit Committee reviews: scrutiny and aims to implement any relevant changes proposed regular reports from management, Global Internal Audit and by the Financial Reporting Council following their review of the the external auditor on the effectiveness of systems for internal Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code.
control, financial reporting and risk management: This section of the Annual Report describes IHGs approach the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken towards control, risk management and compliance in accordance by management: and with current regulatory standards.
material financial and non-financial risks.
Combined Code compliance The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 31 December The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set out 2009.
This covered all material controls, including financial, in the Combined Code, available at www.
uk, and considers operational and compliance controls, and risk management that the Company has complied with the Combined Codes systems, and took into account any material developments since requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2009. the year end.
As InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs shares are also listed on the The review was carried out through the monitoring process set New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the Company is subject to the rules out above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Exchange Commission SEC.
As required by the SEC, a statement the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be outlining the differences between the Companys corporate recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute governance practices and those followed by US companies may assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Whilst areas be found on the Companys website at www.
com investors for improvement in internal control have been identified and under corporate governance NYSE differences.
actions initiated as a result of the above process, no significant shortcomings in internal control have been identified from the Control environment annual assessment.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To comply with the Groups US obligations, arising from the In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board has Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, the key financial controls across all established the procedures necessary to apply the Combined our business units have been identified and evaluated.
This has Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility enabled appropriate representations regarding the effectiveness and delegated authorities.
of internal financial controls to be made in the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F, in compliance with these US obligations.
Business performance is managed closely and, in particular, the Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Operating With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure Committees have established processes, as part of the normal against every risk to the fullest extent.
Whilst the insurance market good management of the business, to monitor: has eased in some areas, certain risks remain difficult to insure both as to breadth and cost of coverage.
In some cases external strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series insurance is not available at all or not at an economic price.
of Group and regional strategic reviews: The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external financial performance, within a comprehensive financial insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of such planning and accounting framework: cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
The key risk factors that could affect the Group are set out in the Business Review on pages 32 to 34.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Corporate governance 41 Board and Committee structure On appointment, Non-Executive Directors participate in induction programmes designed to meet their individual needs and to To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal and Committee structure operates as set out below.
activities of the Group and with central and regional management.
Graham Allan, as a Non-Executive Director appointed on 1 January The Board 2010, has been invited to participate in such a programme.
The Boards current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, Comprehensive induction programmes are also put in place for two Executive and six Non-Executive Directors meets the any Executive Director who may join the Group.
These induction requirement of the Combined Code for at least half the Board, programmes accord with the best practice guidelines.
The excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive updating of all Directors skills and knowledge is a progressive Directors.
In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive exercise.
This is accomplished at Board and strategy meetings, Directors are independent.
through presentations and visits to hotels and other business The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic premises, and through contact with employees at all levels.
direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and further It therefore approves strategic plans and capital and revenue meetings are held as needed.
During 2009, eight Board meetings budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the were held.
These were attended by all Directors with the exception performance of past investments and maintains an overview of Jonathan Linen who could not attend one meeting due to illness.
and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
Despite being unable to attend, he was provided with all the papers It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, and information relevant to that meeting and was able to discuss governance and compliance.
The Board ensures that the necessary matters arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a schedule of matters All Directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers which are reserved for its attention and decision.
These may be in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at meetings.
found on the Companys website at www.
com investors Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by under corporate governance main board and executive committee.
regular business presentations outside Board meetings and visits to the regions.
The Board adopts objective criteria for the appointment of Directors, and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive The Companys Articles of Association were amended with effect have been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
from 1 October 2008 to allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate.
The Board The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive continues to have conflicts of interest as a standing agenda item refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes and at each meeting and asked each of the Directors to identify any regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas and it is the conflicts or potential conflicts by returning a questionnaire to the Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally the Company Secretary during 2009.
The Board considered all the required skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, in a responses to the questionnaire at a meeting of the full Board and structured way.
approved those potential conflicts it considered appropriate.
Directors of the Company during 2009 were: Date of original 1 Position appointment David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 15.4.
05 Richard Solomons Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial Development 10.2.
03 David Kappler Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 21.6.
05 Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 1.12.05 Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 1.12.07 1 The capital reorganisation of the Group, effective on 27 June 2005, entailed the insertion of a new parent company of the Group.
All Directors serving at that time signed new letters of appointment effective from that date.
The dates shown above represent the original dates of appointment of each of the Directors to the Groups parent company.
Current Directors biographical details are set out on page 36 of this Annual Report.
These include their main external commitments.
42 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluations of the Board and the Directors were Chief Executive undertaken for 2009.
An independent third-party facilitator assists Andrew Cosslett was Chief Executive throughout the year.
He has in the performance evaluation in alternate years.
The 2009 responsibility to recommend to the Board and to implement the evaluation involved such external assistance.
He is responsible for the executive management of the Group and following the reorganisation of the The 2009 Board evaluation, including that of the Chairman and the Asia Pacific region in June 2009 has overall responsibility for the Executive Directors, involved completion of questionnaires and the region.
He is a member of the Executive Committee of the World Chairman having discussions with each Director individually.
Travel & Tourism Council and a member of the Presidents The Board received feedback through a presentation at a meeting Committee of the CBI.
Neither of these positions is remunerated.
of the full Board, and the findings were discussed.
It was concluded that the Board was operating in an effective manner and areas Senior Independent Director where more emphasis could be considered were identified and David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the tabled for further action.
His responsibilities include being available to liaise with With regard to the performance of individual Directors, as part of shareholders who have issues to raise and leading the the evaluation process, the Chairman held meetings with each performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Director and it was concluded that they continue to make an effective contribution to the work of the Board.
All Directors are Non-Executive Directors well prepared and informed concerning items to be considered by A team of experienced independent Non-Executive Directors the Board, have a good understanding of the Groups business and represents a strong source of advice and judgement.
There are retain a strong commitment to their roles.
currently six such Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive Chairman, each of whom has significant external commercial During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met together without experience.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, the Chairman present, under the chairmanship of the Senior meet during the year to consider the Groups business and Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The outcome of this appraisal was positive.
Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity of continuing The work and effectiveness during the year of the Audit, professional development during the year and of gaining further Remuneration and Nomination Committees were also evaluated.
insight into the Groups business.
In addition, the training These reviews concluded that each Committee was operating in requirements of the Non-Executive Directors are kept under review.
During 2009 visits to operating premises were undertaken as part of this ongoing development process.
Chairman David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
Company Secretary He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, a All Directors have access to the advice and services of the member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and Company Secretary.
His responsibilities include ensuring good Mergers, and a Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
information flows to the Board and its Committees and between The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring the efficient senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
He operation of the Board and its Committees, for overseeing facilitates the induction of Directors, the regular updating and corporate governance matters and ensuring they are addressed, refreshing of their skills and knowledge and he assists them in for representing the Group externally and communicating fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Through the Chairman, particularly with shareholders.
Working closely with the Chief he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance Executive and the Company Secretary, he also ensures that and generally for keeping the Board up to date on all legal, Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the Group regulatory and other developments.
The Company Secretary and its business and that all Directors are fully informed of relevant acts as secretary to each of the main Board Committees.
The Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive Directors, without Executive Directors present.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Corporate governance 43 Committees Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and which are subject to review every year.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler who has significant recent and relevant financial experience and is the Committees financial expert.
During 2009 the other Committee members were Ralph Kugler and Jennifer Laing.
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least three times a year.
The Committee met five times in 2009: these meetings were attended by all Committee members.
The Audit Committees role is described on page 45.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Ralph Kugler, also comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: David Kappler, Jonathan Linen and Ying Yeh.
It meets at least twice a year.
The Committee met four times during 2009: these meetings were attended by all Committee members.
The Remuneration Committees role is described on page 47.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises any three Non-Executive Directors although, where possible, all Non-Executive Directors are present.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference reflect the principal duties proposed as good practice and referred to in the Combined Code.
The Committee nominates, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Committee generally engages external consultants to advise on candidates for Board appointments and did so in connection with the appointment of Graham Allan.
Candidate profiles and objective selection criteria are prepared in advance of any engagements.
The Committee also has responsibility for succession planning and assists in identifying and developing the role of the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee met three times during 2009: these meetings were attended by the Chairman and all the Non-Executive Directors.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by Jennifer Laing, was established in February 2009.
The other Committee member is Ralph Kugler.
Meetings are regularly attended by other members of the Board and Executive Committee.
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice a year.
The Committee met twice in 2009: these meetings were attended by both Committee members.
The Corporate Responsibility Committees role is described on page 26.
A summary of each Directors attendance at the Board and its principal Committee meetings during 2009 is provided in the table below: Corporate Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee Committee David Webster Chairman 8 n a n a 3 n a Andrew Cosslett Executive Director 8 n a n a n a n a Richard Solomons Executive Director 8 n a n a n a n a David Kappler Non-Executive Director 8 5 4 3 n a Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 8 5432 Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 8 5 n a 3 2 Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 7 n a 4 3 n a Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 8 n a 4 3 n a Total meetings held 85432 Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It consists of the Executive Directors and the most senior executives from the Group and usually meets monthly.
Its role is to consider and manage a range of important strategic and business issues facing the Group.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance of the business.
It is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within levels agreed by the Board.
It reviews and recommends to the Board the most significant investment proposals.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Groups Financial Controller, and comprising the Company Secretary and other senior executives, reports to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring that information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly represents the Groups position in all material respects.
General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee comprises any one Executive Committee member together with a senior officer from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by an Executive Committee member.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
44 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate governance continued Appointment, removal and re-election IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with its major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity to of Directors discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the The rules governing the appointment and removal of Directors business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
New Directors the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their Meeting following appointment, and the office of a Director issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Any shall be vacated in the circumstances defined in Article 90 of the new Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as Articles of Association, eg prohibition by law, bankruptcy, absence a matter of course.
Additionally, the Annual General Meeting provides a useful Graham Allan, having been appointed as a Director since the last interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also Annual General Meeting, will retire and stand for election at the customers.
Information about the Group is maintained and Annual General Meeting on 28 May 2010. available to shareholders through the Companys website.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that those Directors A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented who have not been subject to election by shareholders within the to the Board on an annual basis and both the Executive last three years, must retire and stand for re-election at the next Committee and the Board receive regular updates on shareholder Annual General Meeting.
In 2010, two Directors fall into this relations activities.
Therefore, Ralph Kugler and David Webster will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual Information on share capital and substantial shareholdings in the General Meeting.
Company is set out on page 38 of the Directors Report.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders at Further information the same time as this Report, provides further information about The terms of reference of all of the Committees of the Board the Directors standing for election and re-election.
Information on were reviewed during the year.
It was confirmed that all terms Executive Directors service contracts is set out on page 53.
The of reference continue to reflect best practice.
A number of Non-Executive Chairman and the six independent Non-Executive minor amendments were made to update the terms of Directors have letters of appointment.
reference of the Remuneration Committee.
Principal Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website Independent advice www.
com investors under corporate governance committees There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and services of the The Articles of Association of the Company are available Company Secretary.
on the Companys website www.
com investors under corporate governance.
Shareholder relations The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its George Turner half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer give presentations on these results 15 February 2010 to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Telephone dial-in facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these presentations for all shareholders.
In addition, there are telephone conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results.
The data used in these presentations and conferences may be found at www.
com investors under financial library.
