84 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance report We are committed to high standards of corporate governance and in this section set out how we comply with the principles in the Combined Code, and explain our reasons for any areas of non-compliance.
The Board The structure of the Board is not in strict Board membership The Board believes that it has the skills and compliance with the Combined Code in that In accordance with the Combined Code and experience necessary to provide effective the number of Non-Executive Directors is the Companys Articles of Association, all leadership and control of the Company.
less than the number of Executive Directors.
Directors submit themselves for re-election However, the Directors consider that the every three years and newly appointed On 1 August 2009, David Weston was Board currently works effectively and that the Directors are subject to election by appointed a Non-Executive Director.
There Non-Executive Directors have a sufficiently shareholders at the first Annual General were no other changes to the Board during strong and independent presence at Board Meeting AGM after their appointment.
At the end of the year the Board meetings to provide an effective counteraddition, the Board seeks to maintain a balance comprised the Chairman Sir Neville Simms, balance to the Executive Directors.
The between continuity and new blood amongst six Executive Directors Philip Cox, Mark size and structure of the Board is kept the Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance Williamson, Tony Concannon, Bruce Levy, under review.
with this policy, David Weston will submit Steve Riley and Ranald Spiers and five himself for election at the 2010 AGM and Sir Non-Executive Directors Tony Isaac, The full Board met seven times during 2009.
Neville Simms, Tony Concannon, Bruce Levy Attendance by Directors at these and the Alan Murray, John Roberts, Struan Robertson and Struan Robertson will submit themselves and David Weston.
Sir Neville Simms was Board Committee meetings held during the for re-election at this meeting, in accordance year are detailed in the table below.
considered independent on his appointment with the three-year re-election policy.
Tony Isaac has served on the In addition to the Board and Committee Board for over nine years.
However, the Tony Isaac is also subject to annual re-election meetings, a meeting of the Chairman and Board has determined that Tony is still under the terms of the Combined Code as the Non-Executive Directors was held independent in character and judgement he has served on the Board for more than without the Executive Directors being of the Company and this is demonstrated nine years.
Tony was first appointed to the present.
The Non-Executive Directors also by his contribution to Board meetings and Board in October 2000 and continues to be met without the Chairman being present.
his other interests outside the Group.
effective and demonstrates commitment to This meeting was chaired by Tony Isaac, the Therefore all five Non-Executive Directors the role.
The Board has also considered that Senior Independent Director, and included are considered to be independent.
Tony Isaac he is still independent of the Company in a review of the Chairmans performance.
is the Senior Independent Director.
character and judgement and has concluded www Combined Code www.
uk corporate that it wishes Tony to continue in his role combinedcode.
Board Audit Remuneration Appointments HS&E seven Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings three meetings four meetings one meeting two meetings Sir Neville Simms 7 n a 4 1 1 Philip Cox 7 n a n a n a 2 Tony Concannon 7 n a n a n a 1 1 Tony Isaac 6 3 3 1 Bruce Levy 7 n a n a n a Alan Murray 7 3 4 1 1 Steve Riley 7 n a n a n a 1 John Roberts 7 3 4 1 2 Struan Robertson 7 3 4 1 2 Ranald Spiers 7 n a n a n a 1 2 David Weston 4 2 2 Mark Williamson 7 n a n a n a 1 1 Tony Isaac missed one Board meeting during 2009 due to a pre-existing business commitment.
He passed comments on each of the relevant papers to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
2 David Weston joined the Board in August 2009.
He has attended all Board and Committee meetings since that date.
85 Board training The Board has established business values Arrangements are in place to ensure that and standards for the Group, which provide newly appointed Directors receive a a framework for the Group to balance the comprehensive briefing on the Company.
interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct Training is provided for Directors on their of its business.
The Companys Code of roles and their legal obligations to ensure Business Conduct the Code has been that they are fully conversant with their formally adopted by the Board and is set responsibilities as Directors.
In accordance out on the Companys website.
This Code Midlothian Texas with this policy, David Weston underwent an includes a whistleblowing procedure.
The induction programme spread over three days, Board has also reviewed potential conflicts pursuant to which he had sessions with all the of the Directors in accordance with the functional heads and visited Rugeley power Companies Act 2006. station.
A programme of continuous training Page FIRST core values pages 8 and 9 is also provided for the Directors.
com , the Board meets at the site society  our-policies of one of the Groups power stations and briefings are also given at Board meetings In respect of Board performance for 2009, Turbogs Portugal on particular parts of the business, including the Board appointed an external facilitator regional and functional reviews.
In January Professor Rob Goffee of the London 2009, the Board visited the Groups business Business School to carry out a performance in Australia.
On this visit, members of the assessment.
This took the form of a Board toured Hazelwood and Loy Yang B, questionnaire, the answers to which formed met the Regional Management Team and the basis of one-to-one interviews between received a briefing about the local Professor Goffee and each of the Directors.
The results of the answers to the questionnaire and the issues that arose Directors are also kept informed of changes in the interviews were then compiled in to the regulatory regime such as the a report and presented to the Board.
All of the Directors results of the Board assessment were very have access to the advice and services of the positive.
In particular, the Board leadership Company Secretary and also to external and culture scored well, as did the level of independent advice should they so wish.
the Non-Executive Directors experience, expertise and independence and the balance Insurance of the Executive Management Team.
The The Company has in place appropriate contribution by individual Directors to insurance cover in respect of legal action Board and Committee meetings was against its Directors.
Operation of the Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board has responsibility for defining There is a clear division of responsibilities at strategy, ensuring the successful the head of the Company between the roles implementation of approved projects of the Chairman and the CEO.
The Chairman proposals and for reviewing the operations is responsible for the leadership and effective of the Group.
It also reviews the risk policies operation of the Board, in terms of its agenda, and profile of the Group and it maintains decision making and the utilisation of the skills a schedule of all matters requiring specific and experience of the Directors.
Throughout 2009 this with the assistance of the Company Secretary, included all strategy decisions and significant the information provided to the Board to capital investment proposals and acquisitions.
ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely The Board receives information on capital and clear.
The Chairman is also responsible expenditure projects and investment for ensuring that there is effective proposals in advance of Board meetings, engagement and communication with as well as management reports on the shareholders.
The CEO is responsible for operational and financial performance the overall management of the Group, and of the business.
Financial performance is leading the Executive Team and operational monitored on a monthly basis and the overall teams in implementing the strategies performance of the Group is reviewed against approved by the Board.
At least once a year, the Chief Executive Officer CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to the Board for review and approval.
Each investment decision is made in the context of this plan.
Governance 86 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance report Succession Board Committees A meeting of the Non-Executive Directors The Company has established the following excluding the Chairman chaired by Tony Committees: the Audit Committee: Isaac the Senior Independent Director has the Remuneration Committee: the reviewed the planned retirement dates of the Appointments Committee and the Health, Chairman and the CEO.
They concluded that, Safety and Environment HS&E Committee.
in view of the current economic backdrop, the No person other than a Committee member financial performance of the Group actual is entitled to attend the meetings of these Shuweihat S1 UAE and planned, and the positive results from Committees, except at the invitation of the the external Board assessment, it is important Committee.
The full terms of reference to preserve continuity in running the business.
for each Committee are available on They have therefore agreed with Philip Cox the Companys website.
to extend the retirement age in his contract www www.
com investors corporate-governance to September 2013 and requested that Sir board-committees Neville Simms remains as Chairman until 31 December 2011.
Tony Isaac was asked Audit Committee to lead the process for recruiting a new The Committee manages the relationship Chairman, to be in place before Sir Neville with the external auditor.
The Committee Uni-Mar Turkey Simms contract expires, to provide an annually reviews and approves the terms appropriate period of transition.
of the appointment of the external auditor and its engagement.
It fixes the level of the Non-Executive Directors and their auditors remuneration ensuring it is function appropriate and does not compromise the Through membership of the Board effectiveness of the audit and reviews the Committees, the Non-Executive Directors scope and adequacy of the audit of the annual have responsibilities for: Group consolidated financial statements.
o verseeing that systems of internal control The Committee also puts in place policies and risk management are appropriate and procedures to ensure that the external and effective auditor remains independent and reviews them and the auditors independence and m anaging the relationship with objectivity each year.
This review includes the external auditor the overall relationship between the auditor evaluating the performance of management and the Company, including the safeguards in meeting targets and objectives established by the external auditor for maintaining independence, the rotation s etting the remuneration of partners and staff who work on the audit of Executive Directors and the level and nature of non-audit services a ppointing Executive Directors provided by the auditor.
p lanning senior management succession The Committee reviews all financial reports which for 2009 consisted of the Preliminary Executive Directors holding Announcement, Annual Report and the Interim non-executive directorships Report including consideration of the Groups The Company has a policy of encouraging its accounting policies and major judgemental Executive Directors to hold a non-executive areas.
The Committee reviews the directorship in another company.
This effectiveness of the Groups systems of broadens their experience and helps improve internal control, and reviews the scope and their contributions to the Group.
During the annual plan of the internal audit function 2009 Philip Cox was a Non-Executive and satisfies itself of its adequacy, particularly Director of Wincanton plc.
He resigned from in terms of resources and performance this post on 23 July 2009.
His remuneration against its annual plan.
In addition it reviews from this role is retained by him and for the the report prepared by the Risk Committee year ended 31 March 2009 was 53,000. to ensure all relevant risks are addressed in On 1 April 2009 Philip Cox was appointed these external and internal audit processes.
a Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison During 2008 the Company replaced its Supermarkets PLC, where he is the Chairman quarterly financial results report with Interim of the Audit Committee.
Similarly, Steve Riley Management Statements IMS.
Each IMS and Mark Williamson are respectively is approved by a Committee of the Board Non-Executive Directors of Shanks Group plc comprising the Chairman, the Chair of the and Imperial Tobacco Group plc.
They are Audit Committee, the CEO and Chief each entitled to retain their remuneration for Financial Officer CFO.
their roles which was, in 2009, 35,000 for Steve Riley and 85,000 for Mark Williamson, who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee at Imperial Tobacco.
87 During 2009 the Audit Committee Health, Safety and Environment At each Board meeting, an update is given on comprised all the independent Non-Executive Committee movements in major shareholdings and on Directors of the Company.
The Audit The HS&E Committee was established contact programmes between the Executive Committee Chairman is Alan Murray.
It is Directors and institutional shareholders.
Alan is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute responsible for reviewing the Groups HS&E Reports on the Company issued by financial of Management Accountants and was policies, objectives and performance.
The analysts are circulated to Board members.
previously Chief Financial Officer of Committee is chaired by Struan Robertson These reports enable the Directors to gain Hanson PLC.
The Company Secretary acts and also comprises one other Non-Executive an understanding of the views and opinions as secretary to the Committee.
In addition, the Head of those with an interest in the Company.
of Operations and Engineering attends Time was set aside for the Committee to During 2007 the Company implemented meetings of the Committee.
During 2009 meet the external auditor and the Head the provisions, approved by shareholders at the HS&E Committee met twice, once in of Internal Audit without Executive the 2007 AGM, that allow for all shareholder Melbourne, at the Australian corporate Management present.
In addition to the documents to be provided electronically office following site visits to Hazelwood members of the Committee, regular unless otherwise requested by the and Loy Yang B, and the other at ISAB in Italy.
attendees at the Audit Committee meetings shareholder.
To ensure all shareholders are At these meetings the Committee reviews, included representatives of the external kept informed of the Companys performance amongst other things, HS&E data, Group auditor, the Chairman, the CEO, the CFO, for 2009, all the shareholders who did not health and safety initiatives and the corporate other Executive Directors, the Group elect to receive a hard copy of the Annual environmental policy.
The Company Controller and the Head of Internal Audit.
Report will receive the Results Brief.
This Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
balances the Companys desire to reduce Remuneration Committee its costs and impact on the environment The Remuneration Committee is responsible Relations with shareholders with keeping shareholders informed of the for ensuring that the overall remuneration The Board is accountable to shareholders for Groups progress.
In addition, during 2009, of Executive Directors is maintained on a the performance and activities of the Group.
the Companys CEO and CFO met with sensible and comparable basis and enables International Power ensures that its AGM representatives of the United Kingdom the Company to compete effectively for provides shareholders with an opportunity Shareholders Association.
It monitors the to receive comprehensive information on all performance of Executive Directors against aspects of the Groups business activities and Accountability and audit targets, sets the performance conditions to question senior management about The Board is mindful of its responsibility for long-term incentive plan awards and business issues and prospects.
to present a balanced and understandable reviews the remuneration levels and other All proxy votes are counted and the level assessment of International Powers financial conditions of service of senior managers of proxy votes lodged for each resolution is position and prospects, both to investors immediately below Board level.
reported at the AGM and on the Companys and regulatory authorities.
The Preliminary The Committee comprises the independent website.
In line with best practice, the Announcement, Annual Report, Interim Report Company aims to ensure that the Notice Non-Executive Directors of the Company and IMSs are the principal means of achieving and the Chairman.
The Chairman of the of AGM and the Annual Report are sent this objective.
to shareholders at least 20 working days Committee for 2009 was John Roberts.
An explanation of the responsibilities of the The Company Secretary acts as secretary before the AGM.
Directors in connection with the financial to the Committee and the Head of Global www www.
com investors  statements is set out in the responsibility Resources acts as advisor to the Committee.
general-meetings 2010 statement of the Directors.
The Directors In 2009, Towers Perrin acted as external International Power also runs, within the confirm in the Directors report their view advisor to the Committee.
terms of the regulatory framework, frequent that the Group is a going concern.
Appointments Committee contact programmes with industry analysts Page Responsibility statement of the Directors page 110 The Appointments Committee is responsible and institutional investors to discuss matters for matters of management succession of strategy and financial performance.
KPMG Audit Plc is the auditor of the Group and the identification and appointment of Contact is made principally by the CEO and parent company financial statements Directors.
It also reviews the Board structure, and the CFO.
On issues of major importance the external auditor.
The responsibility size and composition, and makes the Chairman communicates with major of the external auditor is set out in the recommendations to the Board with regard shareholders.
The Senior Independent Independent auditors report.
to changes that are deemed desirable.
The Non-Executive Director Tony Isaac is also Page Independent auditors report page 188 Committee comprises the Chairman and available as an alternative point of contact all of the independent Non-Executive if shareholders have concerns over the Directors of the Company.
The Chairman Chairmans performance, or where contact Since the formation of International Power plc of the Committee is Sir Neville Simms.
with the Chairman or the use of other in 2000, following demerger, KPMG The Company Secretary acts as secretary communication channels would be Audit Plc has been the external auditor of to the Committee.
All results presentations and the Group.
The continuing appointment of Stock Exchange announcements are available KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor has been to shareholders on the Companys website.
recommended to the Board based on a review of performance, and a consideration www www.
com investors  2010 of fee levels, which is conducted annually.
The external audit for 2009 was not subject to a tender process.
Governance 88 International Power Annual Report 2009 Corporate governance report The Audit Committee has a process in place Control environment to approve all non-audit services provided The Board encourages a culture of by the external auditor to ensure that the integrity and openness.
The Group has objectivity and independence of the external an organisational structure with clear auditor are not compromised.
Our policies lines of accountability and authority across specify the services from which the external its worldwide operations, supported by auditor is excluded and the approval process appropriate reporting procedures.
Each for all other services.
of the regional businesses is accountable Saltend UK to the CEO and is managed within the Internal control strategic guidelines and delegated authorities The Board has responsibility for the Groups adopted by the Board.
An Executive system of internal control and for monitoring Management Team, chaired by the CEO and reviewing its effectiveness.
and comprising the Executive Directors and functional heads, meets regularly to Systems are in place to meet the discuss issues facing the Group.
requirements of the Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance.
Following the Company Control procedures deregistering from the Securities and Control procedures have been established in Hidd Bahrain Exchange Commission in the US, in June each of the Groups operations to safeguard 2007, it is no longer required to comply the Groups assets from loss or misuse and with the terms of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
to ensure appropriate authorisation and recording of financial transactions.
All However, the Group has implemented procedures and systems deriving from that acquisition and investment decisions are subject to disciplined investment appraisal compliance programme to ensure key controls are embedded into the internal processes.
Risk management procedures are in place for the Groups operations, including control framework.
its energy marketing and trading activities, We consider that we have an appropriate and which are overseen by the Global robust internal control system for financial Commodities Risk Committee, which reporting and performance monitoring.
We comprises Executive Directors and Senior previously reviewed our financial reporting Management, and is chaired by the CFO.
controls to ensure they were able to meet The Group Treasury function operates the requirements of section 404 of the US under defined policies and the oversight Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the year ended of the Treasury Committee, which is chaired 31 December 2006.
Although we are no by the CFO.
longer subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have continued to maintain that standard Performance reporting and information for financial reporting controls, and this is Corporate plan supported through an annual regime of Executive management submits an annual control self assessments and certifications corporate plan to the Board for approval.
The by business and function managers, and plan for each business unit is the quantified reviews by Group Internal Audit.
assessment of its planned operating and financial performance for the next financial In order to measure our performance, the year, together with strategic reviews for the delivery of our strategy and to provide an following four years.
Group management early warning of variances to our forecasts, reviews the plans with each operational team.
we monitor a number of performance The individual plans are based on key indicators.
The principal financial key economic and financial assumptions and performance indicators KPIs are profit incorporate an assessment of the risk and from operations PFO, earnings per share sensitivities underlying the projections.
Performance monitoring Page KPIs pages 29 to 31 Monthly performance and financial reports are produced for each business unit, with Any system of internal control is designed comparisons to budget.
Reports are to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk consolidated for overall review by Executive of failure to achieve business objectives.
Management, together with forecasts for the The system can only provide reasonable, income statement and cash flow.
Detailed and not absolute, assurance against material reports are presented to the Board on a financial misstatement or loss.
reviewed the effectiveness of internal control procedures during 2009.
The principal features of the Groups systems of internal control are as follows: 89 Performance review Monitoring Each business unit is subject to regular The Board reviews the effectiveness of performance reviews with Group established internal controls through the management during the year.
Actual results Audit Committee, which receives reports and forecasts for the year are compared from management, the Groups Internal to budget.
Key operational and financial Audit function and the external auditor results are reviewed together with the risk on the systems of internal control and risk profile and business environment of the management arrangements.
The Internal Audit department reviews the Investment projects effectiveness of internal controls and risk These are subject to formal review and management through a work programme, authorisation procedures with designated which is based on the Groups objectives levels of authority, including a review by and risk profile and is agreed with the Audit the Investment Committee ICOM chaired Committee.
Findings are reported to by the CEO and comprising the Executive Operational and Executive Management Directors and Senior Managers.
Major and the Audit Committee.
projects are subject to Board review and Business Unit Managers provide annual KAPCO Pakistan approval.
Further information on our self-certification statements of compliance investment process is available in our with procedures.
These statements give Group overview.
assurance that controls are in operation and Page Investment process page 14 confirm that programmes are in place to address any weaknesses in internal control.
Corporate reporting The certification process embraces all The Company has a Disclosure Committee areas of material risk.
The Internal Audit which is chaired by the Company Secretary department reviews the statements on behalf and is comprised of members from the of the Disclosure Committee and reports any Internal Audit, Corporate Communications, significant issues to the Audit Committee.
Global Resources, Operations and Engineering, Company Secretariat and Compliance with the Combined Code External Financial Reporting departments.
There were two areas where the Board was It reviews the Annual Report, the Summary not fully compliant with the requirements Annual Report and the Results Brief.
of the revised Combined Code throughout Risk identification and management 2009.
During the year there were more As outlined in the section Our approach Executive Directors than Non-Executive to risk and risk management there is a Directors on the Board.
The Board has continuous process for identifying, evaluating reviewed the structure of the Board and and managing the key risks faced by the has concluded that there is no need to Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the change the current structure.
Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, The Senior Independent Director does not and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, have a contact programme to communicate for ensuring the adequacy of systems for with institutional investors, primarily to identifying and assessing significant risks, avoid potential confusion over channels that appropriate control systems and other of communication and because the Board mitigating actions are in place, and that considers this unnecessary.
During 2009 residual exposures are consistent with no institutional shareholder requested such the Group strategy and objectives.
Page Our approach to risk and risk management In all other respects, the Company has pages 18 to 28 complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the period of the review.
