Directors report Corporate governance paragraph A.
3.1 of the Code and generally, and free from any Compliance with the Combined Code relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or The Board is committed to achieving and maintaining high could appear to affect, their judgement.
standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and to integrity and high ethical standards in all the Groups The individual directors have different skills, experience and business dealings.
qualifications in other sectors of the economy and are able to bring independent judgement to bear on matters for The Company is required to comply with the Listing, consideration by the Board.
Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority The Board considers its non-executive directors to be of the FSA which require the Company, amongst other sufficient calibre and number that their views may be things, to make a statement on whether it has complied expected to be of sufficient weight that no individual or throughout the accounting period with the provisions set out small group can dominate the Boards decision-making in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance processes.
the Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 and most recently revised in June 2008 The roles of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are www.
The Company must also provide split and clearly defined.
The Group Chairman is responsible an explanation of how it has applied the principles set out in for the leadership of the Board and creating the conditions Section 1 of the Code to enable its shareholders to evaluate for overall Board and individual director effectiveness, both how the principles have been applied.
Where the Company inside and outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive is has not complied with the Code provisions it must specify responsible for running the Groups business.
those with which it has not complied and where relevant for what part of the accounting period such non-compliance The Chief Executive bears primary responsibility for the continued, giving reasons for any non-compliance.
management of the Company and of the Group and in leading the formulation of and, once set by the Board, implementing The directors consider that the Company has complied with the strategy for the Group.
The Chief Executive chairs the the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout Executive Board and Risk Committee, leads the executive the accounting period ended 31 December 2009. management team and investor communications and is responsible for social and ethical matters within the Group.
The General information and disclosures section of the Directors report contained on pages 44 to 49 forms part of Mr Balfour, as Senior Independent Director, is available to this Corporate governance report and contains the shareholders should they have any concerns which contact information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and through other channels has failed to resolve or for which i of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies such contact may be inappropriate.
and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Indemnities The Board As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial qualifying third party indemnities have been in place leadership and to set and subsequently keep under review throughout the period under review and remain in force at the overall Group strategy, core values and ethical standards.
the date of this report in respect of liabilities suffered or It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision incurred by each director.
The Company also undertakes to whilst day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the loan such funds to a director as it, in its reasonable Executive Board, as referred to on page 38. discretion, considers appropriate for the director to meet expenditure incurred by him in defending any criminal or In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board civil proceeding or in connection with any application under has delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, sections 661 3, 661 4 or 1157 of the Companies Act 2006 on details of which are set out later in this report.
From time to terms which require repayment by the director of amounts so time the Board also establishes certain other committees advanced upon conviction or final judgment being given comprising one or more directors with defined terms of against him.
The deeds of indemnity are available for reference to deal with a specific issue which the Board has inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered approved, such as the acquisition or disposal of a business.
The Company also maintains an appropriate level of directors and officers insurance in respect of legal actions Membership against the directors.
Neither the qualifying third party On 1 January 2009 Mr Thorpe was appointed to the Board as indemnities nor the insurance provide cover where the a non-executive director.
Mr Vyse retired as an executive director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
director on 3 April 2009 and Mr Keegan retired as a non-executive director at the AGM in May 2009.
Meetin gs The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year As at 31 December 2009 and at the date of this report, the and on an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are Board, which operates as a single team, was made up of nine time-critical.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings members consisting of the Group Chairman, four executive by individual directors during the year is set out in the and four non-executive directors.
The Group Chairman and table overleaf.
the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in 36 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination to certain of the Groups operations are undertaken in order Number of Meetings 12 6 7 3 for the new directors to gain an appreciation of, and G P Balfour 12 6 7 3 familiarise themselves with, the business of the Group.
Lord Blackwell 12 - 7 3 L G Cullen 11 6 6 3 There is an ongoing programme of site visits by the Group S L Dance 12 Chairman, which also provide additional opportunities for the T C Jones 12 other non-executive directors to visit various operations of 1 N F Keegan 53 3 1 the Group.
The Group Chairman has also held a number of B A Melizan 12 - - - lunchtime meetings with invited managers from across the A M Ringrose 12 - 3 Company and its UK subsidiaries at which managers can D A Thorpe 11 5 7 3 discuss their work and talk freely about any issues of D A Trapnell 12 6 7 3 concern.
2 J H Vyse 3 Presentations about their business are made throughout the 1 Mr Keegan retired from the Board on 12 May 2009. year to the Board by various operational managers and at 2 Mr Vyse retired from the Board on 3 April 2009. least one Board meeting a year is held at one of the Groups contract sites and involves a site tour and a presentation The Board also meets at least once a year to review the from the contract management.
strategic direction of the Group.
The Company Secretary keeps the directors informed of Mr Balfour is a director of Interserve Trustees Limited, the appropriate briefings, seminars and training courses, makes corporate trustee of the Interserve Pension Scheme, and the necessary arrangements for their attendance, and takes no part in Board consideration of any key pension provides information to the Board on regulatory and legal issues.
The Group Chairman holds at least two meetings a year with Each non-executive director attended at least one briefing or the non-executive directors without the executive directors seminar relevant to their role during the year under review.
The non-executive directors also meet at least twice a year, under the chairmanship of Mr Balfour, without Throughout their period in office the directors are updated either the Group Chairman or the executive directors being on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory present and during one of these meetings the Group Chairmans environments in which it operates.
Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of the agenda for Board meetings.
The Group Chairman also their duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of ensures that Board members, especially the non-executive 10,000 in relation to any one event.
In the case of the directors, receive timely information and are briefed on Group Chairman he must consult with the Senior Independent issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making an Director.
All directors have access to the advice and services effective contribution.
The Company Secretary is responsible of the Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is for distributing Board papers and other information which a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly are circulated sufficiently far in advance of each meeting for delegated committee thereof.
the directors to be properly briefed, presenting certain papers to the Board and its committees, advising on Board Board evaluation procedures and ensuring the Board follows them.
During the year the performance of the directors was appraised by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive The Board papers include information from management on and, in the case of the Chief Executive, by the Group financial, business and corporate issues to enable the Chairman, having consulted with the other directors.
The directors to be properly briefed on issues to be considered at Group Chairmans performance was reviewed by the Senior Board meetings.
Matters requiring Board and committee Independent Director, with feedback being provided as approval are generally the subject of a proposal formulated appropriate from the remainder of the Board.
by the executive directors and circulated, together with supporting information, as part of the Board papers.
The Board also conducted a formal and thorough evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees.
Each Procedures Board member completed a detailed questionnaire, the On appointment, new directors takes part in an induction results from which were collated and then compared with programme given by the Company Secretary during which the results of the previous evaluation by the Company they receive information about the Company, the role of the Secretary, reviewed by the Group Chairman and discussed by Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of the Board.
A number of actions and improvements were reference and membership of the Board and its committees, identified including the addition of a mid-year strategy day, a the powers delegated to those committees, the Companys review of succession management by the Board as well as the corporate governance practices and procedures, including Nomination Committee and improved procedures for the powers reserved to the Groups most senior executives reporting upon the business conducted by Board committees.
and the latest financial information.
In addition to this, visits Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 37 Directors report Corporate governance continued The Board also reviewed its procedures, the matters reserved for The committee has its own terms of reference which deal its decision and the terms of reference of its key committees.
clearly with its authority and duties, and which are available on the Companys website at www.
com and Consideration was given to the engagement of an external on request.
body to manage the performance evaluation process and it was concluded that it remained appropriate for the Board to The role of the committee is to consider and review the evaluate its own performance.
structure, size, composition and balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and to make recommendations Re-election to the Board with regard to any changes.
The committee is All directors are required by the Companys Articles of responsible for the supervision of the recruitment process of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM potential Board appointees, considering any candidates who following their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
are put forward by the directors and external consultants Directors must subsequently retire by rotation and may offer and recommending to the Board the appointment of all themselves for re-election at the AGM at intervals of not directors after having interviewed shortlisted candidates.
The Board typically expects It is also responsible for making recommendations to the non-executive directors to serve two three-year terms, Board concerning the re-appointment of any director retiring although a non-executive director may be invited to serve by rotation.
Thereafter, if re-appointed, the non-executive director concerned would be expected to The committee retains external search consultants as retire annually and offer himself for re-election.
Biographical appropriate, as was the case with Mr Thorpes appointment details of all the directors, including those subject to to the Board.
reelection, are set out on pages 4 and 5 of this Annual report and financial statements to enable shareholders to The committee meets as required and met three times take an informed decision on any re-election.
The matters discussed included recommendations to the Board for the re-election of retiring Executive Board directors at the AGM, a review of senior management Below the Board is the Executive Board, comprising at succession and development up to and including those at 31 December 2009 the executive directors, the senior Board level and Board succession planning.
A review of the executives Mr D J Paterson, Mr B W Spencer and effectiveness of the committee and its terms of reference Mr D I Sutherland, and the Company Secretary.
Mr Spencer, was also conducted.
who was appointed Chief Operating Officer of the new Support Services business, stood down from the Executive The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment Board on 31 January 2010. and remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors is detailed in the Directors remuneration report on The Executive Board is responsible for the operational pages 50 to 61. management and delivery against budget and forecast of the Group, implementing resolutions of the Board, formulation of The terms and conditions of appointment of all the strategy, annual budgets and other proposals for non-executive directors and those of the Group Chairman are consideration by the Board, the identification and evaluation available for inspection at the Companys registered office for consideration by the Board of risks faced by the Group during normal business hours.
Each letter of appointment and for designing, operating and monitoring a suitable system specifies the anticipated level of time commitment of internal control embracing the policies adopted by the including, where relevant, additional responsibilities derived Board.
It is also responsible for devising and implementing from involvement with the Audit, Remuneration and suitable policies and procedures for health and safety, Nomination committees.
Non-executive directors and the environmental, social and ethical, treasury, human resources Group Chairman are required to confirm, on appointment, and information technology.
that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and to seek the committee chairmans agreement, or Remuneration Committee in the case of the Group Chairman, the Senior Independent The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of Directors agreement, before accepting additional independent non-executive directors, is chaired by Mr Trapnell.
commitments that might impact upon the time they are The names of the committee members are set out in the able to devote to their role as a non-executive director of table on page 37.
The responsibilities of the committee, the Company.
together with an explanation of how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the Code, are set out in more detail Conflicts Committee in the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 61.
The Conflicts Committee comprises the Group Chairman or, in the event that he is interested in the matter to be Nomination Committee considered, the Senior Independent Director, and the Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the Company Secretary.
Nomination Committee, which comprises the Group Chairman, who is chairman of the committee, the Chief The committee has written terms of reference and meets as Executive and all the non-executive directors.
The Company and when necessary to review any interests a director may Secretary is secretary to the committee.
have which conflict or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
38 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 The committee met twice during the year and reviewed the Board.
The effectiveness of the Company and the Groups interests declared by each director which conflicted or may internal control and risk management systems is reviewed by possibly conflict with the interests of the Company and the the Board.
terms of the authorisations given in respect of those interests and reported its findings to the Board.
In each case Composition the Board concluded that the authorisations given, and the The committee is composed entirely of independent terms which had been applied to thereto, remained non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr Cullen.
members of the committee any two of whom constitute a quorum are: A review of the effectiveness of the committee and its terms of reference was also conducted.
Date of appointment Name to committee Qualification Inside Information Committee G P Balfour 1 January 2003 MA Cantab, Solicitor The Inside Information Committee comprises the Group L G Cullen 14 November 2005 BSc Hons FCCA FCT MBA Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 CPFA D A Trapnell 11 September 2003 BSc Hons The committee meets as and when required, has written terms of reference and is empowered to assess quickly if Appointments to the committee are made by the Board, on information is inside information, release inside information the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in to the regulatory information service in the event that it is consultation with the committee chairman.
Appointments are not possible to convene a Board meeting at very short notice for a period of three years, extendable by no more than two and is responsible for setting up and monitoring the systems additional three-year periods.
and controls with regard to inside information.
The Audit Committee is required to include at least one General Purposes Committee financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Messrs Cullen and Thorpe executive directors one of whom shall be the Chief are financially qualified.
Executive or, in his absence, the Group Finance Director.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the committee.
The committee has written terms of reference which authorise it to exercise certain powers of the Board Terms of reference delegated to it and is required to report upon its actions to The committee has written terms of reference dealing the next meeting of the Board.
clearly with its authority and duties.
These are available on the Companys website at www.
com and on The committee met 45 times during the course of the year request, and include all matters indicated by paragraph 7.1 and dealt with a variety of business ranging from routine of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Code.
approvals of matters within its terms of reference to The terms of reference are considered at least annually by settlement of detailed matters in relation to transactions the committee and were amended in 2009 to take account approved in principle by the Board.
of the latest recommendations from the Financial Reporting Council FRC and approved by the Board.
PFI Committee The PFI Committee comprises any two or more directors.
Meetings As required by its terms of reference, the committee meets The committee has written terms of reference giving it at least four times a year to coincide with the key dates authority to settle and execute contractual documentation in in the Companys reporting cycle and works to an annual relation to PFI projects where Board approval has been given calendar of actions designed to assist it in discharging to the Company or any of its subsidiaries participation in a its duties.
The committee met six times during the year.
The external The committee met five times during the year.
auditors were present at four meetings and the Group Internal Audit Manager and representatives from Audit Committee  LLP PwC, as part of the Role co-sourced internal audit function, were present at three The principal roles of the Audit Committee are: to review and of the meetings.
The Group Chairman, the Chief Executive monitor the integrity of the Company and the Groups financial and the Group Finance Director attended the meetings statements and any formal announcements relating to the by invitation.
Groups financial performance: to provide an independent overview of the Company and the Groups systems of internal The committee has taken the opportunity to seek the views control, risk management and financial reporting processes of the external and internal auditors in private and both the particularly through the co-ordination and supervision of the external and internal auditors have the opportunity to quality, independence and effectiveness of the internal and address the committee in private at any time should they external auditors: and to make recommendations to the so wish.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 39 Directors report Corporate governance continued Overview of actions As required by its terms of reference, the committee: During the year the committee: assessed the external auditors independence and reviewed the 2008 annual report and financial statements objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit and the 2009 half-year report, in advance of their process in March 2009 at the end of the 2008 audit cycle consideration by the Board, including whether they and again in December 2009, and concluded that Deloitte provided a true and fair view, the appropriateness and LLP remain independent: consistency of application of accounting policies adopted in their preparation and the basis of any major reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of judgements and estimates.
As part of this review the engagement for the 2009 half-yearly review and for the committee received a report from the external auditors audit of the 2009 annual report: on their audit of the 2008 annual report and their review of the 2009 half-year report: received a briefing on audit matters from the auditors describing their approach to and scope of the audit, reviewed proposed changes to the Groups internal explaining their responsibilities regarding corporate controls: governance and the requirements of the Listing Rules and their independence policies and procedures which received a report from the external auditors on, and encompassed their safeguards and procedures, considered the effectiveness of, the Groups accounting independence policies, remuneration and evaluation and internal control systems and monitored the actions policies and the revisions to the APB ethical standards: taken by management in response: assessed the risk associated with the possible withdrawal reviewed, prior to their consideration by the Board, the of the external auditors from the market: and representation letters to be given to the external auditors in respect of the 2008 annual report and the made a recommendation to the Board that the external 2009 half-year report: auditors should continue in office for the next financial year, taking into account such matters as the auditors considered and agreed the scope of the review to be tenure, audit partner rotation, quality and delivery of undertaken by the external auditors on the 2009 half-year audit services, the incumbent auditors knowledge of the report: Group and the advice from the Market Participants Group of the FRC on the provision of audit services by firms considered and agreed the scope of the audit work to be outside the big four auditing partnerships.
undertaken by the external auditors on the 2009 annual report: The committee monitors the ethical guidance regarding the rotation of audit partners and a change in audit partner was agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for made in 2009 when the audit partner was rotated off the the review of the 2009 half-year report and for the audit audit in accordance with the latest guidance.
The new audit of the 2009 annual report: partner was appointed following interviews with the committee and the Group Finance Director.
Any decision to open the received updates from the auditors on new accounting external audit to tender is taken on the recommendation of pronouncements, regulation and best practice: and the committee.
There were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the committees choice of external auditors.
To assist the committee with its assessment of auditor The committee chairman reported to the Board on the work independence, the committee has a policy which prohibits carried out by the committee, including any improvement the auditors auditing their own work, making management actions required, and copies of the minutes of its meetings decisions, entering into any arrangement whereby a joint were included within the Board agenda papers.
interest is created between the Company and the auditors in the outcome of the instruction, acting in the role of External audit advocate for the Company or being appointed as recruitment The committee is required to make recommendations to consultants to the Company without the Audit Committees the Board as regards the appointment, re-appointment and prior consent.
The policy also contains a set of authority removal of the external auditors, oversee the Companys limits governing the award by management of various relations with the external auditors, review the management categories of non-audit work to the auditors.
letter or equivalent, seek to ensure co-ordination between the activities of the external and internal auditors and to The committees procedures require a report to be provided to review the effectiveness of the audit at the end of the each meeting detailing the level of fees incurred in the year to audit cycle.
date for audit and non-audit services by division and by category of work and the projected level of such fees for the remainder of that financial year.
These reports are used by the committee to monitor auditor independence on an ongoing basis.
40 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 After receiving four reports during the course of the year and Overview upon reviewing the actual fees paid to the external auditors After undertaking a review of its own performance the in respect of audit and non-audit work for the Group during committee concluded that it had been effective in 2009, the committee concluded that the nature and extent discharging the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
of those non-audit fees, which related primarily to tax advice and amounted to 41 per cent of the audit fees, did not The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the compromise auditor independence.
Further details of the AGM to answer questions about the work of the committee.
audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors are included in note 4 to the financial statements on page 76.
Risk Committee The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, Internal audit including risk management, and sets appropriate policies The committee is required to approve the internal audit having regard to the objectives of the Group.
functions remit, monitor and assess its role and effectiveness in the overall context of the Companys and the As discussed on page 38, the Executive Board is responsible Groups risk management system, review and assess the for the identification and evaluation, for consideration by scope of and progress against the internal audit work plan the Board, of risks faced by the Group and for designing, and review and monitor managements responsiveness to the operating and monitoring a suitable system of internal internal auditors findings and recommendations.
control embracing the policies adopted by the Board.
In order to assist it with discharging this responsibility the Internal audit work is undertaken largely by PwC as part of a Executive Board constituted a Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee comprises the Chief Executive, Group Reports were received during the year in accordance with Finance Director, Group Internal Audit Manager, Group the 2009 internal audit plan covering such matters as: Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, Group Insurance Manager, the Company Secretary who is its secretary and a a review of the Middle East associate businesses Gulf representative from each of the Groups operating divisions.
Contracting and Madina : The Risk Committee, which met four times during the year, a review of the integration of payroll systems in the has written terms of reference and provides copies of its Facilities Management division: meeting minutes to the Board.
The business covered included: a review of business continuity planning across the a review of the commercial and aviation business: and Group, including the publication of a Group-wide Business Continuity Policy Statement, overseeing the activities of a review of business continuity planning across the the Business Continuity Focus Group, under whose Group.
auspices a Pandemic Focus Group was established The committee agreed an internal audit work plan for 2010, bringing together expertise from across the Group and which builds upon the work conducted over the previous two which formulated a plan for and rolled-out training in years, the objectives of which are to: connection with a possible outbreak of pandemic influenza: provide assurance that certain existing and emerging key a review of the risks arising from and associated controls risks facing the Group as a whole or which are common to in place with regard to the provision of post room several businesses within the Group are being managed services: effectively: a bi-annual review in February and July of, and confirm that the Groups core assurance procedures are production of a report to the Executive Board on, the being operated as intended, whether documented or Groups prime risk areas including the threats, risk undocumented, in accordance with good practice: and indicators, control strategy, sources of assurance, support the management and mitigation of key risks in management actions and a six-monthly update in respect specific businesses to confirm that they are being of those risks: mitigated to a sufficient degree so as not to threaten the a review of forthcoming legislation and the need for achievement of Group objectives or the sustainability of additional controls and or procedures to ensure the individual businesses.
compliance: The committee also reviewed the role and effectiveness of a review of the tender approval process: and the internal audit function in the context of the Company and the Groups overall risk management system.
Following a review of workplace recovery plans across the Group.
the review, arrangements were put in place to improve the information flow between the internal and external auditors During the year PwC undertook a review, on a consultancy in order to assist with their audit work.
The committee also basis, of the current assurance coverage being provided by received reports on investigations conducted and actions various parties across the Group of the risks identified in taken as a result of notifications made under the Groups the Groups prime risk areas.
The review also assessed how whistle-blowing policy.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 41 Directors report Corporate governance continued identified risk indicators are monitored.
The review identified Each year an internal audit programme of reviews is that the risk processes incorporated some characteristics of developed by the Group Internal Audit Manager, in conjunction risk management best practice and that the Risk Committee with PwC, based on interviews with operational and financial was well constituted, comprising senior representatives management teams, and the Risk Committee.
This internal from the business who have access to relevant business audit programme is submitted to the Audit Committee for information to allow them to make informed judgements.
approval, and may be modified subject to agreement of Areas for improvement included the re-allocation of the Audit Committee based on changing circumstances.
responsibility for managing the risk areas and indicators to ensure the consistent application of risk management The overall internal audit programme is risk based, and practice across the different businesses.
focuses on those business functions and processes with the greatest risk to the Group.
This means that a sub-set of all An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the business activities are subject to internal audit review the significant risks faced by all companies within the Group each year.
In any year this will include a sample of the has been in place for the period under review and until the financial reporting process in the Group.
date of approval of this Annual report and financial statements.
There is also an ongoing process to embed Following each internal audit review a report is prepared internal control and risk management further into the and submitted to the appropriate business and executive operations of the businesses, to deal with areas of management personnel and the Audit Committee setting out improvement which are identified from time to time and to the scope of the review, its findings and proposed corrective derive the maximum benefit to the business through the use actions for any gaps in the control environment that may of risk management procedures.
Control processes Financial reporting The Board has applied the principles of the Code by Based on submission from the trading divisions, a budget establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating is prepared by the Group for approval by the Board before and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Audit the start of each financial year.
Subsequently, based on Committee, the Risk Committee and Executive Board, submissions from the trading divisions, forecasts of described above, assist the Board in the application of these prospective financial performance are prepared by the principles.
Group for approval by the Board as at the end of March, May and September of each year.
Budgets and forecasts include The Board has documented a risk management policy setting the financial results, financial position and cash flows for out the prime risk areas including the threats, risk indicators, each division.
control strategy and sources of assurance.
The policy is included within the Groups internal controls manual.
The Group has documented the accounting policies to be Internal controls are normally reviewed in March and August applied by all entities in the Group in submitting their by the Board, which accords with the Revised Guidance for financial statements for consolidation.
These accounting Directors on the Combined Code produced by the FRC in policies are in compliance with International Financial October 2005.
Reporting Standards and are available on the Groups intranet.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of Each month, entities within the Group submit management internal control, the Groups system of internal control is accounts in local currency to the Group Finance team.
The designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Group Finance team translate foreign currency submissions to achieve business objectives, and can only provide into sterling using published exchange rates, eliminate all reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material intercompany trading and balances, and then prepare the misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the consolidated management accounts of the Group.
The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for consolidated management accounts include the financial the period under review and has neither identified nor been results, financial position, cash flows and projections and are advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has submitted to the Executive Board and subsequently the Board determined to be significant within contemplation of the for review.
Analysis is included on monthly and year-to-date Code.
financial data compared with the latest budgets or forecasts approved by the Board and also compared with prior year Internal audit data.
Analysis is prepared on both a divisional and The co-sourced internal audit function has the responsibility to consolidated basis.
These management accounts are submitted provide an objective appraisal to the Board, through the Audit to the Executive Board and the Board on a monthly basis.
Committee, of the adequacy and effectiveness of the processes established to control the business and to assist the Board in The management accounts of the Group are accompanied by meeting its objectives and discharging its responsibilities.
a written report from the Group Finance Director explaining operating and financial performance, the cause and effect of variance from the approved budgets and forecasts and other information that may be relevant from time to time.
The written report includes analysis on both a divisional and consolidated basis.
42 Interserve Plc Annual report 2009 Monthly written divisional trading reports on the One or more members of the Executive Board and, in performance of each division are provided as part of the most cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group Board papers.
Those members of the Executive Board who Finance Director, attend each of the monthly divisional are not Board directors attend that part of each Board board meetings.
meeting dedicated to management and financial reporting, During the course of each year members of the Executive and present their reports and respond to any matters Board or other senior operational and financial concerning their division raised by the Board.
They also management visit all trading companies, including those attend the relevant part of the Board meeting at which located overseas, to discuss and monitor performance of trading updates, interim management statements, half-yearly those businesses.
and annual results are considered, and when the annual budget and plans are presented for approval and adoption.
Since January 2007 the Group has had in place a whistle-blowing policy together with a Group response The management accounts submitted by members of the plan to set out a framework for dealing with any Group for June and December are used to prepare the allegations of fraud, financial misreporting and any half-yearly and annual financial statements.
A copy of the policy is Finance team review the disclosures in the financial available on the Companys website at statements to ensure that they comply with the latest www.
reporting standards adopted for use in the EU and seek to ensure they are clear and understandable to the readers.
Communication with shareholders The half-yearly and annual financial statements are reviewed The Company encourages two-way communication with both by the Executive Board, the Audit Committee and the Board institutional and private investors.
The Chief Executive, before publication.
accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended 89 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during The financial reporting process is reviewed periodically by the year ended 31 December 2009.
In addition, the Chief internal audit in the programme approved by the Audit Executive and Group Finance Director attended a further Committee each year.
25 and 19 meetings each, respectively, accompanied by either another member of staff or a representative from one Operational controls of the Companys joint brokers.
The principal features of the Groups system of operational control are: The Chief Executive arranges for the Companys brokers to produce periodic notes of the feedback from institutional An established management structure comprising the investors which are reported to the Board.
All directors and Board with its various committees and an Executive Board.
the members of the Executive Board also have the opportunity to attend analyst briefings.
The Executive Board and Board review of the management accounts of the Group together with the The Groups annual and half-yearly results, interim written report from the Group Finance Director and management statements, trading updates and all trading reports from the trading divisions.
The Board announcements made through the Regulatory Information determines appropriate action based on these reviews.
Service RIS are published on the Companys website at www.
Copies of the presentations given to Documented delegated authority limits relating to analysts on the announcement of the half-yearly and final expenditure which are kept under regular review by the results are also posted on the Companys website.
Larger value proposals and business acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs Manuals setting out Group policy and procedures, with through the annual and half-yearly reports, trading updates which all Group companies must comply.
These manuals and, increasingly, the Companys website.
set out the necessary levels of authorisation applicable for different transactions.
All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
It is standard practice for all directors to attend The Group has certain key areas which are subject to the AGM to which all shareholders are invited and at which central management or control, which include Company they may put questions to the chairmen of the various and subsidiary health, safety and environmental, legal, committees or the Board generally.
The proxy votes for and insurance, treasury, real estate, and company secretarial.
against each resolution, as well as abstentions which may be These functions report to members of the Executive recorded on the proxy form accompanying the notice of AGM Board and operate within defined limits and levels are counted before the AGM commences and are made of authority.
available to shareholders at the close of the formal business of the meeting.
The proxy votes are also announced through the RIS and posted on the Companys website shortly after the close of the meeting.
