Corporate Governance Combined Code principles and compliance The Board has a majority of independent non-executive This report has been prepared in accordance with Section 1 directors and a good balance between non-executive and of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by executive directors, ensuring that no individual or small group the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined dominates the Boards decision-making.
The report, together with the Remuneration Report of appointment of non-executive directors are available on on pages 33 to 43, describes how the principles set out in the request from the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles Combined Code have been applied.
of Association require that one third of all directors shall retire at each AGM but that all directors must seek re-election at The Board is committed to high standards of corporate least every three years.
In addition, any director who has been governance, and is pleased to report that throughout the year appointed since the previous AGM must stand for election at under review Invensys has been compliant with the provisions the AGM following his appointment.
The Invensys Code of Conduct which is part of a broader Compliance Programme aims to ensure Division of responsibilities the businesses act with integrity and comply with all laws.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which is defined in writing The Board and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for Composition leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He The Board is chaired by Martin Jay, who was appointed facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors non-executive Chairman in July 2003.
At 13 May 2009, and ensures constructive relations between the executive the Board consisted of two executive directors and 5 nonand non-executive directors and effective communication executive directors, in addition to the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is responsible for of all directors are presented on page 7.
Sir Nigel Rudd was executing the strategy approved by the Board and leadership appointed to the Board as a non-executive director and of the Group.
Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 January 2009.
The Senior Independent Director is Michael Parker, who has held this role Company Secretary since 7 December 2006.
Mr Parker, as Senior Independent The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and Director, is available for shareholders to contact.
advises on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board procedures are followed and that there is a good Steve Hare has resigned from the Board effective 31 May information flow.
To enable the Board to perform its duties, all 2009 and will be leaving the Company on this date.
He will be directors have full and timely access to all relevant information succeeded by Wayne Edmunds who will join the Board and and to the services of the Company Secretary.
The Company become Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 June 2009.
Secretary is Victoria Hull, who was appointed on 1 January 2006 and who acts as secretary to all of the committees of the As previously announced, Mr Jay will retire as Chairman and as Board.
Ms Hull is also the General Counsel.
The appointment a director of the Company at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM and removal of the Company Secretary is decided upon by the and will be succeeded by Sir Nigel Rudd.
Jean-Claude Guez, Board as a whole.
non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will also be retiring at the conclusion of the Role and procedures AGM.
At that time, Dr Martin Read and Francesco Caio will There is a formal schedule of matters relating to all major join the Board.
Dr Read will succeed Mr Guez as Chairman strategic and financial decisions that are reserved for the of the Remuneration Committee and join the Nominating decision of the Board.
Mr Caio will join the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The matters reserved for the Board include approval of the financial results and the formulation of strategic and annual Executive directors are encouraged not to hold more than operating plans.
In addition, certain decision-making is one external non-executive directorship, which is in line delegated through structured procedures to committees and, with the Combined Code requirement that boards should for operational matters, to senior management.
Although all not agree to full-time executive directors taking on more the directors have an equal responsibility for the operations of than one non-executive directorship.
Ulf Henriksson joined Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is particularly the board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive director on important in ensuring that the strategy and business proposals 2 May 2007 following a review and confirmation from the of the executive management team are fully discussed and Board that there was no conflict between the business of the examined to ensure that they meet the long-term interests Group and Hexagon AB.
In line with the Combined Code of shareholders and also take account of issues affecting requirement, this is the only non-executive directorship employees, customers, suppliers and the many communities that Mr Henriksson holds.
Hexagon AB is a Swedish global within which Invensys conducts its business.
At least one full technology group, listed on the Swedish Stock Exchange, days meeting every year is devoted to the overall strategic specialising in measurement technologies, polymers and planning of the Group and, where possible, held off-site.
The Board delegates specific authorities to its Nominating Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Board independence Contracts Committee.
Reports of these committees are set The Board meets the Combined Code requirement that at out between pages 30 to 43.
All directors receive copies of least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be all committee minutes and the chairman of each committee independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers provides an update on matters of significance at the Board that all of the current non-executive directors and Dr Read and meeting following the committee meeting.
Mr Ciao are independent for Combined Code purposes.
28 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Audit Remuneration Nominating 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Martin Jay 10 10 1 1 1 1 2 Sir Nigel Rudd 2 3 0 0 Ulf Henriksson 10 10 1 1 Steve Hare 10 10 Bay Green 10 10 5 5 4 4 1 1 Jean-Claude Guez 10 10 4 4 1 1 Michael Parker 10 10 5 5 4 4 1 1 3 Pat Zito 9 10 5 5 4 4 0 0 1 Scheduled Board committee meetings.
2 Attendance at Board and Nominating Committee meetings from his date of appointment to the Board on 1 January 2009.
3 Attendance at Nominating Committee from his date of appointment as a member on 11 June 2008.
Meetings Induction and development There is an agreed schedule of Board and committee On appointment, new directors receive an induction meetings.
During the year each of the directors attended such programme tailored to their experience, including an induction scheduled meetings as are set out in the table above.
This pack comprising relevant information, scheduled meetings analysis includes the members attendance at meetings and with key personnel and advisers, and site visits.
As part of does not include attendance of other directors attending at his induction Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed as a nonthe invitation of the respective committees.
executive director and Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2009, is meeting advisers and senior functional and business leaders In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board met on of the Group.
In addition, a programme of visits to the principal four further occasions, the Remuneration Committee on one business sites during 2009 10 has been organised for Sir Nigel occasion, the Nominating Committee on eight occasions Rudd.
A tailored induction programme for Mr Edmunds, the including all meetings of the Chairman Selection Panel and new Chief Financial Officer effective 1 June 2009, is also the Contracts Committee on one occasion.
There were also being developed.
informal meetings of the Chairman and the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The continuing development of directors, collectively and individually, is mainly effected through the provision to them Board and committees: performance evaluation by relevant external and internal advisers of briefings on The Board has a formal review process with discrete matters of current significance to the Group and also through components covering the evaluation of the Boards collective attendance at external briefings.
During the year directors performance, the appraisal of the performance of individual received regular updates on legislative and regulatory directors, including the Chairman, and each of the Boards developments e. g. the Companies Act 2006, including committees.
directors conflicts, and the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007 and other matters of legal Evaluation of executive directors is conducted by the Chairman significance.
The Board ensures that directors have access to and non-executive directors.
Appraisal of the non-executive independent professional advice on how to discharge their directors is led by the Chairman in consultation with all responsibilities as directors of the Company.
Additionally, each non-executive director is asked to assess themselves.
The evaluation of the Chairman is led by Directors conflicts of interest the Senior Independent Director in consultation with the other The conflict rules introduced by the Companies Act 2006 non-executive directors, taking into account the views of the require a director to avoid any situation in which he has or can executive directors.
Individual feedback is provided by the have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may possibly Chairman to each of the non-executive directors and by the conflict with the interests of the Company unless authorised Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
At the 2008 AGM, the Companys Articles of Association were amended to allow the Board to authorise In relation to the evaluation of the Board and its committees, such conflicts and to impose such limits or conditions as it an internal questionnaire based on the Combined Code deems necessary.
There is no breach of duty if the relevant provisions is used for this process.
The evaluation process matter has been authorised in advance.
involves assessment by reference to the relevant roles and responsibilities under review, the current terms of reference of The Company has established a procedure whereby actual the committees and best practice.
The results of the evaluation and potential conflicts of interest are reviewed regularly provide the basis for continuous improvement in the Boards and in any event annually.
Appropriate authorisation is procedures and the Boards action plans and objectives for the required prior to the appointment of any new director, following year.
and when any new conflict arises for a director or there is a change in circumstances that may affect an authorisation The Board remains satisfied that each ongoing director previously given.
remains committed to his role and that the Board and each of its committees remains effective.
Authorisations are granted by those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered and are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of directors conflicts.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 29 Corporate Governance continued Board committees a new Chairman on behalf of the Board.
The Nominating The Board has established a number of standing committees, Committee established a special Chairman Selection Panel all of which operate within defined terms of reference.
CSP to lead the search for the new Chairman and was assisted Membership of the Audit Committee and Remuneration by external advisers.
The CSP was chaired by Bay Green, an Committee is restricted to the independent non-executive independent non-executive director, and included Mr Jay, directors.
Reports of the committees are set out below.
Jean-Claude Guez, Ulf Henriksson and Pat Zito as members.
As part of the search a job specification was prepared and an Board committees are authorised to engage the services assessment made of the time commitment expected from the of external advisers as circumstances require, at the new Chairman.
Prior to the appointment of Sir Nigel Rudd as Companys expense.
successor to Mr Jay, the CSP confirmed with Sir Nigel Rudd that he would be able to devote the necessary time to his Nominating Committee report duties at Invensys.
Membership The Nominating Committee currently comprises the Chairman The Nominating Committee also considered the retirement who chairs the Nominating Committee, the Chief Executive of Mr Guez from the Board and conducted a search, with the and four independent non-executive directors.
Dr Martin Read assistance of external advisers, for two new non-executive will join the Nominating Committee following the AGM.
The search included a detailed assessment table below details members of the Nominating Committee of the current skills and experience on the Board.
At the during the year under review: recommendation of the Nominating Committee, the Board has approved the appointment of Dr Read and Francesco Caio Name following the AGM.
Current members Date of appointment Martin Jay January 2003, Chairman of the All directors are required to retire by rotation no later than the third AGM following their appointment or reappointment.
Nominating Committee since No director is proposed for election for a further term of 23 July 2003 three years unless the Nominating Committee has, following 1 Sir Nigel Rudd 1 January 2009 evaluation, recommended such reappointment to the Board.
Ulf Henriksson 6 February 2008 The recommendation of the Nominating Committee on the Bay Green 1 January 2005 re-election of Michael Parker and the election of Sir Nigel Rudd as directors is described in the Notice of Annual General Jean-Claude Guez 23 July 2003 Meeting.
The terms and conditions of appointment of nonMichael Parker 6 February 2008 executive directors are available on request from the Company Pat Zito 11 June 2008 Secretary.
1 Sir Nigel Rudd will become Chairman of the Nominating Committee when Martin Jay retires from the Company at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
Audit Committee report Membership Role The Audit Committee currently comprises three independent The current terms of reference for the Nominating Committee non-executive directors.
Francesco Caio will join the Audit are available on the Groups website.
Details regarding members of the Audit Committee during the year under review are set The Nominating Committees responsibilities include: out below: Name making recommendations to the Board for the Current members Date of appointment appointment, reappointment and retirement of directors: Bay Green Appointed Chairman from reviewing the performance of directors: reviewing the composition and size of the Board and its 7 December 2006, prior to which committees: he was Acting Chairman from setting the procedure for the appointment of new directors 3 August 2006 to the Board: and Michael Parker 2 August 2006 succession planning.
Pat Zito 23 May 2007 Meetings The Nominating Committee held one scheduled meeting and eight unscheduled meetings including all meetings of Bay Green is a qualified chartered accountant and fellow of the Chairman Selection Panel during the year under review.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales Attendance at the scheduled meeting is shown in the table and, with over 30 years in financial roles, he is considered to on page 29.
At the request of the Nominating Committee the have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes Chief Financial Officer was invited to attend some meetings of the Combined Code.
He has held a number of senior of the Committee.
positions in Dresdner Kleinwort and is a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional Markets Business Unit Principal matters considered during the year under review of the Financial Services Authority.
included the evaluation of the director proposed for re-election at the AGM and Board succession planning.
Role The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Following the decision by Martin Jay to retire as a director non-executive directors of the Company.
The current terms and Chairman of the Company at the conclusion of the 2009 of reference for the Audit Committee are available on the AGM, the Nominating Committee conducted a search for Groups website.
30 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Audit Committees responsibilities include: Remuneration Committee report monitoring the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, and reviewing significant financial reporting issues and together with information on the remuneration and share accounting policies: interests of directors, is set out in the Remuneration Report reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk on pages 33 to 43. management: reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: Contracts Committee making recommendations to the Board on the As part of the 2007 08 Board evaluation, it was agreed by appointment, dismissal, remuneration and terms of the Board that a committee should be established to review engagement of the external auditor: certain tenders and contracts falling within the Boards terms of reviewing the external auditors qualification, expertise, reference and due for submission to clients in the period when resources, independence and effectiveness, taking into there was no scheduled Board meeting to consider them.
The account professional and regulatory requirements: Contracts Committee was established in September 2008 implementing policies on the engagement of the external for this purpose and during the year met on one occasion.
auditor to supply non-audit services: and Meetings of the Contracts Committee must comprise at least reporting to the Board on any matters where it considers one but preferably both executive directors, the Chairman improvement is needed and making recommendation as or in his place the Senior Independent Director and any one to the steps to be taken.
Meetings The current terms of reference for the Contracts Committee The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during are available on the Groups website.
There were no unscheduled meetings.
Attendance is shown in the table on page 29.
At least once Communication with shareholders a year, the Audit Committee and the external auditor meet Communication with shareholders is at all times given a high without management present.
At the invitation of the Audit priority, and a number of means are used to promote greater Committee, all directors who are not members normally understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
In addition, other senior managers are In order to develop an understanding of the views of major invited as required.
shareholders, the Board receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and the Groups investor relations team.
The Principal matters considered during the year under review Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available included: to meet with major shareholders on request.
review of the financial disclosures in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts, half-yearly financial report and Shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the interim management statements: Group during the course of the year through half-yearly and review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function, preliminary results, interim management statements and consideration of internal audit reports and the annual other announcements of significant developments that are internal audit programme: released through the London Stock Exchange and other news review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls services.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and risk management processes and procedures: maintain regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and approval of the external audit plan and fee proposal: participate in sector conferences.
Shareholders can also raise the policy on auditor independence and provision of audit questions directly with the Company at any time by contacting and non-audit services by the auditor: the investor relations team, whose contact details are listed on the assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditor: the Groups website.
recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor: and Additionally, directors are available at the AGM for monitoring, through the Risk Committee, the Groups shareholders questions.
The Annual Report and Accounts whistle-blowing programme.
is made available to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM.
Voting on resolutions proposed separately The Audit Committee has guidelines to ensure that the is conducted by polls at general meetings and voting results independence of Ernst & Young LLP, as the auditor of the are announced through the London Stock Exchange and Groups Financial Statements, is not impaired by providing other news services: the results and proxy levels are available non-audit services.
These guidelines govern the provision on the Groups website and on request.
The Company of non-audit services by Ernst & Young LLP by identifying is permitted under the Articles of Association to send or certain non-audit services that the auditor is prohibited from supply communications to shareholders electronically, and providing.
Permitted categories of non-audit services are the Company now supplies information such as notices of approved by the Audit Committee.
The engagements for meetings, forms of proxy and annual reports and accounts non-audit services are subject to formal approval based on via the Groups website.
Shareholders are notified by email the level of fees involved.
The Audit Committee has agreed or post when new information is available on the website.
a pre-approval process whereby certain non-audit services The Company sends hard copy communications to those up to an agreed value can be provided.
Such services are shareholders who have requested to receive communications subsequently reported to the Audit Committee.
Details of the in hard copy form.
Shareholders may at any time revoke amounts paid to Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor during a previous instruction in order to receive hard copies or the year for audit and other services are set out in Note 5 to the electronic copies of shareholder information.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 31 Corporate Governance continued Accountability and audit Following a detailed review, the Audit Committee reported Internal control on its findings to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the The Board has ultimate responsibility for the establishment information that it has received throughout the year and for its and maintenance of an effective system of internal control.
annual review, together with the procedural review framework that has been established, is sufficient to enable it to review Each of the Groups businesses is accountable to the Chief the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Executive and is managed by executive leadership, who Whilst areas for improvement in control have been identified provide day-to-day control over the business operations within and actions initiated on account of the above processes, no the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities determined significant shortcomings in internal control were identified as by the Board.
The Chief Executive is currently Acting President a result of the annual assessment.
The internal control process of IPS following the departure of the former president: the has been in place for the year under review and up to the date recruitment process for a new leader is under way.
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The internal control system is designed to meet the Groups Internal audit particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, but it Internal audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of should be appreciated that, however effective a system of the Audit Committee, and its responsibilities include the internal control is, it can provide only reasonable and not examination and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
of the Groups system of internal control.
The audit plan is constructed to provide geographic coverage over broadly a The Board has established a structured approach to three year cycle, with a degree of tailoring to address specific identifying, evaluating, managing, monitoring and reporting risk concerns.
During the year, internal audit reported regularly on key risks facing the Group.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit Committee on its assessment of internal control to the Board through the Audit Committee and presents an issues arising in the course of its internal audit reviews of update at each Audit Committee meeting.
The Risk Committee the Groups operations.
Each year a consolidated review is is responsible for the system of risk management and for provided to assist the Board in undertaking its own annual the reporting of key risks and the associated mitigating review of internal control.
The SVP Business Risk chairs the Risk Committee, and its meetings are attended by the Chief In light of the changing nature of the Groups business, the Financial Officer, the Chief Executive, the General Counsel and geographic spread of operations and the need for certain Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the VP specialist audit resources e. g. IT, the majority of internal Tax and Treasury, the SVP Environmental, Health, Safety and audit work is outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
A small function, Sustainability, the VP Risk Management and Insurance and the reporting to the SVP Business Risk, has been retained VP Compliance.
During the year, its activities have included to manage the outsourcing contract and undertake certain reviewing the Groups risk framework which tracks the ad hoc assignments.
principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group across its businesses, reviewing the development and implementation Whistle-blowing of the Groups new Global Compliance Programme and The Audit Committee reviews the Groups arrangements under assessing a report produced by an external party which which staff can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns about reviewed the Risk Committee function and its risk monitoring potential irregularities, and the arrangements for follow-up processes.
A summary of the principal risks facing the Group is actions.
A helpline is operated by Global Compliance Services presented on pages 26 to 27.
Inc, an independent company, and is publicised to employees via the Invensys Code of Conduct.
As part of the new Global In accordance with the Turnbull 2005 guidance, the Board Compliance Programme the helpline is being more heavily confirms that it has undertaken its annual assessment of the promoted across the Group and made more accessible Groups system of internal control.
Included in the assessment for employees.
undertaken by the Audit Committee were: consideration of the key risks facing the businesses as part Any investigations are undertaken by the VP Compliance of the review of the Groups strategic planning and annual and any material investigations are brought to the immediate operating planning processes: attention of the Audit Committee which determines review of the enhancements to the overall control appropriate follow-up actions.
Statistics on the volume and environment: general nature of calls are reported annually to the Audit consideration of the key elements of the Groups control Committee and the Board.
In addition, staff can raise concerns processes including organisational structure, the through other means such as electronic or postal mail sent application of governance rules and systems, information to the Board or management, which correspondence is management including monthly reporting routines and investigated in the same manner as concerns raised through risk management activities: the helpline.
No material issues were reported through these reports received from both internal and external audit processes during the year.
during the course of the year: and the findings from the annual self-assessment questionnaire, which requires all senior managers, from reporting unit level upwards, to certify compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures and controls, including environmental, health and safety matters and the Invensys Code of Conduct.
32 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009
