ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Audit 50 Committee report Committee overview Composition The Committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors.
The current members are: John Ormerod Chairman Mike Clasper Archie Norman appointed 2 February 2010 Mike Clasper served as Chairman of the Committee throughout 2009.
Dear Shareholder, In view of his role as Chairman of HMRC, discussions relating to the Companys tax position were chaired by John Ormerod.
Following Mike On the following pages we set out the Audit Committees report for Claspers appointment as Senior Independent Director, John Ormerod 2009.
The report comprises four sections: took over as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2010.
Archie Norman will only serve as a member of the Committee until Andy Haste is able Committee overview: to take up membership later in the year, in order to ensure the Activities in 2009: Committee remains quorate.
Agns Touraine and Sir George Russell served on the Committee Auditors independence and objectivity: and during the year until they stepped down from the Board on 31 Internal control.
Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the table on page 48.
Throughout 2009 the Audit Committee the Committee continued The Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least one member to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The to assist the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Board considered this requirement during 2009, and concluded that the internal control and risk management systems, and to review wide range of business and financial experience of the Committee arrangements for its employees to raise concerns in confidence.
members as a whole, gained at the highest level of UK FTSE 100 The Committee has also been responsible for reviewing the companies and other blue-chip organisations, was sufficient to enable effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and making the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference in a robust and recommendations to the Board in relation to the re-appointment and independent manner.
Biographical details of the members of the remuneration of the Companys external auditor.
Committee including their qualifications are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The Committee works to a structured programme of activities At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief with agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the Internal Audit and representatives of senior management regularly Committee is required to consider regularly.
The Committee as a whole has the This report has been written to give a full description of our opportunity to meet privately with the internal and external auditors activities in 2009. prior to meetings as required.
Role John Ormerod The role of the Committee is to: Chairman, Audit Committee 3 March 2010 monitor the integrity of the consolidated and parent company financial statements: review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: and consider and make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, replacement and remuneration of the Companys external auditor.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Audit Committee report 51 Activities in 2009 Auditors independence and objectivity The Committees activities during the year included: The Committee regularly monitors the other services being provided to the Group by its external auditor, and has developed a formal policy to reviewing the Groups financial statements including detailed ensure this does not impair their independence or objectivity which is disclosures prior to board approval: available in full on the Companys website at www.
reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies The policy is based on the five key principles which underpin the and considering related accounting treatments in specific areas such provision of other services by the external auditor.
These are that the as revenue recognition: auditor should not: reviewing and approving the annual external audit process, the audit its own firms work: external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, considering the make management decisions for the Group: findings of that work and confirming that all significant matters had been satisfactorily resolved: have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: reviewing the management letter arising from the 2008 year-end develop a close personal relationship with the employees of external audit: the Group: or monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Group by its external auditor.
The Committee has approved a formal The Committee has pre-approved the categories of other services policy governing the independence of the Companys external that may be performed by the external auditors and explicitly set out auditors and defining those non-audit services that may the categories of work that they may not perform.
For this purpose be provided to the Group, including those which require the prior auditing the accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to approval of the Committee.
This is explained further in the Auditors legislation and other services provided pursuant to legislation are independence and objectivity section below: regarded as audit services.
undertaking a review of the internal audit function, its plan and The policy sets a 1:1 ratio for the annual split between audit and resources available.
The internal audit plan is constructed by taking a other fees charged by the external auditor.
Although the Committee risk based approach, encompassing financial, reputation, and broader believes that awareness of the 1:1 ratio is important, it is also of the view macro-economic risks, with the review cycle designed such that this should not act as a hard ceiling on non-audit fees but as a guide that financially material operations and areas of significant change are may be exceeded from time to time to ensure flexibility so that the reviewed in a given year, with all activities reviewed at least once Company receives the best and most appropriate advice.
A decision was taken during the year to use services will be subject to market tenders or tests and will be awarded external third parties to provide internal audit services in order to take to the most appropriate provider.
Approval is required from the advantage of the specialist resources available through use of Committee Chairman for any engagement of the external auditor consultants, and Deloitte were appointed to provide such services: where the fee is likely to be in excess of 0.1 million.
A report on the level of non-audit work is provided to the Committee half-yearly.
Details of considering internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the related audit and other services are set out in note 4 of the the recommendations made in those reports and the status of consolidated financial statements.
progress against previously agreed actions: The Committee performs a specific evaluation of the performance reviewing the results of the Enterprise-wide Risk Management of the external auditors annually, through assessment of the results of process, including consideration of a rolling programme of risk questionnaires completed by relevant senior management in addition and internal control presentations made by each operating team to committee members own views of auditor performance.
It is the and central service functions: Companys policy to carry out regular market testing either through benchmarking or a form of audit tender.
continuing to monitor the implementation of the integrated During the year the Committee considered the tenure, performance finance processes and system: and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work reviewing the Groups technology function, resulting in a decision undertaken, and recommended to the Board that a resolution for the to outsource this area in 2010 resulting in further cost savings and re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Companys efficiencies: auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2009.
The resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc were re-appointed for a reviewing the analysis supporting the carrying value of goodwill further year.
before consideration by the Board: reviewing the Groups cash flow forecasts and facilities to support Internal control the going concern statement in the annual report before The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal consideration by the Board.
The going concern statement is control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
contained in the Financial review on page 42: The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the Groups systems of reviewing the effectiveness of the whistleblowing process through internal control.
The primary responsibility for the operation of these which the employees may, in confidence, raise concerns: systems is delegated to management.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement considering regulatory and professional developments in respect or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage rather than of financial accounting and reporting: and eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: receiving reports from the Treasury department on their activities.
Strategy and financial reporting: the Group performs a comprehensive annual strategy review and budgeting process.
The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, compared with their individual budgets and forecast figures and are reviewed.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Audit Committee report 52 Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: the Group has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines of responsibility and reporting.
Authorisation procedures in respect of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, investment limits and treasury transactions are clearly defined.
Control environment: financial controls and procedures are considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process and are reviewed as part of the Groups internal audit work programme.
Risk assessment and management: management is responsible for identifying the risks facing the Companys business and for establishing controls and procedures to monitor and mitigate those risks.
As part of those controls and procedures, the Company has established an Enterprise-wide Risk Management ERM programme providing formal risk assessments.
The ERM programme is co-ordinated through the Companys Risk department and the Internal Audit function provides the assurance role reporting to management, the Committee and the Board.
The ERM programme is being embedded within operational processes and will help to identify new business opportunities as well as provide risk analysis for all new projects and businesses.
The annual ERM programme cycle passes through a number of phases as it escalates through the business.
The Committee receive presentations from senior management covering the risks of the operating units.
Following such presentations and review, senior management carry out a further risk consolidation process and then present the Companys overall major risks to the Board for consideration of the top risks which are then disclosed in summary form within the published Report and accounts annually.
Details on the Companys key risks can be found on pages 30 and 31.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: controls are monitored by senior management, Internal Audit and the Committee.
Directors of each business team are required annually to confirm compliance with internal control in their area.
Serious control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and actions taken as appropriate.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that it requires from any employee and to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent legal or professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required.
The Committee members are subject to the programme of continuing professional development that applies to the full board.
The Board is required to review, at least annually, all material internal controls including financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2009.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied with the internal control requirements of the Combined Code throughout the year, maintaining an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and minimising risk.
Approval The Audit Committee report was approved by the Board on 3 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by John Ormerod.
