ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Corporate 46 Governance ITV plc is subject to the requirements of the Combined Code on Role Description Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council the Chairman Archie Normans principal responsibilities are to: Code and seeks to comply with the voting guidelines of major lead the Board, ensuring that it is effective in institutional investors where appropriate.
This report describes how the setting and implementing the Groups direction Company has applied the main principles set out in section 1 of the and strategy: and Code and is split into the following five sections: act as the Companys leading representative for The Board: all key shareholders.
Conflicts of interest: The Board is satisfied that his other professional Board effectiveness: commitments do not interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
Relations with shareholders: and Chief Executive John Cresswell, as Interim Chief Executive, has How the Board operates.
responsibility for the performance of the Companys The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions businesses, as dictated by the overall strategy agreed of the Code with the following exceptions: by the Board.
Michael Grade was Executive Chairman until 31 December 2009, Senior Mike Claspers principal responsibilities are to: contrary to Code provision A.
Following the appointment of Independent act as Chairman of the Board when the Chairman Archie Norman as non-executive Chairman and John Cresswell Director is conflicted: as Interim Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2010, the Company now complies with this provision.
act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns when Archie Norman was appointed a member of the Audit Committee other channels are inappropriate: and on 2 February 2010.
This is to enable the Committee to remain quorate until Andy Haste is able to take up membership later in ensure that the Chairman is provided with the year.
At this point Archie Norman will resign as a Committee effective performance feedback.
member ensuring compliance with Code provision C. 3.1.
The Board Non-executive directors The Board considers each of its current non-executive directors to be Composition and appointments independent in both character and judgement.
They constructively The composition of the Board during 2009 is set out in the table on challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring strong, page 48. independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards In April 2009 Michael Grade announced his intention to step down deliberations.
as Executive Chairman at the end of the year.
As a result, the Board The Board also considers that the non-executive directors are of commenced a search for a non-executive Chairman and a Chief sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight Executive.
In November 2009 the Board announced that Archie Norman in the Boards decision making.
would take up the role of non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2010.
On 28 January 2010, the Board made a further announcement that Terms of engagement: non-executive directors all have a contract of it had appointed Adam Crozier as the new Chief Executive, and that he service, and are appointed for an initial period of three years.
At the third would take up the role later in the year.
Until this time, John Cresswell anniversary of appointment the director will discuss with the Board will act as Interim Chief Executive.
Sir George Russell, Sir James Crosby, whether it is appropriate for a further term to be served, subject to the Heather Killen and Agns Touraine stepped down from the Board with Board succession planning framework which provides that any further effect from 31 December 2009. term may be adjusted in length should that be in the interests of an The Board currently consists of three executive directors and five orderly succession of non-executive directors to the Board.
Biographical details for each of the directors are appointment of directors who have served for more than nine years will set out on pages 44 and 45. be subject to annual review.
Mike Clasper completed three years as a non-executive director in Roles January 2009.
It was agreed that he should serve a further term subject A summary of the roles of each of the Chairman, the Chief Executive to the Board succession planning framework.
and the Senior Independent Director are shown in the table on the right.
Full job descriptions have been agreed by the Board.
Time commitment: non-executive directors are expected to commit 18 to 20 days per annum.
This includes attendance at Board meetings, Tenure Board committee meetings, the AGM, and an annual strategy away All directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to day.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Professional advice and Board support Archie Norman, who has a contract of service with the Company, Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the will be seeking election at the AGM on 7 May 2010.
Companys expense when the directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
The directors also have access to Outside appointments the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who acts as With the approval of the Board, executive directors may accept external secretary to the Board, and Group Secretariat who ensure that board appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain processes and corporate governance practices are followed.
any related fees paid to them.
Details of fees received by executive directors during 2009 can be found in the Remuneration report.
Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers with a cover limit of 75 million which is renewed on an annual basis.
The Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with its directors.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Corporate Governance 47 Conflicts of interest receive information about the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information about The Board is authorised to approve conflicts.
It has delegated the the Group: and authorisation of conflicts to the Nomination Committee and adopted a conflicts of interest policy.
are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a The policy outlines how conflicts will be dealt with and the process director of a listed company.
for directors to follow when notifying the Company of an actual or This is supplemented by visits to key locations, including studios and potential conflict.
When deciding whether to authorise a conflict or regional sites, and meetings with key senior executives and with major potential conflict of interest, only those that have no interest in the shareholders where appropriate.
matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision.
During their period in office, the directors are continually updated In addition, the Nomination Committee will be able to impose on the Groups businesses and the competitive and regulatory limits or conditions when giving authorisation where appropriate.
environments in which they operate.
This is done through: The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the directors which may give rise to a situational regular updates on changes affecting the Group and the market in conflict and has authorised potential conflicts where appropriate.
which it operates through written briefings and meetings with senior This authorisation can be reviewed at any time but will always be executives across the Group and from meetings with key advisers: subject to annual review.
The Board is confident that these procedures regular updates on changes to the legal and governance operate effectively.
requirements of the Group and in relation to their own position as directors: and Board effectiveness presentations given before board meetings on business matters and Performance evaluation technical update sessions from external advisers where appropriate.
The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation of The directors are expected to take responsibility for identifying their the performance of the Board, its committees, and individual directors own professional development needs and to ensure that they are with particular attention given to those who are due for re-election in adequately informed about the Company and their responsibilities accordance with the requirements of the Code.
The directors are made as directors.
aware on appointment that their performance will be subject to an annual evaluation and that a director would not be put up for re-election Relations with shareholders at an AGM unless the Chairman has decided that they continue to perform effectively and show commitment to the role.
The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with Some of the actions taken during the year resulting from the 2008 shareholders.
In addition to the final and interim results presentations evaluation include introducing more discussion on the corporate domain and the AGM, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders including the competitive and regulatory environment, giving more and senior management were held throughout 2009.
In fulfilment of attention to stakeholder priorities and shareholder views, and reviewing the obligations under the Code, the Chairman gave feedback to the the size and composition of the Board.
Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders.
This process will An internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the individual directors continue throughout 2010. of the Board and its committees was carried out in 2009, led by the The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide Senior Independent Director.
The evaluation process included a range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
confidential written questionnaire with questions covering a range of The Company has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders issues such as board structure, board processes, board roles and on a range of issues affecting its performance both following the responsibilities, the Boards relationship with management, board Companys announcements and in response to individual ad hoc agendas, committee processes, individual effectiveness, training and requests.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will The results from the evaluation process were collated and passed to attend the AGM and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the Board for consideration.
The review made the following suggestions, the meeting and to meet with directors prior to and after the formal amongst others, for enhanced effectiveness: proceedings.
At the meeting the Chairman will review the Groups current trading.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related to simplify board reporting, ensuring that non-critical items are documents, is made available to shareholders on the Companys kept to a minimum allowing the Board to focus on key strategic and website or mailed to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies, at operational issues: and least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are to focus on succession planning and leadership development.
proposed on each substantially separate issue.
At the meeting all resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on a resolution The Board will review the recommendations and adopt new processes is made available on a regulatory information service and on the and procedures during the year as appropriate.
Induction and continuing professional development The Company regularly seeks feedback on perception of the The Company has a policy and programme for induction and Company amongst its shareholders and the investor community more continuing professional development.
On appointment, each director broadly via its corporate brokers.
An independent Investor Audit was last takes part in a comprehensive induction programme where they: undertaken in 2007 to assess investor and wider market perception of receive information about the Group in the form of presentations the Company.
The Company is currently considering commissioning by executives from all parts of the business and on the regulatory another review during 2010. environment: meet representatives of the Companys key advisers: receive information about the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of board committees and the powers delegated to those committees: ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Corporate Governance 48 How the Board operates Board Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the committees Board meetings detailed on the following pages.
The terms of reference for each The number of meetings held during the year and attendance of committee are reviewed annually and the current versions are available directors is set out in the table below.
Board members receive all papers on the Companys website at www.
tabled at meetings even if they are unable to attend.
The Board approves annually a schedule of matters to be considered at each Audit Committee: see the report of the Audit Committee on page 50. meeting and at each meeting of its Committees.
Disclosure Committee: the Disclosure Committee comprises certain Responsibility and delegation senior management of the Company.
The function of the Committee, Specific responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to in accordance with the Companys Inside Information Policy, is to ensure the Board.
These include: compliance with continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules through the timely public setting long-term objectives and corporate strategy and approving disclosure of material information.
an annual budget: General Purpose Committee: the General Purpose Committee formerly approving major acquisitions: the Management Committee comprises the executive directors.
The approving major divestments and capital expenditure: Committee meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to approving appointments to the Board: those matters reserved to the Board.
reviewing systems of internal control and risk management: and Nomination Committee: see the Nomination Committee section on approving policies relating to directors remuneration.
Remuneration Committee: see the Remuneration report on page 53.
Board and Committee membership, and attendance at meetings in 2009 Attendance in 2009 Audit Nomination Remuneration Strategy Board Committee Committee Committee day Date of appointment Date of resignation 2 Status to Board from Board and Committees 8 6 2 5 1 Current directors Mike Clasper Independent 3 January 2006 8 6 2 1 John Cresswell Executive 16 January 2006 8 1 Ian Griffiths Executive 9 September 2008 8 1 Andy Haste Independent 11 August 2008 8 1 4 1 Rupert Howell Executive 28 February 2008 8 1 1 Archie Norman Independent 1 January 2010 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 8 6 2 1 Baroness Usha Prashar Independent 7 February 2005 7 2 5 1 Directors who stepped down in the year Sir James Crosby Independent 3 December 2003 31 December 2009 7 2 5 Michael Grade Executive 8 January 2007 31 December 2009 8 1 Heather Killen Independent 8 August 2007 31 December 2009 8 2 5 1 Sir George Russell Independent 2 December 2003 31 December 2009 8 6 2 1 Agns Touraine Independent 8 August 2007 31 December 2009 8 6 2 1 Notes: 1 Independent on appointment to the Board.
2 A number of additional Nomination Committee meetings were held in 2009 to discuss changes to the composition of the Board.
3 Non-attendance has been due to illness or unavoidable prior commitments.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Corporate Governance 49 Nomination Committee The Committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors.
The current members are: Archie Norman Chairman appointed 1 January 2010 Mike Clasper Andy Haste John Ormerod Baroness Usha Prashar Sir James Crosby served as Chairman of the Committee until he stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2009 and Archie Norman took over as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2010.
Heather Killen, Sir George Russell and Agns Touraine also served on the Committee during the year until they stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2009.
Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the table on page 48.
Role: the role of the Committee is to: review the structure, size and composition of the Board: identify and nominate for board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies: evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives: and consider any conflicts of interest that may be reported by directors of the Company.
Activities in 2009: the Committee focused on succession planning for the Board.
The objectives of the succession planning framework are to ensure: board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh thinking and new ideas: the Board has the appropriate mix of generalist and specialist skills for the Companys changing requirements: and non-executive directors have the appropriate level of independence, from the executive directors and from each other.
Following Michael Grades announcement of his intention to step down as Executive Chairman, the Committee commenced a search for a Chief Executive and a non-executive Chairman with the help of a professional search firm.
Archie Norman was appointed Chairman with effect from 1 January 2010, and Adam Crozier will take up the position of Chief Executive on 26 April 2010.
The Committee will continue to review succession planning for key executives throughout the Group in 2010 to ensure an appropriate framework is in place.
