ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 62 Other governance and statutory disclosures Substantial shareholdings provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods As at 3 March 2010 the Company had received notifications from or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The the following companies and institutions of the voting interests of Company does not follow any code or standard payment practice.
themselves and their clients in 3% or more of the issued ordinary The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the share capital carrying rights to vote in all circumstances of the Company as at 31 December 2009 was nil days 2008: nil.
Company numbers of shares and percentage interests are as at the Pension Scheme indemnities notification dates.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in Shares % section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the 1 Sky Holdings Ltd 291,684,730 7.50 financial year ended 31 December 2009 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, an Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 275,411,157 7.08 associated company of ITV plc.
These indemnity provisions cover, to Legal and General Investment 200,841,036 5.16 the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a Management Ltd director or officer of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
170,580,317 4.39 The directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Notes: report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 1 Subsidiary of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is 2 A profile of shareholdings is set out on page 113. unaware: and each director has taken all steps that they ought to Share capital have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any Issued: At the date of this report there were 3,889,129,751 ordinary relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up and auditor is aware of that information.
As recommended by the Audit quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Further details of the Committee, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc movements in the authorised and issued share capital of the as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the 2010 Annual Company during the year are set out on page 110.
Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, Annual General Meeting as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 7 May 2010 Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained at 11.00 am at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad from the Companys website at www.
com or by writing to the Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of the Company Secretary.
Annual General Meeting contains an explanation of special business to be considered at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice is available on Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary the Companys website at www.
shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Listing By order of the Board Rules, certain employees are required to seek approval to deal in ITV shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Andrew Garard shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of Company Secretary securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the 3 March 2010 Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Companys ITV plc Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the The London Television Centre shareholders.
Upper Ground London Purchase of own shares: The directors have the authority to SE1 9LT purchase up to 388.9 million of the Companys ordinary shares.
The Registered number 4967001 authority remains valid until the 2010 Annual General Meeting, or 13 August 2010 if earlier.
Trusts: The Company has a discretionary trust funded by loans to acquire shares for the potential benefit of employees of the Group.
Contacts and documents for corporate governance Details of shares held by the trust at 31 December 2009 are set out Chairman Archie Norman in note 30.
During the year shares have been released from the trust in respect of share schemes for employees.
The trust waives the Senior Independent Director Mike Clasper right to dividends payable on those shares held by the trust that Interim Chief Executive John Cresswell are not subject to any share plan operated by the Company where Company Secretary Andrew Garard participants are the beneficial but not registered owners of shares.
Telephone: 020 7157 3000 Change of control All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a The following documents are available on the Companys website change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally at www.
com: vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Certain of the Groups Terms of engagement for non-executive directors: bonds borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby Schedule of matters reserved for the Board: the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the event of a change of control.
The Company is not aware of any other Terms of reference for Audit, Disclosure, General Purpose, significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or Nomination and Remuneration Committees: terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Guidelines for seeking independent advice: Creditor payment policy Directors indemnity: and The Companys policy, in relation to all its suppliers, is to settle the Terms of reference for remuneration consultants.
terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, ensure awareness of the terms and to abide by those terms
