Statement of corporate governance Statement of corporate governance Compliance From 1 October 2008, there has been a Companies Act requirement The following sections explain how the Company applies the that Directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, principles and supporting principles of the Combined Code on a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, Corporate Governance 2006 the Code.
During the year, the with a companys interests.
Directors of public companies may Company has complied with all the provisions of the Code.
authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association permit.
Shareholders approved The Board the appropriate amendments to the Companys Articles at the The Board has been chaired since 2004 by Philip Hampton.
It consists of three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
Dr John McAdam is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has established procedures for the disclosure by The Directors biographical details are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
In accordance with The Board is scheduled to meet eight times during the year, the Act, the Board considered and authorised each Directors including a two-day strategy conference.
The Chairman and reported potential conflicts of interest during the year.
The Board Non-Executive Directors met during the year without the Executive will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest Directors being present and the Non-Executive Directors also met on a regular basis.
during the year without the Executive Directors or the Chairman being present.
The Boards role The Board is focused on delivering sustainable added value for Division of responsibilities shareholders.
It regularly considers strategic issues, key projects There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and major investments and monitors performance against delivery and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been of the agreed key targets.
It approves the corporate plan and the approved by the Board.
Philip Hampton is responsible for leadership annual budget and reviews performance against targets at every of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
These and other key responsibilities are formally reserved He ensures effective communication with shareholders and that the powers of the Board.
Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and During the year the Board received updates on the investor constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive relations programme and feedback from major shareholders and Directors.
He ensures that the Chief Executive develops a strategy reviewed the funding of the Companys pension plans and broader which is supported by the Board as a whole.
Justin King is pension matters.
Given the current economic climate it has responsible for executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
received regular detailed reports on the Companys funding and He creates a framework of values, organisation and objectives to liquidity position.
It has also regularly reviewed Sainsburys Banks ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decision liquidity and the overall control of its financial position and cash making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, management.
with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal committees.
Through the Audit Committee, the Directors ensure Independence Non-Executive Directors the integrity of financial information, the effectiveness of the The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial financial controls and the internal control and risk management experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by policy for Executive Directors and determines their individual shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment, after which remuneration arrangements.
The Nomination Committee their appointment may be extended for a second term, subject to recommends the appointment of Directors and has responsibility mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
for evaluating the balance of the Board and for succession planning at Board level.
The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee Philip Hampton satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on reviews key CR policy, taking into account the Companys CR his appointment.
From 25 November 2008 until 16 January 2009 objectives and the overall strategic plan.
Further details are set he was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of UK Financial out below.
Investments Limited UKFI, the company set up to manage the Governments investments in various UK banks.
On 19 January Attendance 2009 he was appointed to the Board of The Royal Bank of Scotland The table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board Group plc RBS and became its Non-Executive Chairman on and Committee meetings.
The Board scheduled eight meetings 3 February 2009.
The Board considered each role and concluded during the year and ad hoc conference calls were also convened that he would continue to be able to fulfil his duties to the to deal with specific matters which required attention between Company, notwithstanding each new appointment, noting that scheduled meetings.
the roles at UKFI and RBS were Non-Executive and part time.
The Board also concluded that there were no material conflicts Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee resulting from the appointments.
Mike Coupe 8 8 All the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent Anna Ford 8 8 2 2 4 4 5 5 according to the provisions of the Code.
The Board is satisfied that Val Gooding 8 8 - 4 4 5 5 there is no compromise to the independence of the Directors who Philip Hampton 8 8 4 4 - have executive or non-executive roles with other companies.
Mary Harris 8 8 4 4 2 2 4 4 - Gary Hughes 7 8 4 4 - 4 4 - Justin King 8 8 - 2 2 - - John McAdam 8 8 4 4 - 4 4 - Darren Shapland 8 8 - - - Bob Stack 8 8 - 4 4 5 5 The number of meetings held during the year is shown in brackets Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 29 Statement of corporate governance continued Information and development receives regular reports from the Health and Safety Committee, The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are the Product Safety Committee and the Corporate Responsibility properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they Steering Group.
have full and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part of Board Committees the Board evaluation exercise.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Nomination, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Audit Committees.
The Company has a programme for meeting Directors training and development requirements.
Newly appointed Directors who Nomination Committee do not have previous public company experience at Board level are The Nomination Committee is chaired by Philip Hampton and provided with appropriate training on their role and responsibilities.
comprises each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Justin King is New Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored not a member of the Committee although he is invited to induction programme including store and depot visits and meetings attend meetings.
with members of the Operating Board, senior management and external advisors.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing The Committee holds one meeting each year where it reviews basis to meet any particular needs.
During the year the Company succession planning and senior management development.
During Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided updates to the Board on the year Philip Hampton informed the Board that, having completed relevant governance matters, new legislation and on Directors five years as Chairman, he would be stepping down from the Board duties and obligations, whilst the Audit Committee regularly during 2009.
The Committee is leading the recruitment process for considers new accounting developments through presentations his successor, chaired by John McAdam, the Senior Independent from management and the external auditors.
Search consultants, Egon Zehnder International, have the Remuneration Committee advise the Committee on relevant been instructed by the Committee in connection with this process.
The Board programme includes The Committee has considered the skills, knowledge, background presentations from management which, together with site visits, and experience required for the role, and a job specification has increases the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the been prepared.
The Committee has also specified the time business and the sector.
commitment expected of the role.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Committees terms of reference are available on the website Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees are followed and for governance matters.
The Committee meets when necessary and in removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved 2008 09 met on four occasions.
There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may take independent professional advice at the Remuneration Committee Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack who was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Committee on Board evaluation 1 January 2005.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 33 The Board agreed that this years evaluation exercise should be to 40. conducted by Tim Fallowfield, the Company Secretary.
Having agreed the key objectives with the Chairman, he prepared a Corporate Responsibility Committee detailed questionnaire and then met with each Director separately The Committee is chaired by Anna Ford, and Justin King and Mary to discuss the Boards role and structure, process and relationships, Harris are its members.
Philip Hampton attends each meeting.
It and any emerging issues.
The performance of the Board met twice during the year.
Formal meetings are supported by CR Committees was also reviewed.
He then presented the findings strategic meetings hosted by Anna Ford and Justin King.
Each to the Board, identifying what was working well and areas which meeting is based around one of the five CR principles and key could be improved or approached differently.
The Board concluded external stakeholders are invited to attend.
During the year five that the action plan from the 2008 review had been implemented meetings were held, relating to each of the five principles.
and it was satisfied with the progress that it had made during the year and that it was working effectively.
An action plan was agreed At operational level, Justin King chairs the CR Steering Group, to address the themes which emerged from this years exercise: for attended by the four Operating Board Directors and Lawrence instance the continuing training programme for the Non-Executive Christensen, Chairman for the Environment, who champion each Directors will be updated.
of our five CR principles.
The Senior Independent Director reviewed the Chairmans A summary of the Companys corporate responsibility priorities performance and subsequently met with him to provide feedback and activities are set out on pages 12 to 15.
This years Corporate to him.
The Chairman separately reviewed the contribution of Responsibility report will be published in July 2009. each of the Directors with them.
The Association of British Insurers recommends that the Board Operating Board considers material risks and control processes relating to corporate Day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to the responsibility.
The Board receives an annual update on health and Operating Board, which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating safety and product safety, and relevant controls and governance, Board held ten scheduled meetings during the year.
Directors and any specific issues on these and other matters which might responsibilities are set out on page 26.
It has formal terms of affect the Companys reputation are reported to the Board as they reference setting out its key responsibilities.
In addition the Audit Committees review of the system of to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Operating Board internal controls and risk management processes referred to below members regularly attend and present at Board meetings as well includes corporate responsibility risks and the Committee considers as the strategy conference.
any major corporate responsibility or brand reputation issues identified by the process, to the extent any such exist.
The The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading induction programme for new Board Directors includes a full Board, the Retail & Logistics Board and the Investment Board and review of corporate responsibility.
30 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Statement of corporate governance Statement of corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the Companys whistle blowing procedures The Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes with John McAdam and to ensure that arrangements are in place to enable colleagues and Mary Harris as its other members, all of whom are independent suppliers to raise concerns about possible improprieties on a Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has determined that Gary confidential basis.
Hughes has recent and relevant financial experience.
Philip Hampton, Justin King, Darren Shapland, Karen Whitworth, Director The Company has a fraud policy and has established a Serious of Group Internal Audit, other senior members of the Finance Fraud Committee, which convenes in the event of serious incidents Division and the external auditors are invited to attend Committee to oversee case management and ensure appropriate actions are meetings.
Tim Fallowfield is secretary to the Committee.
The Audit Committee receives an update at each meeting on all material frauds.
During the year the Committee met on four occasions, the agendas being organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
It The Committee reviews the minutes of the meetings of the monitored the integrity of the financial statements and any formal Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee and receives a detailed update announcements relating to the Companys financial performance on any key matters.
Given the economic climate it has particularly and reviewed any significant financial judgements contained in focused on the Banks liquidity and cash flows, capital adequacy them.
The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the and risk management processes.
Companys financial controls and the systems of internal control and risk management.
Where any weaknesses were identified, The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the detailed actions for resolution are closely monitored through the website www.
co. uk governance, set out the to completion.
Given the current economic climate, the Committee has regularly Internal control reviewed the Companys funding and liquidity position and has The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal considered its impact on the Companys financial and operational controls, which is fully embedded into the operations of the capabilities.
The Committees detailed review of the year-end Company and includes risk management.
Certain of these position assisted the Board in giving the going concern statement responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and ensured that any required remedial action has The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC or is being taken on any identified weaknesses.
The system of overall work plan and approved their remuneration and terms of internal controls has been in place throughout the year, up to the engagement and considered in detail the results of the audit, PwCs date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, performance and independence and the effectiveness of the overall and it accords with the Turnbull guidance and Section 1 of The audit process.
The Committee recommended PwCs re-appointment Combined Code.
It is designed to manage rather than eliminate the as auditors to the Board and this resolution will be put to risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives shareholders at the AGM.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It covers all controls The Committee has implemented the Companys policy which including financial, operational and compliance controls and restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have an impact on the external auditors independence The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that the control systems are ongoing, enabling a cumulative assessment external auditors shall not undertake and others such as tax to be made, and include the following: planning and mergers and acquisitions advice that can only be discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategic undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them: Chairman or the Committee, should non-audit fees exceed preset review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, thresholds.
The Committee receives a report at each meeting on including both revenue and capital expenditure: the non-audit services being provided and the cumulative total of regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving non-audit fees.
In the event that cumulative non-audit fees exceed objectives and actions being taken to mitigate them: the audit fee then all subsequent non-audit expenditure must be regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee approved by the Committee Chairman.
The majority of the nonof the scope and results of internal audit work across the audit work undertaken during 2008 09 related to corporation tax Company and of the implementation of recommendations.
advice and the 2009 pension funding valuation.
The non-audit fees The scope of the work covers all key activities of the Company for the year were 0.9 million, and the audit fee for the year in and concentrates on higher risk areas: respect of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries and the fee for reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors by the the interim review totalled 0.8 million.
The Committee is satisfied Audit Committee and any significant issues arising: that the level of non-audit fees has no impact on the auditors regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of identified independence, noting that over each of the last three years audit fraudulent activity and any whistle blowing by colleagues or fees have exceeded non-audit fees.
suppliers, and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses: The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and departments resources, budget, work programme, results and levels of delegated authority: and managements implementation of its recommendations.
Karen consideration by the Board and by the Audit Committee of Whitworth, the Director of Group Internal Audit, has direct access the major risks facing the Group and of the procedures in to the Committee Chairman and Philip Hampton and has regular place to manage them.
meetings with all Committee members.
The Committee regularly met with PwC without management being present, and may meet the Director of Group Internal Audit separately if it deems necessary.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 J Sainsbury plc 31 Statement of corporate governance continued Risk management Investor relations The risk management system has been enhanced and has been in The Company is committed to maintaining good communications place during the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility Report and Financial Statements.
Accepting that risk is an inherent of Justin King, Darren Shapland and Elliot Jordan, Head of Investor part of doing business, the system is designed to identify key risks Relations.
The Chairman, Philip Hampton, is generally available to and provide assurance that these risks are fully understood and shareholders and meets with institutional and other large investors managed.
It is also supported by a risk policy and guidelines on as required.
how to apply the policy, which are communicated throughout the Company.
The effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a year The Company regularly meets with its large investors and by the Audit Committee which then reports to the Board.
institutional shareholders who, along with sellside research analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company immediately The Operating Board maintains a risk register which is regularly after the announcement of the Companys interim and full year reviewed and formally discussed twice a year with the Board.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls The register contains the key risks facing the Company and following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
identifies the potential impact and likelihood of the risk at both a The content of these presentations and conference calls are gross pre mitigating controls and a net post mitigating controls webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
Where the net risk requires further actions, these are agreed co. uk investors so as to be available to all investors.
These actions are closely monitored until they are fully implemented.
The principal risks are summarised The Board regularly receives feedback on the views of major on pages 22 and 23. investors and the Investor Relations programme, and Makinson Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the The risk management process is cascaded through each division Company and give an external analysis to the Board on the views and consists of: of institutional investors and sellside analysts.
Non-Executive formal identification by the management of each division of the Directors also receive regular market reports and broker updates key risks to achieving their business objectives and the controls from the Companys Investor Relations department.
This identification exercise is achieved through workshops which are facilitated by Internal Audit.
The Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board likelihood and potential impact of each risk is evaluated and at the AGM, which will be held on 15 July 2009.
There will be a actions necessary to mitigate them are identified.
The risks and display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin the robustness of the controls mitigating them are regularly King will make a business presentation.
A detailed explanation of reviewed by the management of each division as part of their each item of special business to be considered at the AGM is included normal business activities: and with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least certification by management that they are responsible for 20 working days before the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the managing the risks to their business objectives and that the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines internal controls are such that they provide reasonable but not and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of absolute assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility shareholders who attend the meeting.
are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed.
Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out The Operating Board reviews and challenges the output from the on page 94 and on the Companys website www.
co. uk divisional risk process and updates the overall Company risk investors.
Internal Audit provides independent assurance as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk management activities described by management.
32 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Statement of corporate governance
