Corporate governance Introduction The board of directors Effective governance is at the core of the companys The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that ability to operate successfully in 731 pubs in England, the companys strategy is appropriate and implemented Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Those matters reserved for the board and the established governance framework is overseen by the authorities delegated to management are contained in board of directors, which is ultimately responsible to the the matters reserved for the board schedule, as well as companys shareholders.
in the various policies covering such matters as treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal Statement of compliance matters, internal audit and risk management.
The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, as set out in Section 1 of the The board comprises the following members: Combined Code 2008 on Corporate Governance the Code.
The board believes that the company has been Tim Martin, chairman compliant throughout the year ended 26 July 2009, John Hutson, chief executive officer with the following exceptions: Keith Down, finance director and company secretary Paul Harbottle, chief operating officer John Herring has served more than nine years on the board Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director and so may not be considered independent under the John Herring, non-executive deputy chairman and Code.
The board considers that his performance as a nonsenior non-executive director executive director continues to be effective.
He contributes Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director significantly as a director through his individual skills, Debra van Gene, non-executive director considerable knowledge and experience of the company Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director and relevant financial expertise.
He also continues to demonstrate strong independence in the manner in which John Herring continues in his role of senior independent he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
In this role specifically, he is an additional contact Consequently, the board has concluded that, despite his point for shareholders, particularly where concerns of the length of tenure, there is no association with management shareholders are unable to be resolved through normal which could compromise his independence.
John intends channels or when such channels would be inappropriate.
to offer himself annually for re-election to the board.
In this role, he also monitors the performance of the chairman on behalf of the board.
Following the appointment of two new executive directors in 2008, Paul Harbottle and Su Cacioppo, the Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors number of independent non-executive directors did not are provided on page 11 and can be viewed on the equal that of the executives in the whole year under companys Web site: www.
Sir Richard Beckett was appointed to the board on 23 April 2009.
The board considers that the collective On appointment to the board, every director is provided know-how and experience of the independent nonwith a comprehensive induction programme, covering all executive directors, during this period, provided a aspects of the companys operations.
Formal evaluation of balanced mix of skills which matched the needs of the the board and individual members, together with business and were sufficient to ensure proper governance appraisals, take place annually, conducted by the chairman of the company, which comprises an organically grown, and deputy chairman, with any training and development single business, producing clear, transparent results.
The needs evaluated as part of the process.
Site visits are board is mindful of its composition, and a recruitment arranged regularly to enable non-executive directors to see process, led by the nomination committee, is under way the operations of the business, at first hand.
to address the balance of executive and non-executive directors.
This process is expected to be completed by All directors are provided with comprehensive papers in the time of the next interim report.
advance of all board meetings and regularly attend key meetings in the organisation.
In addition, directors attend impromptu meetings with senior managers in the business.
There is a clear and documented division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive officer.
The division is set out opposite.
60 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Corporate governance Chairmans responsibility Chief executives responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of the The chief executive is responsible for the smooth daily board and ensuring that all directors are fully informed running of the business of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the company to Developing and maintaining effective management exchange of contracts within controlled procedures controls, planning and performance measurements Providing support, advice and feedback to the Maintaining and developing an effective chief executive organisational structure Supporting the company strategy and encouraging the External and internal communications in conjunction executive directors with development of that strategy with the chairman, on any issues facing the company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, operational Implementing and monitoring compliance with meetings and agreeing on board agendas board policies Management of chief executives contract, appraisal and Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board remuneration by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and senior Recruiting and managing senior managers in managers of the company the business Providing the ethos and vision of the company Developing and maintaining effective risk-management and regulatory controls Providing operational presence across the estate Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders and investors Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the company strategy All directors are provided with, and have full and timely During the year ended 26 July 2009, non-executive access to, information which enables them to make directors met without the chairman and provided feedback informed decisions on corporate and business issues, to the chairman following their meetings.
The overall including operational and financial performance.
In effectiveness of the board was the primary topic, although particular, the board receives monthly information on the succession-planning and the provision of information to the financial trading performance of the company and a board were also discussed.
The directors concluded that comprehensive finance report which includes operational the board and its committees continue to work effectively.
All directors receive sales and margin information for the company, weekly, by trading unit.
In accordance with the Code and corporate governance best practice, the board has several established committees The articles require that one-third of the directors retire by as set out below.
The board met eight times during the rotation, subject to the requirement that each director year ended 26 July 2009: attendance of the directors and seek re-election every three years.
non-executives, where appropriate, is shown below.
Board Audit  Number of meetings held in the year 8 3 3 1 Tim Martin 7 N A N A N A John Hutson 8 N A N A N A John Herring 8 3 3 1 Elizabeth McMeikan 8 3 3 1 Debra van Gene 7 3 3 1 Keith Down 8 3 N A N A Su Cacioppo 8 2 N A N A Paul Harbottle 8 N A N A N A Sir Richard Beckett 3 N A N A N A Keith Down in his role of finance director and Su Cacioppo in her role as personnel and legal director attend audit committee meetings by invitation, to provide additional detail on any relevant matters.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 61 Corporate governance Matters reserved for the board Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, The following matters are reserved for the board: compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the independent external auditors, including review of Board and management the external audit, its cost and effectiveness Structure and senior management responsibilities Reviews the scope and nature of the work to be Nomination of directors performed by the external auditors, before audit Appointment of chairman and company secretary commences Reviews the half-year and annual financial statements Strategic matters Ensures compliance with accounting standards Strategic, financing or adoption of new business Ensures compliance with Stock Exchange, legal and plans, in respect of any material aspect of the company regulatory requirements Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Business control formal announcements relating to the financial Agreement of code of ethics and business practice performance of the company Internal audit Considers the findings of the internal audit report and Authority limits for heads of department managements responses at the half year and year end Reviews the effectiveness of internal control systems Operating budgets Final review of the companys statement on internal The entry into finance and operating leases of control systems, before endorsement by the board a certain capital value Reviews any aspect of the accounts or the companys Investments and capital projects exceeding set value control and audit procedures, the interim and final audits Changes in major supply contracts and any other matters which the auditors may consider Ensures that all matters, if appropriate, were raised and Finance brought to the attention of the board Raising new capital and confirmation Reviews all risk-management systems adopted and of major facilities implemented by the company Specific risk-management policies, including insurance, hedging and borrowing limits The minutes of all meetings of the committee are Final approval of annual and interim accounts and circulated by the secretary of the committee to all accounting policies members of the board.
At the annual general meeting Appointment of external auditors of the company, the audit committees chairman, John Herring, is available to answer questions on Legal matters financial control and reporting.
Consideration of regular reports on material issues relating to any litigation affecting the company The audit committee is aware of the companys Institution of legal proceedings where costs exceed process regarding whistle-blowing and has reviewed certain values its effectiveness.
Secretarial During the year, the company made limited use of Call of all shareholder meetings specialist teams from  LLP, Delegation of board powers relating to accounting and tax services.
The fees paid Disclosure of directors interests to  LLP for non-audit services were 41,000 2008: 42,000.
The use of General  LLP for non-audit work is Board framework of executive remuneration monitored regularly, to achieve the necessary and costs independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Any other matters not within the terms of reference of any committee of the board The terms of reference of the audit committee are Any other matter as determined from time to time available on request.
by the board Remuneration committee The companys remuneration committee is chaired by Board committees Debra van Gene and includes John Herring, Elizabeth McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett.
The directors report Audit committee on remuneration is set out on pages 53 to 59.
Under the The committee is chaired by John Herring and includes terms of the Code, one of the members of the committee Elizabeth McMeikan and Debra van Gene.
of the companys external auditors,  LLP, attend audit committee meetings at the half year and Nomination committee year end.
Under the terms of the Code, one of the A formal nomination committee has been established, members of the committee was not independent.
comprising John Herring chairman, Debra van Gene, Elizabeth McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett.
The In respect of the role of the audit committee, it effectively nomination committee meets as appropriate and performs the following: considers all possible board appointments and also the 62 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Corporate governance re-election of directors, both executive and non-executive.
Internal control No director is involved in any decision about his or her During the year, the company and the board continued to own re-appointment.
Under the terms of the Code, one support and invest in resources to provide an internal of the members of the committee was not independent.
The system of internal control and risk mitigation is deeply embedded in During the year under review, the appointment process the operations and the company culture.
The board is was followed, when Sir Richard Beckett was appointed.
responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can The terms of reference of the nomination committee are only manage, rather than entirely eliminate, the risk of available on request.
failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Company secretary misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and All directors have access to the advice of the company management of significant risks took place throughout secretary, responsible to the board for ensuring that the year under review and up to the date of the procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal approval of the annual report and accords with the of the company secretary is reserved for the consideration Turnbull Guidance Guidance on Internal Control.
Procedures are in place for seeking independent professional advice, at the The company has an internal audit function which is companys expense.
discharged as follows: Relations with shareholders Regular audits of the company stock The board takes considerable measures to ensure that all Unannounced visits to the retail units board members are kept aware of both the views of Monitoring systems which control the company cash major shareholders and changes in the major Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance with shareholdings of the company.
Efforts made to company procedures accomplish effective communication include: Reviewing and assessing the impact of legislative and regulatory change An annual general meeting, considered to be an Annually reviewing the companys strategy, including a important forum for shareholders to raise questions with review of risks facing the business the board Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing Regular feedback from the companys stockbrokers the business Company Risk Register Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated to shareholders The company has key controls, as follows: Any significant changes in shareholder movement being notified to the board by the company secretary, Clearly defined authority limits and controls over when necessary cash-handling, purchasing commitments and The company secretary maintaining procedures and capital expenditure agreements for all announcements to the City Comprehensive budgeting process, with a detailed A programme of regular meetings between investors 12-month operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, and directors of the company, including the senior both approved by the board independent director, as appropriate Business results are reported weekly for key times, with a monthly comprehensive report in full and Risk management compared with budget The board is responsible for the companys riskForecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, management process.
The finance director, Keith Down, for review by the board chairs the companys risk-management committee, Complex treasury instruments are not used: decisions comprising senior management within the business.
The on treasury matters are reserved by the board committee meets at least monthly to add new risks which Regular reviews of the amount of external insurance have been identified between one meeting and the next which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such and to review risks previously identified on a rolling basis.
cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved It also reports twice yearly to the audit committee.
The key functions of the committee include: The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Reviewing, on behalf of the company and the board, Directors insurance cover is maintained.
those key risks with an impact on the business and systems of control necessary to manage such risks Maintaining a risk register for each area of the business and reviewing quarterly Reviewing the effectiveness of the companys Keith Down risk-management process Company Secretary Reporting to the board twice yearly, and as necessary, 11 September 2009 any identified risk and mitigation plans implemented ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 63
