Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 47 Directors reports Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance with the Chairman is evaluated by the other Non-Executive Combined Code Directors, led by the Senior Independent NonThe Company is committed to the principles of Executive Director, taking into account the views of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined the Executive Directors: the Committees are Code of Corporate Governance that is appended to evaluated by the senior Non-Executive Director the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority along with the Chief Executive, taking into account and for which the Board is accountable to the views of the other Executive Directors: the shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, are evaluated by the Chairman and Chief Executive, The Board taking into account the views of the other Executive The Board, which is responsible to shareholders for Directors: and the Board as a whole evaluates its leading, developing and protecting the interests of own performance by consolidating and discussing the Company, comprises five Non-Executive the reviews set out above.
Directors and four Executive Directors.
Details are Viscount Asquith is the Senior Independent provided on pages 42 and 43.
Non-Executive Director and, at the Boards request, A clear division of responsibilities at the head of the maintains a special interest in the strategic issues in Company is demonstrated in the separation of PPC, supporting the JKX Executive Directors and the positions of the Non-Executive Chairman, Lord PPC senior management as required.
Fraser, and the Chief Executive Officer, Dr Paul All Directors have access to the services of the Davies.
The Non-Executive Directors are of varied Company Secretary and may, if needed, obtain backgrounds and experience and the Board independent professional advice, at the Companys considers them to exercise independent and expense, in the execution of their duties.
In addition to Board meetings, the Non-Executive Matters reserved specifically for the Board are Directors meet in private session, both as a group clearly laid down.
The Board: sets and monitors and without the Chairman, at least once annually.
strategy: reviews business plans, trading performance and overhead costs: approves major It is confirmed that all the Non-Executive Directors capital investment projects: examines acquisition have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to opportunities, divestment possibilities and the Company and that no Executive Director holds a significant financial and operational issues: and Non-Executive Directorship, nor Chairmanship, in a reviews and approves the Companys financial FTSE 100 company.
statements and control and risk management systems.
In executing these responsibilities the Attendance at meetings Board relies on the receipt of accurate, timely and The attendance of Directors at Board Meetings and clear information, the dissemination of which is the Audit and Remuneration meetings during 2009 was responsibility of the Chairman.
All other authorities as detailed in the table below.
are delegated by the Board, supported by appropriate controls, to the Chief Executive Officer Compliance on behalf of senior management.
Throughout the year ended 31st December 2009, the Company has maintained policies and procedures Evaluation of the performance of Directors, the that ensured compliance with the code provisions Board and its committees is undertaken as follows: set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and the the Executive Directors are evaluated by the Nonrelated Financial Services Authority Listing Rule Executive Directors in informal session: the Board meetings 19.01.09 20.03.09 02.06.09 24.08.09 14.10.09 Lord Fraser phone Viscount Asquith phone Nigel Moore Michel-Marc Delcommune Dipesh Shah Paul Davies Bruce Burrows Martin Miller Peter Dixon 48 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Audit Committee meetings 20.03.09 24.08.09 Nigel Moore Michel-Marc Delcommune Dipesh Shah Remuneration Committee meetings 19.01.09 20.03.09 14.10.09 Dipesh Shah Viscount Asquith Nigel Moore disclosure requirements.
The Listing Rules of the UK The Executive Directors have undertaken a review Listing Authority require that companies report on of the independence of each of the Non-Executive the extent to which they comply with the Principles Directors and Chairman.
The review addressed of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
the matters highlighted at Section A.
3.1 of the The Board believes the Company has been in full Code, which could appear to affect a Directors compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 judgment.
One specific matter addressed was that of the Combined Code with the following exception: Lord Fraser and Viscount Asquith have both served on the Board for more than nine years.
7.2 The terms of appointment of the NonFollowing the review, the Executive Directors do Executive Directors are set out in their service not consider that this matter in any way influences contracts, which for Lord Fraser and Viscount the independent judgment of Lord Fraser or Asquith are dated 1st January 2002, for Nigel Viscount Asquith.
Accordingly the Executive Moore is dated 12th July 2007, and for Michel Directors believe each of the Non-Executive Marc Delcommune and Dipesh Shah are dated Directors and Chairman to be independent in 1st June 2008 and include a termination notice of accordance with Section A 3.1 of the Code.
three months by either party.
However, the service Additionally, after twelve years of distinguished contracts are for an indefinite term, not a finite service to the Company Lord Fraser has notified term, subject to re-election on an as required his intention to hand on his responsibilities and basis.
The Board continues to believe this is has initiated the search for his successor.
appropriate given the company size, NonExecutive skill set, and evaluation of performance Audit Committee and independence on an ongoing basis with The Audit Committee currently comprises Nigel regards to Non-Executives.
As stated in the 2008 Moore, Dipesh Shah and Michel-Marc Delcommune.
annual report, the Company contracted Mercer to The Committee is chaired by Mr Moore, who as a review the remuneration of Non-Executive former audit partner with Ernst & Young LLP Directors, including the Chairman.
Mercers possesses relevant financial experience.
He also report included a review of the alignment of JKXs chairs the Audit Committee of four other UK listed Non-Executive remuneration with best practice companies, and maintains a regular pattern of corporate governance.
Despite the review attendance at relevant seminars and courses.
confirming that the unspecified term of appointment was not regarded as corporate best The Audit Committee, which has Terms of Reference practice, the Company decided then, and agreed by the Board and available to shareholders continues to believe, the unspecified term on request, aims to meet at least three times a year continues to be reasonable and the Non-Executive as a combination of formal meetings, site visits and contracts remain unchanged in this regard.
audit closing meetings attended by the Chairman for operating subsidiaries.
The Committee: reviews In considering that the Company is, other than as the Companys accounting policies: monitors the noted above, in full compliance, the Board notes integrity of the financial statements of the Company that following the 1st June 2008 appointment of and any announcements relating to the Companys two additional Non-Executive Directors, Michelfinancial performance, reviewing significant financial Marc Delcommune and Dipesh Shah, excluding reporting judgements contained in them: reviews the the Chairman, independent Non-Executive Companys internal financial controls: reviews Directors comprise 50% of the Board, given the internal control and risk management systems and Board also considers that the four other Noncompliance procedures: reports to the Board any Executive Directors are wholly independent.
matters upon which it considers actions or improvement are required, with associated Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 49 Directors reports recommendations as to steps to be taken: and During 2009 the Remuneration Committee met three makes recommendations to the Board, for it to put times with each of the members attending each of to shareholders for their approval in general the meetings.
meeting, in relation to the appointment, reThe Remuneration Committee employs the services appointment and removal of the external auditor and of Kepler as remuneration consultants on an as to approve the remuneration and terms of required basis.
Kepler have no other connection with engagement of the external auditor.
Committee met twice with each Committee member attending all meetings.
Meetings are attended, by No Director is involved in deciding his own invitation, by the Chief Executive Officer and the remuneration.
The report of the Directors remuneration, which The Audit Committee reviews each of the Companys involves details of the Directors interest in options subsidiaries, interests and activities at least once a together with information on service contracts, is set year.
Site visits to significant operations are also out on pages 52 to 66. undertaken by Committee members on a frequent The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the basis.
Revised Combined Code, specifically Section B that The Audit Committee maintains an objective and addresses the level, make up and procedural professional relationship with the Companys auditors, aspects of remuneration.
The Remuneration  LLP, who have been Committee considers that it complies with all the auditors to the Group since 2006, and meets in private provisions and practices identified.
session with them on a periodic basis.
From time to time, the auditor is requested to perform non-audit Nomination Committee engagements for the Group.
In such instances the The members of the Nomination Committee are continued objectivity and independence of the auditors Lord Fraser Chairman, Viscount Asquith and Mr in their capacity of auditor is an objective of the Group.
The Nomination Committee did not To meet this objective the Audit Committee is meet formally in 2009. delegated the role of vetting the appointment of the Separate to the Nomination Committee, the Board auditor on specific engagements including discusses the skill set and experience of the considerations of materiality and, where necessary, individual Board members, the need for additional requiring a competitive tender for such work.
appointments, succession planning and the need for The Company promotes a culture of openness and progressive refreshing of the Board.
The most recent encourages staff to raise any concerns of possible comprehensive review was undertaken in 2005. improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, if necessary in confidence.
The Audit Internal control Committee has reviewed arrangements for such The Board is responsible for identifying and concerns to be raised, investigated and if necessary evaluating the major business risks faced by the followed up.
Company and for determining and monitoring the appropriate course of action to manage these risks.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Revised The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Combined Code, specifically Section C that addresses financial statements and announcements, reviews audit committee aspects, and considers that it the Companys internal control processes and risk complies with all the provisions identified apart from management systems and reports its conclusions to the provision concerning the need to have a dedicated the Board.
internal audit function, which is not established for the reasons listed below.
Areas of non-compliance in The Board regularly conducts reviews, and has addition to Section C are listed above.
reviewed, for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 2009 Annual Report and Remuneration Committee Accounts, the effectiveness of the Companys The Remuneration Committee currently comprises systems of internal control and risk management.
the three Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by It has concluded that the Companys procedures, Dipesh Shah.
The Chief Executive Officer attends policies and systems are appropriate and suitable to meetings by invitation.
enable the Board to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets, and comply The Remuneration Committee, which has terms of with Turnbull Guidance.
reference agreed by the Board and available to shareholders on request, meets at least twice a year, The Audit Committee annually reviews, and has to assist the Board in determining the remuneration reviewed for 2009, the need for a dedicated internal arrangements and contracts of the Directors and audit function.
As noted above, it has recommended senior employees.
to the Board that, due to the scale and geographic 50 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 distribution of the Companys licences and operating Financial reporting interests, the Board continues to be best served by The Company maintains an effective and reliable using external specialist assistance on dedicated accounting and management information system.
business and financial risk areas to supplement the The Board receives a monthly report that monitors: Companys own risk analysis.
The process and actual performance against budget and forecast for systems of internal control are designed to manage oil and gas production: sales and costs: and provides rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Board with information on issues including business objectives and can only provide reasonable debtors, the cash position, cashflow forecasting and and not absolute assurance against material the financial implications of key sensitivities misstatement or loss.
including changes in commodity prices and exchange rates.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal Budgetary process control, are described below.
In addition, the Each year the Board approves the annual budget Companys independent auditors present reports to with key risk areas identified.
Performance is the Audit Committee, which include any significant monitored and relevant action taken throughout the internal control matters that they have identified as year through the monthly reporting to the Board of part of their normal audit work.
variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the year together with information on the key risk areas.
Business risk A process is in place to enable the Board to identify Corporate accounting and procedures manual the major business, operational, financial and Responsibility levels are communicated throughout compliance risks faced by the Company and to the Group as part of the corporate accounting and determine the appropriate course of action to procedures manual.
This sets out, inter alia, the manage and monitor these risks.
This process is general ethos of the Group, delegation of authority regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and reported to the Board as appropriate.
control procedures together with accounting policies The Company identifies and distinguishes High and procedures.
The manual, which includes policies Profile Events, i. e. those risks that could have common to all Group companies along with company material effect on the Companys financial position specific procedures and controls is reviewed or reputation, from other business risks that it regularly and updated as required.
assesses and considers to be acceptable for the The application of internal financial control and Company to bear taking into account the industry operational procedures are reviewed during visits to and the markets in which it operates.
the overseas offices by Head Office staff.
The Audit Committee reviews annually the Companys subsidiaries and investments from a Quality and integrity of personnel business, operational and financial risk perspective The integrity and competence of personnel is to ensure that the system of internal control and ensured through high recruitment standards and accountability is embedded in the operations of the subsequent training courses.
Members of the Audit Committee visit are seen as an essential part of the control subsidiaries and operations on a regular basis.
The ethical standards expected of staff are communicated through the corporate accounting The Audit Committee considers that managers are and procedures manual.
conscious of the need to identify and assess risks in their operations and the effect of changes in the Investment appraisal business environment, to respond quickly and Capital investment is regulated by the budgetary appropriately and to report immediately any process and authorisation levels.
significant control failings and weaknesses that are identified, together with details of corrective action.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Management structure Capital expenditures are reviewed with major The Board has overall responsibility for the Group overruns in terms of cost and time being and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically investigated.
reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive The internal financial control situation is reported to has been given responsibility and is accountable for the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls as it operated during the year and reported its conclusions to the Board.
Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-24 25-33 34-41 42-66 67-116 51 Directors reports Communication with shareholders Extensive information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Half-yearly Report which are sent to shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders for which the Board as a whole has responsibility.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the Group are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress of the Group.
Going concern After making enquiries and taking into consideration the Ukrainian and Russian business environments, as detailed in note 28 of the accounts, together with reviewing the Groups budget for 2010 and its medium term plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
By order of the Board Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC Chairman 12th April 2010
