Governance go online at www.
com 39 : Governance Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall performance and integrity.
The following section explains how the company has applied the main principles outlined in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
The directors consider that the company has fully complied with the provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends beyond regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
What is the role of the Board?
Board of Directors The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its consideration and approval.
These include responsibility for Group strategy, the annual budget, significant acquisitions and the overall Sir Ian system of internal control.
Executive management is responsible for the Allister Wood John Langlands Ogren implementation of Board decisions in these areas and all other aspects of managing the business.
Alan Semple Neil Smith What is the composition of the Board?
The Board Les During the year the Board comprised 14 directors, made up of seven Thomas and who is on executive and seven non-executive directors.
At 31 December 2009 which Committee R Monti retired from the Board as a non-executive director and on John 24 February 2010 M Contie joined the Board as a non-executive Mark Nominations Morgan Papworth director.
Committee Audit A clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Committee Mike has been agreed by the Board, in compliance with the Combined Straughen Ian Code.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness Remuneration Marchant of the Board.
He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are Committee appropriate and is responsible for facilitating that all directors actively Jim Renfroe contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group David Woodward and implementation of the Group strategy, develops proposals for Michel Board approval, and ensures that a regular dialogue with shareholders Contie Dr Chris is maintained.
Executive Board Members report directly to the Chief Joined Roberto Masters 24 Feb 10 Executive.
Monti Retired Dr C Masters is the senior independent director.
The senior 31 Dec 09 independent director is available to shareholders on request.
Are the Board members independent?
After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief biographies of the directors appear on pages 36 and 37.
The Code requires the Board to state its reasons for considering a non-executive director to be independent if he has served for more than nine years.
J C Morgan, who has served as a non-executive director for more than nine years, will be considered for re-election at the 2010 AGM.
indd 39 01 04 2010 14:07 40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate governance continued The Board believes that independence should not be determined What training do the Board members receive?
simply by length of tenure.
Rather, the Board considers it important The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board for the individual concerned to possess the personal characteristics meetings and briefings arranged on issues relating to corporate necessary to demonstrate independent thought and therefore act in governance.
Arrangements are in place for newly appointed directors to the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
In particular, an undertake an induction process designed to develop their knowledge individual should openly challenge the views of the other directors and and understanding of the Groups business.
This includes briefing senior management.
It is also beneficial that each director has an sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to Group operating sites in-depth experience of the relevant sector and a detailed knowledge and discussion of relevant business issues.
Upon their appointment, of the Groups strategy.
directors are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations as directors of a listed company under the Companies Act 2006.
Therefore, whilst J C Morgans length of service exceeds nine years, the Board has carefully reviewed the matter, without J C Morgan being All directors are encouraged to attend relevant external seminars.
present, and is of the view that J C Morgan should be considered independent.
J C Morgans experience and knowledge of the energy There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional sector and long term perspective on the Groups activities and strategy advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the continue to be valuable to the Group and contribute significantly to the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Boards deliberations.
In addition, the company is not J C Morgans the Boards procedures are followed.
primary source of income and he does not participate in any of its bonus, option or incentive schemes.
The Board believes that there is How is the Boards performance evaluated?
no indication of his length of service having any adverse impact on his In 2009 the Board completed a formal evaluation of its own judgement or independence.
performance and of its committees, individual directors, and of the Chairman.
This involved directors completing detailed questionnaires, Other than J C Morgan who is subject to annual re-election, all the results of which were analysed by the Company Secretary.
A directors, executive and non-executive, must submit themselves presentation of the results was made to the full Board.
The results were for election at the AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, discussed both at a full Board meeting and separate meetings between for re-election at least once every three years.
each director and the Chairman.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, are responsible for the performance How does the Board discharge its responsibilities?
evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the There were seven Board meetings during 2009.
Four of the meetings executive directors.
were scheduled as two-day sessions and were held in either Aberdeen or Houston.
How are conflicts of interest dealt with?
The Board requires directors to declare any appointments or other Safety is always the first item on the agenda at Board meetings.
The situations which would amount to a possible conflict of interest.
The Board received detailed presentations from senior management within Board has procedures in place to deal with, and if necessary, approve the Groups businesses during the year, each including updates on any such conflicts.
No such conflicts of interest were declared in 2009. health and safety performance.
Other presentations included reports on the Groups internal control and risk management systems and a presentation on clean energy.
In addition to Board meetings the Board receives a monthly report which gives a summary of HSE, financial and operational matters and a more detailed quarterly report including reports on HSE, operations, human resources, legal and ethics issues, investor relations and detailed financial information, including financial projections.
The directors have access, via a secure intranet site, to presentations from the Groups brokers which contain investors feedback, copies of relevant regulations, analyst research and appropriate administrative information.
On a monthly basis the executive directors attend Group Board Executive meetings which include reports and discussions on HSE, operational issues, finance, legal, investor relations and human resources matters.
In addition, divisional directors conduct quarterly review meetings with senior managers of all of the businesses within their division.
These meetings are also normally attended by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Back - Final2.
com 41 : Committees of the Board Board Audit Remuneration Nominations The Board has delegated some of its Committee Committee Committee responsibilities to committees the Number of meetings Audit Committee, the Remuneration 7 3 3 3 held in 2009 Committee and the Nominations Executive Directors Committee.
A summary of the work of the Sir Ian Wood 7 3 Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee is set out below and the A G Langlands 7 report of the Remuneration Committee is A G Semple 7 included in the Directors Remuneration M Straughen 7 Report on pages 45-54.
L J Thomas 6 J B Renfroe 6 The Committees terms of reference are M H Papworth 7 available on the Groups website.
Non-executive Directors I D Marchant 6 3 3 Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees is Dr C Masters 7 3 3 summarised here.
R Monti 6 2 3 J C Morgan 6 3 3 3 On each occasion when a director was D J Ogren 7 3 3 unable to attend a Board meeting, they N H Smith 6 3 3 provided the reasons in advance to the D Woodward 7 3 3 Chairman and were provided with copies of all Board papers, on which they were given the opportunity to comment.
The dates of future Board meetings have now been agreed until the end of 2012.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending candidates to the Board and ensuring succession plans are in place.
The Nominations Committee aims to promote high standards of corporate Sir Ian Wood, governance by ensuring that the balance Chairman, of skills, knowledge and experience of the Nominations Committee Board both now and in the future promotes 1 long term value for shareholders.
Who is on the Nominations Committee?
How does the Committee discharge its responsibilities?
The Nominations Committee comprised the Chairman and all of the The Committee meets at least once a year, and has written terms of independent non-executive directors as follows: reference setting out its roles and responsibilities.
Sir Ian Wood Chairman I D Marchant Main responsibilities: Dr C Masters reviewing Board structure, size and composition R Monti making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes J C Morgan identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board D J Ogren filling Board vacancies N H Smith ensuring succession plans are in place D Woodward The Committee met three times during 2009.
indd 41 01 04 2010 14:07 42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and internal and external audit functions.
The Audit Committee aims to promote high Dr Christopher Masters, Chairman, standards of corporate governance by Audit Committee ensuring robust and effective financial and 1 audit controls.
Who is on the Audit Committee?
Re-appointment of external auditors The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive  LLP PwC have been the Groups external directors: Dr C Masters Chairman, J C Morgan, I D Marchant auditors since the Group became a publicly listed company in 2002. and D Woodward.
In line with the requirements of the Code, the The ongoing effectiveness of the external auditors is considered Board considers that I D Marchant has recent and relevant financial by the Audit Committee on an annual basis as described below.
Notwithstanding the length of their tenure, to date the Committee has been satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditors and have The Committee meets at least three times a year, and has written terms not considered it necessary to require PwC to tender for the external of reference setting out its roles and responsibilities, including: audit work.
The re-appointment of the external auditors is submitted for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls approval by the shareholders annually at the Annual General Meeting.
monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and its interim and preliminary announcements To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal has reviewed the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit audit function lead partner, the arrangements for ensuring the independence and reviewing the terms of engagement and independence of the objectivity of the external auditors, the nature and level of services external auditors provided, including the robustness of the external auditors handling of assessing the audit process and the effectiveness of the external key judgmental areas and the quality of the external auditors interaction auditors to supply non audit services, in accordance with Group with, and reporting to, the Committee.
policy reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of considers that action or other improvement is needed and making external auditors.
recommendations as to the steps to be taken External auditor independence and non audit services How does the Committee discharge its responsibilities?
The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the external The Committee met three times in 2009.
Attendance at Committee auditors independence and objectivity is not compromised.
meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee: and the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision Audit and the external auditors are generally invited to attend.
The of non audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee considers Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have the right of direct and approves fees in respect of non audit services provided by the access to the Chairman of the Committee at all times and to meet the external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy in this area, Committee without management present.
which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The cost of non audit services provided in 2009 is reported in note 3 to the During 2009 the Committee: financial statements.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of reviewed the Annual Report for 2008 and the Interim Report for 2009 these non audit services did not impair PwCs independence.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls discussed with management and the external auditors significant issues and areas of financial risk, accounting principles, practices and judgements considered with the external auditors the significant matters arising from the annual external audit reviewed reports prepared by the internal audit function together with managements response and the actions taken focused on complex or unusual transactions and judgemental areas Energy Supporting Energy Wood Group AR 2009 Back - Final2.
com 43 : Internal Control Ongoing procedures Overall control environment The Group has a clear The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal organisational structure for the control and monitoring of its control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
businesses, including defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group has issued policies which define the The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, standards of business conduct and include Accounting Policies, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that Contract Risk Management and Review: Health, Safety and has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of Environment: and Business Ethics.
Consistent with the Business approval of this annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by Ethics Policy, advice lines have been established to enable staff and the Board and is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal third parties to raise ethical concerns in confidence.
controls published in October 2005 by the Turnbull Review Group: Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined For further details please refer to the Ethics section of Code.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Review Corporate Social Responsibility on page 32.
Group guidance referred to above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Risk identification and management The Board formally Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than reviews the Groups exposure to key business risks at least once a eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can year including the controls in place and management action plans.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material In addition the Board receives regular updates from management misstatement or loss.
on specific risks and actions.
Each divisions management team is responsible for the process of identification and evaluation of The key elements of the ongoing procedures which the directors have significant operational, financial and compliance risks and for the established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control design and operation of effective internal controls.
on an annual basis are listed to the right.
For further details please refer to Principal risks and As a result of these ongoing procedures the Boards assessment was uncertainties on pages 24 and 25. that the internal control environment was operating effectively.
Monitoring of the internal control systems The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly reports include a detailed financial review against budgets, and, twice a year, revised forecasts.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports and meet on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance and other operational matters.
In addition, each division holds Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director normally attend the QRMs.
indd 43 01 04 2010 14:07 44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Governance Corporate governance continued Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The Group has considerable financial resources together with the cash affect its future development, performance and position are set out inflows generated from its existing activities as set out in note 26 to in the Operational Review on pages 6 to 25.
The financial position of the financial statements.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
described in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 23.
In addition, note Having made the appropriate enquiries including a review of cash flow 17 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies projections and key sensitivities, the directors consider, in accordance and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management with the Code, that the business is a going concern.
Adequate objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and resources exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the 36 and 37, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent Group: and company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the directors report on page 38 includes a fair review of the the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: uncertainties that it faces.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as is defined as information needed by the companys auditors in adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent connection with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the disclosed and explained in the financial statements companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
