CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, all directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three The company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the years.
The board composition allows for changes to be made with Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial minimum disruption.
Reporting Council dated June 2006 the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code have been applied.
The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its performance and the performance of its committees and the individual directors.
The company has complied with all relevant provisions set out in During the year, the Company Secretary conducted face to face Section 1 of the Code throughout the year except that the board interviews with each individual director.
The interviews focused on has taken the view that it is not necessarily practical, efficient or the operation of the board and its committees and on individual desired by shareholders for the Senior Independent Director to directors contributions.
A summary of the responses was prepared attend meetings with major shareholders in order to learn their by the Company Secretary and discussed at a board meeting.
issues and concerns unless such discussions are requested by shareholders.
The methods by which major shareholders views are One area covered by the board evaluation related to the training communicated to the board as a whole are discussed under needs of the executive and non-executive directors.
Regular business Relations with Shareholders on page 41. presentations from senior managers at board meetings assist the non-executive directors in familiarising themselves with the groups businesses.
The board also usually holds at least one board meeting Directors and the Board per year at one of the groups operational sites and takes the The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the opportunity to tour the site and discuss issues with local senior and groups system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives middle management.
Individual non-executive directors also undertake and the stewardship of the companys resources and is ultimately site visits.
Such presentations, meetings and site visits help to give a responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters.
The board balanced overview of the company.
They enable the non-executive held eight meetings in the year and in addition met separately to directors to build an understanding of the companys businesses, the review the groups long term strategy.
The board delegates specific markets in which the company operates and its main relationships and responsibilities to board committees, as described below.
The board to build a link with the companys employees.
This is important in reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and helping the non-executive directors to continually develop and refresh presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Company their knowledge and skills to ensure that their contribution to the board Secretary is responsible to the board, and is available to individual remains informed and relevant.
Account is taken of environmental, directors, in respect of board procedures.
social and governance matters in the training of directors.
The board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
met without the Chairman present to consider evaluation of the Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive.
Sir John Banham is the Chairmans performance.
Sir Johns other commitments are disclosed on page 38.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
The Committees of the Board Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly each non-executive director, is able to make an effective contribution.
The Chief Executives Committee is responsible for the He monitors, with assistance from the Company Secretary, the recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and information distributed to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate.
It is also accurate, timely and clear.
The Chief Executive maintains day-to-day responsible for the executive management of the groups business.
management responsibility for the companys operations, implementing The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets monthly group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
During the year it comprised the executive directors and five senior executives of the company.
The role of non-executive directors, who are appointed for specified terms subject to re-election and to Companies Acts provisions relating The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose to the removal of a director, is to enhance independence and purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its objectivity of the boards deliberations and decisions.
Mr A M Thomson responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
The was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1st April 2008 Audit Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
following the retirement of Mr C D Mackay on 31st March 2008.
It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the Sir Thomas Harris joined the board as a non-executive director group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director on 1st April 2009 following the retirement from the board of and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation.
A report Mr I C Strachan on 31st March 2009.
All non-executive directors from the Audit Committee on its activities is given on page 46. are independent of management and free from any business or Mr Thomson has recent and relevant financial experience as former other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise Finance Director of Smiths Group plc and currently as Senior Vice of their independent judgment.
President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
The executive directors have specific responsibilities, which are The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board detailed on pages 38 and 39, and have direct responsibility for all responsible for advising the board and making recommendations operations and activities.
As announced on 26th February 2009, on the appointment of new directors.
The Nomination Committee Mr D W Morgan, Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, is chaired by Sir John Banham, the group Chairman, and also has decided to stand down from the board at the forthcoming Annual comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
A report General Meeting on 21st July 2009.
As announced on 1st April 2009, from the Nomination Committee on its activities is given on page 45.
Dr P N Hawker, Executive Director, Process Technologies and Fine The Management Development and Remuneration Committee Chemicals & Catalysts, has decided to retire and will also stand MDRC is a sub-committee of the board which determines on behalf down from the board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Also of the board the remuneration of the executive directors.
Mr R J W as announced on 1st April 2009, Mr W F Sandford, Division Director, Walvis was appointed Chairman of the MDRC on 1st April 2008 Precious Metal Products, has been appointed an executive director following the retirement of Mr C D Mackay on 31st March 2008.
The and will join the board with effect from the end of the forthcoming MDRC comprises all the independent non-executive directors of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr L C Pentz, previously Executive company together with the group Chairman.
The Chief Executive and Director, Emission Control Technologies, was appointed Executive the Director of Human Resources attend by invitation except when Director, Environmental Technologies with effect from 1st April 2009. their own performance and remuneration are discussed.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 53.
40 - Johnson Matthey CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committees of the Board continued Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2008 09 was as follows: Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee Director Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended 1 Sir John Banham 884466 4 1 1 1 N A P Carson 88 4 6 4 P N Hawker 8 8 D W Morgan 8 8 L C Pentz 8 8 M J Roney 88446544 1 J N Sheldrick 8 8 4 I C Strachan 86436344 D C Thompson 88446644 A M Thomson 88446644 R J W Walvis 88446644 1 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
The groups organisational structure is focused on its three divisions.
Directors Remuneration These are all separately managed but report to the board through a The Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 53 includes details of board director.
The executive management team receives monthly remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
summaries of financial results from each division through a standardised reporting process.
Relations with Shareholders The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process The board considers effective communication with shareholders, including forecasts for the next two years.
Variances from budget whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, are closely monitored.
The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of internal The company reports formally to shareholders when its full year control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The internal control results are announced and a half-yearly report and a full report are systems are designed to meet the groups needs and address the published.
These reports are posted on Johnson Mattheys website risks to which it is exposed.
Such systems can provide reasonable www.
At the same time, executive directors give but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
presentations on the results to institutional investors, analysts and There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the media in London and other international centres.
Copies of the significant risks faced by the company which has been in place major presentations are also posted on the companys website.
during the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual The companys Annual General Meeting takes place in London and Report and Accounts.
The board regularly reviews this process.
formal notification is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the in advance of the meeting.
The directors are available for questions, board and updated on an annual basis.
At the business level, the formally during the Annual General Meeting and informally afterwards.
processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part Details of the 2009 Annual General Meeting are set out in the notice of the control environment.
Key risks and internal controls are the of the meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executives Committee.
Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and their views are communicated to the board as a whole.
The Chairman authority limits of the various board and executive committees and also discusses governance and other matters directly with major also specifies what may be decided without central approval.
The board believes that appropriate steps have been supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals taken during the year to ensure that the members of the board, and issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or in particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding departments.
The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with of the issues and concerns of major shareholders about the which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical company.
The board is provided with brokers reports and feedback controls over precious metals held at the groups sites.
from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
The canvassing of major shareholders views for the board in a detailed investor survey is The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the groups usually conducted every two years by external consultants.
The board systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity has taken the view that these methods, taken together, are a practical of the financial information reported to the board.
The Audit and efficient way both for the Chairman to keep in touch with major Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives shareholder opinion on governance and strategy and for the Senior the reports produced by the internal audit function on a regular basis.
Independent Director to learn the views of major shareholders and Actions are agreed with management in response to the internal to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
The Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested, maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance however no such meetings were requested during the year.
These assessments are summarised by the internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit Committee.
Accountability, Audit and Control The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year The statement of the Responsibility of Directors for the preparation ended 31st March 2009 and the period up to 3rd June 2009 has of the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 54. been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance included In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a with the Code and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial system of internal control.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 41 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
