AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Audit Committee management.
The Committee reviewed the groups credit control procedures and risks, controls over precious metals and IT controls.
The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose The groups corporate social responsibility reporting arrangements responsibilities include: and whistleblowing procedures were also reviewed.
Changes to the Reviewing the half-yearly and full year accounts and results Group Control Manual were ratified.
The Committee also reviewed announcements of the company and any other formal the governance procedures of the external auditors and considered announcements relating to the companys financial performance the risk of their failure to operate as a going concern.
and recommending them to the board for approval.
Since the year end the Committee has met to review the companys Reviewing the groups systems for internal financial control and preliminary announcement of its results and draft report for the risk management.
financial year ended 31st March 2009, and also the companys assessment of going concern for the period to 30th June 2010.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function and considering regular reports from internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management.
Independence of External Auditors Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had Considering the appointment of the external auditors, overseeing safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors the process for their selection and making recommendations to objectivity and independence could be compromised.
Our policy in the board in relation to their appointment to be put to shareholders respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: for approval at a general meeting.
Audit related services the external auditors are invited to provide Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of services which, in their position as auditors, they must or are best the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their audit, placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating to borrowings, agreeing their remuneration, and considering their reports on the shareholders and other circulars, various other regulatory reports companys accounts, reports to shareholders and their evaluation and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
of the systems of internal financial control and risk management.
Tax consulting in cases where they are best suited, we use the The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on external auditors.
All other significant tax consulting work is put the companys website at www.
Composition of the Audit Committee General consulting in recognition of public concern over the effect of consulting services on auditors independence, our The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for directors.
Biographical details of the independent directors are set general consulting work.
Their remuneration is set out on page 50.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson, who was The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year ended formerly Finance Director of Smiths Group plc and is currently Senior 31st March 2009 and information on the nature of non-audit fees Vice President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
appear in note 5 on the accounts.
The group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and external auditors KPMG Audit Plc attend Internal Audit Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee also meets During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during auditors without management being present.
The Company Secretary the year and the departments resource requirements and also is secretary to the Audit Committee.
approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2010.
Internal audit independently reviews the risks and control processes Main Activities of the Audit Committee operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the 31st March 2009.
At its meeting on 29th May 2008 the Committee Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
reviewed the companys preliminary announcement of its results for the financial year ended 31st March 2008, and the draft report and The plan provides a high degree of financial and geographical accounts for that year.
The Committee received reports from the coverage and devotes significant effort to the review of the risk external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the management framework surrounding the major business risks.
accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal their comments on risk management and control matters.
The controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve Committee also reviewed shareholder resolutions to be proposed at the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up the implementation of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
recommendations and reports progress to senior management and The Audit Committee met on 21st July 2008 to receive reports on the Audit Committee.
internal controls from both the internal and external auditors.
The The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal external auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for Audit on the departments work and findings.
The Committee also reviewed the The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and performance of both the internal and external auditors.
The review of discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
the external auditors was used to confirm the appropriateness of their reappointment and included assessment of their independence, qualification, expertise and resources, and effectiveness of their audit On behalf of the Committee: process.
The groups Sustainability Report 2007 08 was also reviewed, which is available on the companys website at www.
At its meeting on 24th November 2008 the Audit Committee reviewed the companys half-yearly results, the half-yearly report and the external auditors review.
At its meeting on 3rd February 2009 the Audit Committee reviewed managements and internal audits reports on the effectiveness of Alan Thomson the companys systems for internal financial control and risk Chairman of the Audit Committee 46 - Johnson Matthey
