NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Nomination Committee At its meeting on 1st April 2008, the Nomination Committee went on to discuss and agree the process for the selection and The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose appointment of a non-executive director to replace Mr I C Strachan, purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary, who would be retiring from the board on 31st March 2009.
The dismissal of executive and non-executive directors.
The full terms of Nomination Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the companys and experience on the board and, in the light of this evaluation, website at www.
prepared a description of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
At its meetings between 1st April 2008 and Composition of the Nomination Committee 3rd February 2009 the Nomination Committee agreed the appointment The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent nonof an external search consultant, formed an interview panel comprising executive directors together with the group Chairman.
The quorum the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom and considered a shortlist of candidates.
The suitability of each must be an independent non-executive director.
Biographical details proposed candidate was carefully considered, including whether of the independent directors and the group Chairman are set out they could devote sufficient time to the role.
At its meeting on on pages 38 and 39.
Their remuneration is set out on page 50.
3rd February 2009, the Nomination Committee agreed to recommend the appointment of Sir Thomas Harris with effect from 1st April 2009, The group Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Nomination following the retirement of Mr Strachan.
The board accepted the Committee, although the group Chairman may not chair the recommendation at its meeting later that day.
Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the company.
A non-executive Also at its meeting on 1st April 2008, the Nomination Committee director may not chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing began consideration of the process for the selection and appointment with a matter relating to that non-executive director.
of a new Group Finance Director to replace Mr J N Sheldrick on his proposed retirement from the board on 7th September 2009.
Only members of the Nomination Committee have the right to The Nomination Committee took further steps in the selection and attend Nomination Committee meetings.
However, other individuals, appointment process at its meetings between 1st April 2008 and such as the Chief Executive, the Director of Human Resources and 3rd February 2009.
The Nomination Committee considered the external advisers, may be invited to attend for all or part of any skills, knowledge and experience which the role demanded and a meeting as and when appropriate.
An external search consultant was The Company Secretary is secretary to the Nomination Committee.
appointed to assist in the process.
A sub-committee of the Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman and the Senior The Nomination Committee has the authority to seek any information Independent Director, assisted by the Chief Executive, was appointed that it requires from any officer or employee of the company or its to take the selection process forward.
In connection with its duties, the Nomination Committee interviewed by the sub-committee.
At its meeting on 3rd February is authorised by the board to take such independent advice including 2009, following feedback from its sub-committee, the Nomination legal or other professional advice, at the companys expense as it Committee agreed to recommend to the board the appointment considers necessary, including requests for information from or of Mr R J MacLeod as an executive director and Group Finance commissioning investigations by external advisers.
Director designate with effect from 22nd June 2009.
The board approved the appointment of Mr MacLeod at its meeting on Main Activities of the Nomination Committee 3rd February 2009.
The Nomination Committee met six times during the financial year At its meeting on 31st March 2009, the Nomination Committee ended 31st March 2009: on 1st and 29th April, 3rd June and considered and recommended to the board the proposed 24th November 2008 and on 3rd February and 31st March 2009. appointment of Mr W F Sandford as an executive director following The Nomination Committee met on 1st April 2008 to discuss and Dr P N Hawkers decision to retire from the board at the forthcoming make recommendations to the board for the appointments of a Annual General Meeting on 21st July 2009.
It also considered and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Management recommended to the board the proposed change in responsibilities Development and Remuneration Committee following the retirement of Mr L C Pentz to Executive Director, Environmental Technologies.
of Mr C D Mackay from the board on 31st March 2008.
After full Proposals for new appointments to the Chief Executives Committee discussion, taking into account all relevant factors and considering with effect from 1st April 2009 were also discussed.
The board the corporate governance and Combined Code background to the approved the appointment of Mr Sandford and the change in proposed appointments including the role of the Senior Independent responsibilities of Mr Pentz at its meeting on 31st March 2009.
Director under the Combined Code, the Nomination Committee agreed to recommend to the board that Mr A M Thomson be appointed Senior Independent Director and that Mr R J W Walvis On behalf of the Nomination Committee: be appointed Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee.
The board approved the recommendations at its meeting on 1st April 2008.
Sir John Banham Chairman of the Nomination Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2009 - 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
