62 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Company is aware that, following its review of the impact PHILIP AIKEN and effectiveness of the Combined Code last year, the FRC Senior Independent Director has undertaken a consultation on the proposed revisions to the Combined Code.
The proposed revisions include proposals to implement some of the recommendations of the Walker Report on the governance of banks and other financial institutions, which the FRC consider should apply to all listed companies.
The outcome of the consultation and the revised Combined Code, which will be known as the UK Corporate Governance Code, will apply to the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Company will monitor the proposed revisions and report to shareholders on its compliance with the revised Combined Code at the appropriate time.
COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE During the year, the Company has complied fully with the provisions of the Combined Code, save in the following respects: the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
This arises due to Vladimir Kims significant shareholding in the Company.
Vladimir Kim joined the Group in 1995 and has made a major contribution to its development into an international company.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion that his continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
at least half the Board was not independent, for the purposes of The Board is committed to high the Combined Code, throughout the period.
To redress the balance standards of corporate governance in its of independent Directors on the Board, the Board appointed Peter Hickson and Clinton Dines with effect from 5 March 2009 management of the affairs of the Group and 1 October 2009, respectively, as independent non-executive and in its accountability to shareholders.
With effect from 1 October 2009, the Company complied fully with this requirement of the Combined Code.
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Audit Committee did not have at least three members issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2008 throughout the period.
Following the appointment of Peter Hickson the Combined Code.
as an independent non-executive Director and a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 5 March 2009, the composition The Companys policies on corporate direction and control of the Committee complied fully with this requirement of the ensure that the Company applies all of the principles of Combined Code.
good governance contained in the Combined Code to the organisational structure it has adopted to conduct its business, THE BOARD its remuneration policy, its relations with its shareholders, and The Board is responsible for managing the Company on behalf of its the procedures adhered to in its financial reporting, internal shareholders and each Director must act in a way that he considers control and assurance processes.
promotes the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of those shareholders as a whole.
The Board also ensures that an The rest of this section of the Annual Report and Accounts explains appropriate balance between promoting long-term growth and in more detail how the Company applied the principles and complied delivering short-term objectives is achieved.
with the provisions of the Combined Code, and also gives further details of the matters the Board and its committees considered The Board sets the overall strategy of the Group, reviews trading during the financial year.
performance, ensures adequate funding, examines major investments, ensures the appropriate allocation of financial resources and monitors the performance of the executive team.
It is also responsible for providing leadership and support to the executive management team in creating and sustaining shareholder value through the management of the Groups business, together with delivering expected shareholder returns.
Another key responsibility of the Board is to approve the overall Group risk appetite and ensure that management maintains a system of internal control that provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law and regulation.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 63 The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD its decision.
A summary of the matters reserved for the Board is set Key matters reserved for the Board include the approval of: out opposite.
These are matters that are significant to the Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial or reputational implications the Groups strategy, and medium and short-term plans: or consequences.
The Board has four principal committees to deal major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: with specic aspects of the Groups affairs.
The chairmen of the Board committees report regularly to the Board on the matters discussed the annual budget: at the Board committees, thereby ensuring that all Directors have the Groups risk management strategy and policy on insurance: visibility and the opportunity to discuss such matters.
health, safety, environmental and ethical policies: Directors are required to demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity, a willingness to question, challenge and critique, major capital investments and projects: and a desire to understand and commit to the highest standards the Companys dividend policy: of governance.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or action is taken that places his interests in front of the interests of the business.
the appointment and removal of any Directors of the Company: Directors commit to the collective decision-making processes of the the authorisation of Directors conicts or potential conicts Board.
Individual Directors are required to debate issues openly of interest: and constructively and be free to question or challenge the opinions of others.
the Board and its committees performance evaluation process: The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible the Annual Report and Accounts and half-yearly reports: for advising the Board on governance matters, for ensuring good all circulars, reports, prospectuses or other related documents information ows within the Board and for providing guidance to for shareholders: the Board in the responsible and effective execution of its tasks.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company the principal regulatory lings with stock exchanges: Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent the rules and procedures for dealing in the Companys shares: and professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such external advice was sought by any Director during the year.
The appointment the appointment or removal of the Companys external auditor and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the and main financial, legal and technical advisers.
The Company Secretary is Robert Welch, who joined the Group in 2006 as Deputy Company Secretary and was appointed to his current position in March 2007.
He is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and is secretary to all of the Board Committees except the Audit Committee.
The secretary to the Audit Committee is Stephen Hodges, Deputy Company Secretary, who joined the Group in 2007 and is also an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly dened so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the strategic direction of the Group, overseeing the responsibilities of management, leadership of the Board and the relationships with the Government and business community in Kazakhstan.
As part of the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, the Board remains satisfied that the Chairman is able to full all of the commitments required of his role.
64 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN ensuring that the Groups operations comply with all relevant Key roles and responsibilities of the Chairman include: health and safety standards and are undertaken with special regard for environmental concerns in the countries in which the setting a vision for the Group and formulation of its strategy: Group operates: and providing leadership to the Board, ensuring the effectiveness ensuring at all times that the Group conducts its business in of the Board on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda: accordance with the legal requirements of the countries in which ensuring effective communication with shareholders: it operates.
facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive Directors ROLE OF THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR and ensuring constructive relations between executive and Philip Aiken continued in his role as Senior Independent Director non-executive Directors: during 2009.
The key roles and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are to: providing leadership to the senior management team: together with the other non-executive Directors, be available ensuring the creation and maintenance of safe working to discuss matters of concern with shareholders.
Furthermore, environments within the Groups operations: and Philip Aiken is available to shareholders should they have had any maintaining effective and constructive relations with the concerns which could not be resolved through the normal channels Government and business community in Kazakhstan.
of communication with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
No such concerns were raised by shareholders during the year ended ROLE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 31 December 2009: The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group and the implementation of the strategy approved by meet with the non-executive Directors without the Chairman the Board.
being present at least annually and lead the Board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation of the Chairman: and Key roles and responsibilities of the Chief Executive include: maintain contact as required with major shareholders to establishing and maintaining an international organisation understand their issues and concerns, including attending that will enable the Groups strategic direction to be meetings where necessary with shareholders, to listen to their implemented effectively: views in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues developing a human resources plan to ensure the Group and concerns of major shareholders.
has the capabilities and resources required to achieve its During the year, Philip Aiken attended a number of meetings with strategic objectives: institutional shareholders to discuss their views on the Group and representing the Group as required and furthering its best received feedback on the Chairmans performance following the interests in the business and industry community: annual Board performance evaluation process.
ensuring that the business is operating effectively: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BOARD INDEPENDENCE The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent element Effective management and good stewardship are led by the Board, on the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate governance.
which currently consists of ten directors, eight of whom served Although all Directors are equally accountable under the law for throughout the financial year, with Peter Hickson and Clinton Dines the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs, the non-executive having been appointed on 5 March 2009 and 1 October 2009, Directors full a vital role in corporate accountability.
Including the Chairman, there are three executive particular responsibility to examine critically the strategies proposed Directors, five independent non-executive Directors and two by the executive Directors, scrutinise the performance of management non-independent non-executive Directors: this balance ensures in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and play a leading role in the that no individual or small group of Directors can dominate the functioning of the main Board committees.
Between them, the current decision making process and that the interests of the minority non-executive Directors bring experience, expertise and independent shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all Directors are set judgement from a variety of business sectors and public life.
It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should be independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Vladimir Ni and Board composition Daulet Yergozhin, the Board considers each of its current non-executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
In reaching Executive Directors 3 its determination of independence, the Board has concluded that each Independent non-executive Directors 5 provides objective challenge to management, is willing to stand up Non-independent non-executive Directors 2 and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the ultimate good of the organisation and there are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of Philip Aiken, Clinton Dines, Simon Heale, Peter Hickson and Lord Renwick.
The Board carries out a review of the independence of its Directors on an annual basis.
Vladimir Ni is not considered by the Board to be independent, with effect from 1 January 2006, following his appointment as chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, the OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS www.
com 65 Companys operating company within the Kazakhmys Copper Division The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board in Kazakhstan, and Daulet Yergozhin is not considered by the Board to which they were eligible to attend and the number of meetings be independent from his date of appointment as he is a representative attended during 2009 is shown below: of the Government of Kazakhstan, a 15% shareholder in the Company.
Directors Number of scheduled Board Number of scheduled during the year meetings eligible to attend Board meetings attended The independent non-executive Directors are: Vladimir Kim 65 Philip Aiken Oleg Novachuk 66 Chairman of Robert Walters plc, and a non-executive director of David Munro 65 National Grid PLC and Miclyn Express Offshore Limited.
He was Philip Aiken 66 formerly president, UK of BHP Billiton plc, having previously been Clinton Dines 11 group president of BHP Billitons energy business, president, Simon Heale 66 BHP Billiton Petroleum, an executive director of BTR plc and Peter Hickson 44 held a number of senior positions in BOC Group plc.
Vladimir Ni 66 Clinton Dines Lord Renwick 65 Has been involved in business in China since 1980, including senior Daulet Yergozhin 63 positions with the Jardine Matheson Group, Santa Fe Transport Group and Asia Securities Venture Capital.
In 1988 he joined BHP as their In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board during the senior executive in China and, following the merger of BHP and Billiton year, three further meetings were arranged at short notice to deal in 2001, he became president, BHP Billiton China, a position from which with specic matters and it was not always possible for all Directors he retired in 2009 prior to his appointment with Kazakhmys.
Simon Heale Interim chairman of Panmure Gordon & Co plc and a non-executive GOVERNANCE IN PRACTICE director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, Marex Group Limited INDUCTION OF CLINTON DINES AS A NEW INDEPENDENT and PZ Cussons plc.
He was formerly chief executive of The London NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Metal Exchange, chief operating officer of Jardine Fleming Limited Following an initial discussion between the Company Secretary and deputy managing director of Cathay Pacic Airways.
and Clinton Dines, a comprehensive induction programme, Peter Hickson tailored to his individual experiences and requirements, was Chairman of Communisis plc and senior independent director of arranged on his joining the Board.
The programme was designed London & Continental Railways Limited.
He was previously chairman to ensure that he was provided with the necessary knowledge of Anglian Water Group Limited, group finance director of Powergen and understanding of his role and of the Group and its activities plc and a non-executive director of Telent plc, Scottish Power plc to enable him to full his duties on the Board and on the and RAC plc.
He is also a trustee of the ORBIS Charitable Trust.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG The programme included: Chairman of Fluor Limited, deputy chairman of Fleming Family meetings with the Companys brokers, legal advisers and & Partners Limited and a non-executive director of Compagnie external auditor: Financire Richemont AG.
He was formerly British Ambassador to the United States and to South Africa, and a non-executive director meetings with the Chief Financial officer, Head of Corporate of GEM Diamonds Limited, SABMiller plc, BHP Billiton plc, British Communications, Head of Sales and Logistics and Head of Airways plc and Liberty International plc.
He is vice chairman, Business Development on their roles and responsibilities: Investment Banking of J. P. Morgan Europe and vice chairman of meeting with the Company Secretary to discuss duties, J. P. Morgan Cazenove, who are brokers and financial advisers to responsibilities and liabilities of Directors, Board and committee the Company: he has no involvement in the provision of broking issues and corporate governance: or financial services to the Company.
a visit to the Zhezkazgan Complex in Kazakhstan, providing an ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS opportunity to see the Groups operations and to meet with the All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and each Chief Executive officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and other meeting of the committees of which they are members, unless there senior local management.
are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
Scheduled Board and committee meetings are arranged at least a Although not part of his formal induction programme, he also has year in advance to allow Directors to manage their other commitments.
a standing invitation to attend shareholder meetings and analyst presentations, with shareholders having an opportunity to meet All Directors are provided with the papers for consideration and him after the Annual General Meeting.
other relevant information in advance of each meeting.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, he will still receive the papers and other relevant information in advance of the meeting and will have the opportunity to discuss with the chairman of the meeting or the Company Secretary any matters he wishes to raise to ensure his views are given due consideration and, if necessary, follow up with the decisions taken at the meeting.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary are always available for the Directors to discuss any issues relating to a Board or committee meeting or other matters.
Reasons for non-attendance are generally prior business and personal commitments or illness.
66 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for The Companies Act 2006 introduced a new statutory duty in October election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their 2008 requiring a director to avoid a situation in which he has or can appointment.
Thereafter, the Companys Articles of Association require have a direct or indirect interest that conicts or possibly may conict that all Directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing duty that a director owes to the Company to disclose to INDUCTION, TRAINING AND INFORMATION the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive a the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their individual companies to authorise conicts and potential conicts where the requirements.
The induction programme, which is arranged by the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
Company Secretary, includes visits to some of the Groups businesses and meetings with senior managers and advisers as appropriate.
Shareholders approved amendments to the Companys Articles of The programme is designed to facilitate their understanding of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting which included the Group, the key drivers of business performance, the role of the provisions giving the Directors authority to approve such situations Board and its committees, the Companys corporate governance and to include other provisions to allow conicts of interest to be practices and procedures, and provides them with appropriate dealt with in a similar way to the position that existed prior to the training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and coming into force of this legislation.
There is no breach of duty if liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
the relevant situation has been so authorised in advance.
To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are The Board has a procedure when deciding whether to authorise procedures to provide them with appropriate and timely information, a conict or potential conict of interest.
Under this procedure, including information between meetings about developments Directors are required to declare all directorships or other in the Groups business and financial performance, so that they appointments outside of the Group and which could give rise to can discharge their duties on strategic, financial, operational, a conict or potential conict of interest.
In consideration of each compliance and governance issues.
conict or potential conict of interest declared by a Director, rstly, only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, issues are arranged.
For example, over the last 12 months, members and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a of the Board have made visits to the Groups operations in Kazakhstan way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the and Germany and have received specic briengs by management Companys success.
In addition, the Directors will be able to impose on the implications of new legislation in the United Kingdom limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this and Kazakhstan.
To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the views GOVERNANCE IN PRACTICE of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder sentiment from the Head of Corporate Communications.
Although PERFORMANCE EVALUATION PROCESS not part of their induction programme, all non-executive Directors FACILITATED BY EXTERNAL CONSULTANT have a standing invitation to attend shareholder meetings and analyst presentations, and shareholders may meet informally with Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
Detailed questionnaires covering performance: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Board A full Board performance evaluation process was undertaken in late committees 2009, facilitated by an external consultant, with fully documented executive Directors Detailed composite report results being presented to the March 2010 Board meeting.
The non-executive Directors process was carefully structured but pragmatic, tailored to bring Board and its committees about a genuine debate of issues that are relevant, and assisted operating effectively in identifying any potential for improvement in the Companys and each Director processes.
It entailed the completion of detailed questionnaires on contributing effectively the performance of the Board, its committees and its executive and and demonstrating Evaluation of executive non-executive Directors by each Director excluding Clinton Dines commitment to his role Directors: who was appointed on 1 October 2009 and the preparation of a Board developing action through meetings composite report.
The evaluation report concluded that the Board plans in respect of a small with Chairman and number of actions and and its committees continue to operate effectively and each Director non-executive Directors improvements identied is contributing effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role.
While being satisfied with its overall performance, the Board Evaluation of Chairman: is developing action plans in respect of certain areas identied led by the Senior for improvement including, for example, the setting of further Independent Director, with non-financial targets and a greater focus on succession planning.
non-executive Directors During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings with non-executive Directors without executive Directors being present.
The Senior Independent Director also led the non-executive Directors in evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
com 67 The Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any conict or a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to support the potential conict of interest and authorisations granted by the Board Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conicts of regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and interest.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for effectiveness of internal control: informing the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential conicts that may arise or, if there are any changes in circumstances a remuneration policy for executives which motivates them, that may affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when without delivering excessive benets or encouraging excessive provided with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from risk taking: and his duty to promote the success of the Company.
regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety Furthermore, at the 2008 Annual General Meeting shareholders and Environment Committee on health, safety and approved further amendments to the Companys Articles of environmental matters.
Association which include provisions relating to condential The Board, in conjunction with management, has agreed a number information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board of activities to further develop the internal control environment.
papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conict of Progress on these initiatives, alongside the development of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position embedded risk management and assurance processes, is being giving rise to the potential conict has previously been authorised made.
Details of initiatives in the area of financial risk management by the Directors.
can be found in the Financial Review commencing on page 36, INTERNAL CONTROL and initiatives in the area of health, safety and the environment The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of on page 50. this system.
Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and All acquired businesses will be brought within the Groups system manage the significant risks associated with the Groups achievement of internal control as soon as practicable and in any event within of its business objectives, with a view to safeguarding shareholders 12 months of acquisition.
ENRC PLC, in which the Group has a 26% investments and the Groups assets.
This system is designed to meet shareholding, has not been incorporated into the Groups system the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, of internal control.
and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, such a system INTERNAL AUDIT can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems misstatement or loss.
of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with legal and The Board confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 December regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance on risk and 2009 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and controls to senior management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Accounts, there have been processes in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Internal audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
and its mandate and programme of work is approved by the Audit Committee.
Based on the approved audit plan, internal audit has The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the undertaken a number of audits across operations and functions to Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
facilitate improvement of the Groups internal controls, reporting To identify and manage key risks, the Board has established a number findings to relevant operational management.
The head of internal of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards, has set up a audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
framework for reporting matters of signicance, has authorised the Audit Committee to review the Groups strategy with regard to risk The Audit Committee receives reports from the head of internal audit and the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal on the departments work and findings and the effectiveness of the control and assurance systems, has developed a system of regular internal audit function is reviewed and discussed on an annual reports from management and has reserved specic key matters for basis with the head of internal audit.
The process is designed to provide assurance by way Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal of cumulative assessment.
controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which have the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up the implementation of operated throughout the year are: recommendations and reports progress to senior management and the Audit Committee.
Group financial, treasury, operating and administrative policies and procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour: MANAGEMENT OF RISK The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to continuous review of safety, operating and financial performance strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall of the Groups businesses: management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the Groups risk including monthly results, periodic short-term forecasts, annual management framework.
The Board has approved a formalised but budgets and long-term plans: pragmatic Group risk management framework.
This framework is designed to provide assurance that risks are being identied and well-dened procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review managed in a manner appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
of major capital projects, including acquisitions and disposals: It comprises risk identication and assessment processes, together an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in with risk response and monitoring activities.
The Group Risk Manager each of its business operations and the significant risk issues coordinates the risk assessment and identication activities, and associated therewith: facilitates the development of appropriate responses to identied risks.
implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with Details of the process for identifying and managing the Groups risks significant risks, including measures such as insurance and and further information of the risks identied are set out in the Risk use of external specialists: Factors section on pages 32 to 35.
68 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS All members of the Board excluding Daulet Yergozhin who was The Board recognises the importance of good communications with unable to attend due to a conict in schedules attended the 2009 shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its key financial Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting, the audiences, including institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts and Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys activities potential shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial for the previous year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2009 officer are closely involved in investor relations and the Head of Annual General Meeting were voted by way of an electronic poll.
Corporate Communications has day-to-day responsibility for This procedure follows best practice and allows the Company to such matters.
count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Combined Code, all resolutions The Company has approved a communications policy which has been were voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes adopted throughout the Group.
The executive Directors are available, cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged through the Head of Corporate Communications, to discuss the prior to the meeting, were reported at the meeting and the final concerns of major shareholders at any time during the year and the results were made available on the Companys website as soon as Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with major practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the Form of Proxy shareholders.
Non-executive Directors, and in particular the Senior made it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not Independent Director, will continue to make themselves available be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or to attend meetings with shareholders in order to develop an against a resolution.
The Company responds as necessary to requests from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Directors responsibility statement for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 82.
There is regular dialogue with key institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts to discuss strategy, financial performance and BOARD COMMITTEES investment activities throughout the Group, who also from time to The four principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Group Health, time visit the Groups operations.
During 2009, executive Directors Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
and senior management met with institutional investors in London, Board committee members are appointed by the Board upon the Scotland, continental Europe, United States of America and recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which reviews the Singapore.
A number of roadshows also took place during 2009 composition of each committee regularly.
Committee members are and attendance at several United Kingdom, European and American expected to attend each committee meeting, unless there are conferences provided a comprehensive dialogue with shareholders.
exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
The Company Secretary, Robert Welch, is secretary to the Group Health, The Company issues quarterly production updates and interim Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration Committees management statements in April and October to the market.
and the Deputy Company Secretary, Stephen Hodges, is secretary to These, together with copies of institutional analyst presentations the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of each committee are each half year, the Groups preliminary and half-yearly results and all available on the Companys website www.
com and on announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are available request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered on the Companys website www.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed the Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the annually.
Each committee reports on its activities to the next Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary Board meeting following its meeting.
means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The Company now produces KAZAKHMYS BOARD OF DIRECTORS an annual Super Summary which is sent to all shareholders who have not requested hard copy documentation to advise them of the availability of the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice Audit of Annual General Meeting on the Companys website.
Committee The Shareholder Information section on pages 164 to 165 contains further details on electronic communications together with more Group Health, Safety and general information of interest to shareholders which is also Environment Committee included on the Companys website.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 business days prior to such a meeting Nomination and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders Committee are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman Remuneration and, through him, the chairmen of the principal Board committees.
Committee After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
Furthermore, all shareholders are entitled to receive dividends, when declared, to appoint proxies to attend any general meeting of the Company and to exercise voting rights.
None of the Companys shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
com 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE SIMON HEALE Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include to: Chairman, Audit Committee monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary announcements and interim management statements, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain: Other members Clinton Dines review and challenge, where necessary, the consistency of, and Peter Hickson changes to, accounting policies across the Group, methods used to account for significant and unusual transactions, the clarity of disclosure in the Companys financial reports, the reporting of The Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing and monitoring related party transactions, the going concern assumption and the integrity of financial reporting by the Company, for reviewing the compliance with stock exchange and other reporting requirements: Groups internal control and risk management systems, for monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and for keep under review the Groups strategy with regard to risk and the overseeing the relationship with the external auditor.
effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control and assurance systems: GOVERNANCE Simon Heale and Peter Hickson have recent and relevant financial review the Groups insurance arrangements: experience: their biographies are set out on page 60.
The other be responsible for recommending to the Board treasury and capital member of the Committee has broad experience and knowledge management policies: of financial reporting and international businesses which he brings to the Committees deliberations.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal Officer, Company Secretary, head of internal audit and the external audit function, approving its terms of reference and reviewing and auditor are normally invited to attend Committee meetings.
approving the annual internal audit plan and review and monitor managements response to the findings and recommendations At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets separately of the internal audit function: with both the external auditor and head of internal audit, without management present, to facilitate the discussion of any matter relating consider and make recommendations to the Board for the approval to its remit and any issues arising from audits.
Arrangements have also of the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor: been adopted to ensure that the head of internal audit has direct approve the remuneration of the external auditor including the access to the Committee chairman and is accountable to the level and nature of fees for non-audit services and their terms Committee.
Furthermore, the chairman of the Committee meets of engagement and assessing annually the independence and from time to time with the external auditor and senior management objectivity of the external auditor, including the provision of any to ensure a full understanding of relevant issues.
non-audit services: Attendance at Audit Committee meetings review and approve the annual audit plan of the external auditor The attendance of members at scheduled meetings of the Audit and ensure that it is consistent with the scope of the Committee which they were eligible to attend and the number audit engagement: of meetings attended during 2009 is shown below: review any management letter received by management from Number of Number of the external auditor and monitor the Groups implementation of Members scheduled Audit Committee scheduled Audit Committee the recommendations made: during the year meetings eligible to attend meetings attended review any representation letter s requested by the external Simon Heale 55 auditor before they are signed by management: Philip Aiken until 30 September 2009 44 review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise Clinton Dines concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoings in financial from 1 October 2009 11 reporting and other matters and ensure that these arrangements Peter Hickson allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters from 5 March 2009 43 and appropriate follow up action: and In addition to the five scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee review annually the Committees own performance, constitution during the year, three further meetings were arranged at short notice and terms of reference to ensure it is operating at maximum to deal with specic matters.
effectiveness and recommend any changes it considers necessary to the Board for approval.
70 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Governance GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK ACTIVITIES IN 2009 The Committee also receives reports on developments in financial At its meetings in 2009, the Committee considered, amongst other reporting practices, legislative and regulatory changes and other matters, the following: relevant matters so as to enable it to full its responsibilities.
Financial reporting: The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the reviewed interim management statements, half-yearly and annual external auditor and their associates includes the identication of results, including accounting policies, estimates and judgements certain non-audit services which the external auditor is prohibited from applied in preparing them and the transparency and clarity of the providing and a process through which other non-audit services are disclosures within them: approved.
All non-audit services require the agreement of the Chief Financial officer, and the approval of the Committee chairman for certain received reports from management and the external auditor on services, before they can be undertaken, with certain engagements over accounting, tax and legal issues: and 50,000 only being awarded to the external auditor after a competitive reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going tender process.
The non-audit services of the external auditor will only concern basis.
be used where the Group benets in a cost-effective manner and the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence Internal control: and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services are reported to the received reports from management on the implementation of Committee twice a year.
The policy will be kept under review and enhanced financial reporting procedures and controls, and IT systems: may be amended from time to time as necessary.
reviewed the design and effectiveness of the Groups system of Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit internal control as set out on page 67 and the disclosures made and non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2009 in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter: and and information on the nature of non-audit fees appear in reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the note 11 to the financial statements on page 119. external auditor and the statement concerning such disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts.
GROUP HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE Risk management: PHILIP AIKEN reviewed the effectiveness of the Group risk management framework Chairman, Group Health, Safety as described on page 32 and reports arising out of the risk and Environment Committee management process: and monitored the Groups insurance arrangements.
Internal audit: Other members approved the internal audit departments strategic and operational Peter Hickson plans and reports from the internal audit department: and David Munro reviewed the level of resources allocated to internal audit to ensure the audit plan could be delivered as part of the overall assessment The Committee is primarily responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the effectiveness of the internal audit department.
of the Groups policies and systems for identifying and managing health, safety and environmental risks within the Group, for recommending External audit: to the Board the Groups policies on health, safety and environmental approved the terms of engagement of the external auditor, the matters and for ensuring that an effective system of health, safety fees paid to them and the plan of the work carried out by them: and environmental standards, procedures and practices is in place reviewed policies on the independence of the external auditor at each of the Groups operational sites.
and the provision of non-audit services: All meetings of the Committee during the year were held in Kazakhstan assessed the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and involved site visits and meetings with management responsible and in this process reviewed a report from the external auditor for health and safety, with all visits lasting for two or three days.
on all relationships that might reasonably have a bearing on their Attendance at Group Health, Safety and Environment independence and the audit partner and staffs objectivity, and Committee meetings the related safeguards and procedures: The attendance of members at scheduled meetings of the Group received reports on the findings of the external auditor during Health, Safety and Environment Committee which they were eligible their half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed the to attend and the number of meetings attended during 2009 is recommendations made to management by the external shown below: auditor and managements responses: Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Group Health, Safety and Group Health, Safety and reviewed letters of representation to the external auditor: Members Environment Committee Environment Committee during the year meetings eligible to attend meetings attended assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor: and Philip Aiken 33 recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor.
Peter Hickson from 5 March 2009 32 Other matters: David Munro 33 reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible legal, regulatory or Details of the Committees main functions and activities during the other improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters: year are given in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing reviewed the relevant disclosures in this Annual Report and on page 50.
Accounts: and reviewed the Committees effectiveness and terms of reference.
com 71 NOMINATION COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE VLADIMIR KIM Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: Chairman, Nomination Committee regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: Other members give full consideration to succession planning for Directors, taking Philip Aiken from 26 August 2009 into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, Simon Heale and the skills and expertise which are therefore needed on the Lord Renwick of Clifton Board in the future: responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process for Board Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise: appointments and for keeping under review the balance of skills, recommend to the Board suitable candidates for the role of Senior knowledge and experience on the Board for ensuring the orderly Independent Director, and membership of the Audit, Group evolution of the membership of the Board.
Health, Safety and Environment and Remuneration Committees: The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure recommend the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, generally consults the conclusion of their specified term of ofce having given regard external consultants and advisers on prospective Board to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the appointments.
The Committee keeps under review the planned and Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required: progressive refreshing of the Board and its committees, assesses the recommend the re-election by shareholders of any Director under development of Directors including induction, training and succession the retirement provisions in the Companys Articles of Association planning, considering the specic experience and skill needed for an having due regard to their performance and ability to continue appointment.
It recommends to the Board the appointment of all to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills Directors after having met short-listed candidates and having regard and experience required: and to the balance and structure of the Board.
review annually the Committees own performance, constitution GOVERNANCE and terms of reference to ensure it is operating at maximum The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the effectiveness and recommend any changes it considers necessary Company.
Whilst he is not deemed to be independent, the majority to the Board for approval.
of the members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision A.
ACTIVITIES IN 2009 When dealing with any matters concerning the Chairman of the At its meetings in 2009, the Committee considered, amongst Company, the chairman of the Committee will absent himself other matters, the following: from meetings, as required, and Lord Renwick would take the chair.
reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees to Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings ensure the appropriate mix of skills and experience are present: The attendance of members at scheduled meetings of the recommended to the Board the appointment of Peter Hickson and Nomination Committee which they were eligible to attend Clinton Dines as independent non-executive Directors: and the number of meetings attended during 2009 is recommended to the Board the appointment of Philip Aiken as a shown below: Number of scheduled Number of scheduled member of the Nomination Committee, Clinton Dines as a member Members Nomination Committee Nomination Committee of the Audit Committee and Peter Hickson as a member of the Audit during the year meetings eligible to attend meetings attended and Group Health, Safety and Environment Committees: Vladimir Kim 32 reviewed the time commitment required by non-executive Simon Heale 33 Directors to full their duties: and Lord Renwick 33 reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the performance There have been no meetings of the Nomination Committee since evaluation of the Committee.
Philip Aiken became a member on 26 August 2009.
