40 Keller Group plc Corporate governance The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is Group and its performance, including any significantly accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate underperforming business activities: and governance and this statement describes how the Company has leadership of executive management to enable the Groups applied the principles of the June 2008 Combined Code as set businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: out at http: www.
cfm ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised the Code.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2009, save as management resources: otherwise explained in the paragraph headed Compliance with the Code on page 42, the Board believes that the Company was ensuring succession planning: and in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
The Board Directors and Directors independence The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four other Nonmain roles are: to create value for shareholders: to provide executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The names of the entrepreneurial leadership of the Group: to approve the Groups Directors at the date of this report, together with their biographical strategic objectives: and to ensure that the necessary financial details, are set out on pages 30 and 31.
All these Directors served and other resources are made available to enable those throughout the year.
In addition, Dr Michael West served as objectives to be met.
The Board has a schedule of matters Chairman of the Board until he retired on 31 July 2009. reserved for its approval which is kept under review.
The Board considers all the Non-executive Directors, with the Specific responsibilities of the Board include: setting Group exception of the Chairman and Mr Lpez Jimnez, to be strategy and approving the annual budget: reviewing operational independent of management.
Mr Lpez Jimnez is associated with and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, GTCEISU Construccin, S. A. GTCEISU, which is a 49% divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing the Groups shareholder in Keller-Terra S. L. and a 5.6% shareholder in Keller systems of internal controls and risk management: ensuring that Group plc.
Whilst the Board considers Mr Lpez Jimnez to be appropriate management development and succession plans are independent in character and judgement, he is not deemed to in place: providing leadership for, and reviewing the Groups be independent of management under the Code, in view of performance in, environmental, health and safety matters: GTCEISUs shareholding in Keller Group plc.
approving appointments to the Board: and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and Directors contracts.
Mr Franklin was independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2009.
Board papers and other relevant information are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help Board Committee meetings.
This information is supplemented by to develop proposals on strategy and bring strong independent information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Mr Brown is the Senior Independent Director.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between Mr Franklin as There is an agreed procedure for individual Directors to obtain Non-executive Chairman and Mr Atkinson who, as Chief independent professional advice and all Directors have Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running of unrestricted access to the Company Secretary and Chairman.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining to the leadership of the Board: The Chairman has other professional commitments, as detailed ensuring appropriate Board composition: on page 31. ensuring effective Board processes: The Board had eight scheduled meetings during the year.
A table setting the Boards agenda: showing attendance at these meetings, and at meetings of Board ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take Committees, is set out on page 41.
All Directors receive Board a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee papers well in advance of meetings and it is usual for Directors discussions: who cannot attend a given meeting to discuss the business of the meeting in advance with the Chairman or the Senior Independent ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and Director, in order to have input into the Boards deliberations.
ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
As part of our policy of holding at least one Board meeting a year at an operational location, one of the Board meetings in 2009 was held in Australia, giving the Board an opportunity to visit job sites, The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: to receive presentations on the regions markets and prospects formulating strategy proposals for the Board: and to meet some of the Groups senior managers.
formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this In addition, during the year the Chairman met with the Nonstrategy will be delivered: executive Directors without the Executive Directors present and there was regular informal contact between the Directors.
Keller Group plc 41 Directors conflicts of interests Relations with shareholders Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that directors Throughout the year, the Company regularly meets with and have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they have, makes presentations to institutional investors in the UK, or can have, an interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, Continental Europe and the US.
These include meetings following with the interests of the Company.
During the year, the Board the announcement of the annual and interim results with the conducted its annual review of the interests of the Directors Companys largest institutional shareholders on an individual which, with the exception referred to below, did not represent basis.
Following his appointment as Chairman, Mr Franklin is conflicts or potential conflicts with the Company.
available on request to meet with shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Mr Brown, is also available should The Board again considered Mr Lpez Jimnezs interest as shareholders have concerns which contact through the Chairman and a shareholder in GTCEISU Construccin, S. A channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director have GTCEISU.
In 2002, GTCEISU and Keller created Keller-Terra S. L. not resolved.
All major shareholders have the opportunity on a joint venture for the development of the business in Spain, request to meet new Non-executive Directors on appointment.
which is 51% owned by the Group.
On a regular basis, the Board is apprised of the views of the investment community through the circulation of brokers As at the previous review, the Board recognised that the coresearch notes and feedback from analysts and investors, operation between Keller and GTCEISU and Mr Lpez Jimnezs supplemented by occasional investor perception surveys.
subsequent appointment brought clear benefits to the Company in terms of business development, industry knowledge and The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all the expertise.
Mr Lpez Jimnezs other interests in the ground Directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the engineering sector were well known to the Board at the time meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings of his appointment.
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it have ended.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, detailing continued to be in the best interests of the Company to retain the all proposed resolutions, is posted to shareholders at least services of Mr Lpez Jimnez as a Director of the Company and, 20 working days prior to the meeting.
in accordance with the authority granted by shareholders at the Companys 2008 Annual General Meeting, the Board authorised The Group maintains a corporate website, www.
co. uk, the potential conflict presented by his interest in GTCEISU, containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, subject to certain conditions and to an ongoing annual review.
including presentations to institutional investors and analysts.
The website is updated with all formal communications to the Professional development investment community immediately following their release through On appointment, Directors are provided with information about a recognised news service.
the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Board Board committees Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
The number of full Board and Committee meetings attended by This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with each Director during the year was as follows: certain senior executives to develop the Directors understanding Scheduled Remuneration Audit Nomination of the business.
Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors are 8 2 4 2 continually updated on the Groups business, its markets, social R A Franklin responsibility matters and other changes affecting the Group and Chairman since 1 8 09 8 1 3 1 the industry in which it operates, including changes to the legal J M West and governance environment and the obligations on themselves Chairman until 31 7 09 3n a n a 1 as Directors.
J R Atkinson Chief Executive 8 n a n a 2 Performance evaluation and re-election Following a thorough evaluation of the Board and its Committees J W G Hind in 2008 with facilitation by independent consultants, the Board Finance Director 8 n a n a n a did not conduct a formal review in 2009, although the Audit R M Rubright Committee did conduct a review of its effectiveness during the Executive Director 8 n a n a n a year.
Having considered the question, the Board concluded that it Dr W Sondermann was appropriate to defer the next Board evaluation until the new Executive Director 8 n a n a n a Chairman had been in post for an appropriate period and he will Dr K Bond lead this process during 2010.
Non-executive Director 7 2 3 2 E G F Brown All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Non-executive Director 7 2 3 2 Annual General Meeting following their appointment and, subject to satisfactory performance evaluation where appropriate, to P J Lpez Jimnez re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive Director 6 n a n a n a R T Scholes Non-executive Director 8 2 4 2 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of scheduled meetings in the period.
42 Keller Group plc Corporate governance Continued Committee terms of reference reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Audit and control and its effectiveness and receiving regular updates on Nomination Committees are kept under regular review and are key risk areas of financial control: available on the Companys website.
reviewing the Groups draft financial statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the Auditors reports thereon: Remuneration Committee reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing policy and monitoring The Remuneration Committee was chaired throughout the year the procedures in place for employees to be able to raise by Mr Brown, an Independent Non-executive Director.
The other matters of possible impropriety: members during the year, all of whom were also Independent Non-executive Directors during the period of their membership, reviewing the Groups policy on the employment of former are shown on page 34. employees of the Auditors: reviewing the Groups policy on employment of the Auditors This Committee is responsible for agreeing with the Board the for non-audit services: framework and policy for the remuneration of the Groups executive management and for determining the remuneration reviewing the Committees terms of reference and evaluating packages of the Executive Directors.
The Directors Remuneration its effectiveness: Report is set out on pages 34 to 39. reviewing the need for an internal audit function: and approving a rolling three-year programme of independent reviews Nomination Committee of aspects of the Groups operations and financial controls and The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the receiving reports on all reviews carried out during the year.
Board, except to the extent that it deals with succession to the chairmanship of the Board, in which case the Senior Independent In considering the need for an internal audit function, the Director assumes this role.
The other members during the year Committee took account of the Groups broad geographic spread were Dr West until his retirement on 31 July 2009, Mr Atkinson, and cultural diversity, recognising that the Groups key risks lie in Dr Bond, Mr Brown, Mr Franklin, and Mr Scholes.
The Nomination its tendering processes and in the operational controls over the Committees role is to monitor the composition and balance of performance of work, which a traditional, finance-focused internal the Board and recommend to the Board the appointment of new audit function would not be capable of addressing effectively.
Where appointments to the Board are under The Committee remained of the view that the existing structured consideration, the Committee will normally employ external search programme of independent reviews was the best way of consultants, except where exceptional internal candidates have addressing the Groups key risks and that these should be already been identified.
The Committee met twice during the year: once to conclude its The Committees annual evaluation of the Auditors focused on: deliberations regarding the Board Chairmans succession and the calibre of the audit firm including reputation, presence in the once to consider the overall composition of the Board.
industry, size, resources and geographic spread : its quality control processes: the quality of the team assigned to the audit: Audit Committee the audit scope, fee and audit communications: and the The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Scholes, who is a governance and independence of the audit firm.
The other members during the year were Dr Bond, Mr Brown and Mr Franklin, who stood down as a Any work awarded to the external Auditors, other than audit member upon his appointment as Chairman of the Board on or tax compliance, with a value in excess of 50,000 requires 1 August 2009.
All members of the Committee are Independent the specific approval of the Committee.
Where the Committee Non-executive Directors.
The Board has satisfied itself that at perceives that the independence of the Auditors could be least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant compromised, the work will not be awarded to them.
the amounts paid to the external Auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the consolidated This Committee usually meets four times a year, with the financial statements.
Companys external Auditors the Auditors in attendance.
At least twice a year, the Committee meets privately with the Auditors.
Compliance with the Code The Committee assists the Board in observing its responsibility for The Board believes that the Company was compliant with the ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and Code throughout the year, save in the following respect.
up-to-date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair The Company has not, throughout the full year, met the reflection of this position.
It also reviews annually the Groups requirement of the Code for at least half the board, excluding the systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and chairman, to comprise independent non-executive directors.
As evaluating the risks facing the Group.
previously stated, whilst under the Code Mr Lpez Jimnez is not deemed to be independent of management, the Board considers Since the start of 2009, the Audit Committee has discharged its him to be independent in character and judgement.
responsibilities by: reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its costFurther, since his appointment as Chairman of the Board on effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the 1 August 2009, Mr Franklin is no longer deemed to be independent Auditors: under the Code.
reviewing and approving the Auditors engagement letter and audit fee: Keller Group plc 43 Internal control d Budgeting and forecasting The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such budget approved by the Board.
This budget includes monthly a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flows.
of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only In addition, detailed quarterly forecasts are prepared for the reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material two subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are updated misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, e Financial reporting evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which which has been in place for the year under review and up to the compare profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process and other information with budget and prior year, and significant is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The principal elements of the internal control framework are f Cash control as follows: Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortand a Risk identification and evaluation medium-term cash positions and to control immediate borrowing Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of requirements.
significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks g Investments and capital expenditure may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources All significant investment decisions, including capital expenditure, including market cycles, acquisitions, people, technical risks such are referred to the appropriate divisional or Group authority level.
as engineering and project management, control breakdowns, disruptions in information systems, natural catastrophe and h Independent reviews regulatory requirements.
The identified risks, and the controls in The Group has a structured programme of independent, place to manage them, are subject to continual reassessment.
outsourced reviews, covering tendering, operational processes The Audit Committee formally reviews this process once every and internal financial controls.
The intention is to conduct an two years.
independent review of all material business units at least once every three to four years.
This programme is approved and The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes monitored by the Audit Committee, which reviews the findings in the business and the external environment that affect significant of each such exercise.
The Finance Director provides the Board with monthly financial information which includes key performance and risk i Self-certification indicators.
Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of internal financial and non-financial controls for which b Authorisation procedures they are responsible: and their compliance with Group policies, Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable local laws and regulations: and to report any control weaknesses trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across identified in the past year.
Group operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, The management of financial risks is described in the Financial to the Board.
Review on pages 23 and 24 and the management of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is described on page 24. c Management of project risk Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding stage to completion.
Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority limits applicable to the approval of bids relate to the risks and total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which Keller is a party.
Any bids involving an unusually high degree of technical or commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory where we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level within the operating company.
The average time on site is around six weeks but larger contracts may extend over several months.
The performance of contracts is monitored and reported by most business units on a weekly basis.
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing jobs and full cost-tocomplete assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration contracts.
