FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT 46 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Code The principal matters considered by the Board during the year The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate included: conduct and is committed to managing the Groups operations in accordance with the best principles of corporate governance as the Groups budgets, strategy, structure and financial requirements: contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 and has complied with it throughout the full and interim reports and accounts taking into account the the year except as explained below.
views of the Audit Committee : Independent non-executive directors comprise less than half of the Board.
During the course of the year Mr R W Side retired as an executive interim management statements: director and no additional executive director was appointed in his place, nor is any such appointment anticipated.
Furthermore, Mr N P Winser the Groups final salary pension scheme: was appointed as an additional independent non-executive director on 1 March 2009.
The Board balance has therefore moved closer to the implications of and proper approach to the issues with the Code provisions during the course of the year.
Notwithstanding this, Castlepoint Shopping Centre car park, Bournemouth: the Company maintains its view that given the structure of the Group it is important that each division is represented at executive level on potential acquisitions: the Board.
It is also felt that to increase the number of independent non-executives to a level where parity was attained would lead to the implications of prevailing economic conditions and the appropriate an unduly large and unwieldy board, without delivering any tangible response to them: benefit to shareholders.
For these reasons the Company continues to believe that whilst the current board structure does not comply with material operational opportunities: the Code, it is satisfactorily balanced in practice, with the independent non-executives having a substantial presence in board debate.
health & safety strategies and particular issues as they arose: Until 1 March 2009 neither the Remuneration Committee nor the Audit Committee comprised three independent non-executive the investigation by the Office of Fair Trading into alleged cover pricing directors, nor were the majority of members of the Nomination by a Group company: and Committee independent non-executive directors.
This was addressed on 1 March 2009 with the appointment of Mr N P Winser as an presentations as to strategic issues from the senior management of independent non-executive director and his concurrent appointment a number of the divisions.
to the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
The Groups chairman is Mr P M White who leads the Board.
He is Board of directors responsible for its effectiveness and sets its agenda.
He facilitates The Board of Kier Group plc is responsible to its shareholders for the the effective contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures success of the Company.
It sets the strategic and financial policies of a positive and constructive relationship between the executive and the Group, monitors and reviews business performance and controls non-executive directors.
The chairman is also responsible for effective risk.
As part of the Groups organisational structure described on page communication with shareholders.
49 under Internal control the Board has put in place standing orders The chief executive is Mr J Dodds who is responsible for the which are designed to ensure the provision to it of relevant information operational management of the Group and is accountable to the Board on a timely basis, which set authorisation limits and which reserve for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
In order to facilitate certain matters for the Board or its committees, including: this, the chief executive meets monthly with a management committee comprising the other executive directors and he also chairs monthly strategy and financial policy: management meetings with each of the divisions.
He is the director responsible for human resource matters and health & safety and the approval of financial statements: meets regularly with the director of safety, health & environment.
The senior non-executive director is Mr C V Geoghegan.
risk management: Biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The Board considers Mr C V Geoghegan, Mr S W Leathes, and major capital expenditure: Mr N P Winser to be independent.
A table of attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and major project approval: its various committees is set out on page 48.
In addition to these meetings, the full Board attends a number of away-days annually acquisitions and disposals: and which focus on strategy, material issues facing the Group and succession planning.
Outside of the formal schedule of meetings, the certain aspects of human resource policy, including senior non-executive directors met without the executive directors a number appointments, general salary reviews, employee share plans and of times during the year.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and the directors are able to seek independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
Training is available for new directors and subsequently as necessary.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED following their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals The Committee reviewed the performance of KPMG and the level of of no more than three years.
Executive directors are required to seek non-audit fees paid to them during the year, which are set out in note approval from the Board before accepting any external non-executive 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The provision of non-audit positions, although none is currently held.
services, other than tax compliance and routine taxation advice, must The Remuneration Committee and Board encourage directors and be referred to and agreed by the Committee over a predetermined staff at all levels to acquire shares in the Company and to hold them cost threshold and any work costed below that threshold must be for the longer term.
This sense of ownership is an important element pre-approved by the Group finance director.
of Kiers culture and of its focus on long-term performance.
As far as No consultancy related work has been carried out by the auditors possible the Group prefers to promote individuals from within.
The Committee was satisfied, following its review, that KPMGs objectivity and independence had not been impaired.
Board evaluation The Committee agreed and approved the audit fee following The chairman carried out an evaluation of the Board during the year.
discussions between divisional management and the divisional KPMG This included all the committees of the Board.
The chairman held audit teams.
individual meetings with each director to discuss their views and to The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and were canvass suggestions.
The conclusions were discussed collectively updated in 2004 in line with the guidance and recommendations of by the Board and a number of actions agreed.
The performance of the revised Combined Code.
The terms of reference are available on the chairman is reviewed separately in a process led by the senior request and on the Companys website.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Remuneration Committee directors are available for inspection at the registered office and will The Remuneration Committee comprises the chairman and the be on display prior to and at the annual general meeting.
three independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Mr C V Geoghegan.
Audit Committee Information about the workings of this Committee is contained The Audit Committee comprises the three independent non-executive in the directors remuneration report on page 50.
The Committee directors under the chairmanship of Mr S W Leathes, a chartered makes recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework accountant with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee of executive remuneration and determines, on its behalf, specific met twice during the year in September and February.
The meeting remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
In doing normally held in June was held in July.
These Committee meetings were so it takes the advice of independent external consultants.
The terms also attended by the finance director and the head of internal audit.
The of reference are available on the Companys website.
KPMG audit engagement director attended these meetings.
The chairman and executive directors were also invited to attend the meetings.
The Nomination Committee Committee also met with KPMG without management being present.
The Nomination Committee presently comprises the chairman, the chief The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which outline executive and the non-executive directors.
It is responsible for monitoring its objectives and responsibilities relating to financial reporting, the composition and balance of the Board, making recommendations internal controls, risk management and the application of appropriate to the Board on new Board appointments and succession planning.
Specific responsibilities include The Committee met twice during the year.
The Committees terms of reviewing and recommending for approval the annual and interim reference are available on the Companys website.
financial statements, reviewing the Groups accounting policies, reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management Board and Committee meetings and reviewing the scope and results of the external audit.
Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board, The Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the Group Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out in the internal audit function including approval of the annual risk-based audit table below.
plan and monitoring the work, recommendations and effectiveness of the function.
The head of internal audit reports directly to the chairman Name of director Board 11 Audit 2 Remuneration 2 Nomination 2 of the Committee.
P M White 11 2 2 At each of its meetings the Committee received and reviewed a J Dodds 11 2 report from the head of internal audit which highlighted the status of the Group risk management processes and audit activity against C V Geoghegan 11 2 2 2 the approved plan together with the findings from internal audits.
I M Lawson 11 The chairman of the Committee also met regularly with the head of D E Mattar 11 internal audit and the Committee has met with the head of internal M P Sheffield 11 audit without management being present.
The Committee has carried 1 out a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
R W Side 4 The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence R W Simkin 11 and objectivity of KPMG, the external auditor, and agreeing the level S W Leathes 11 2 2 2 of remuneration and extent of non-audit services.
The Committee 2 N P Winser 4 1 received a presentation from KPMG on its audit strategy and the scope 1 Mr R W Side retired from the Board on 8 November 2008 of work at the February meeting which it agreed.
It also discussed the 2 Mr N P Winser was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2009 firms professional ethical standards.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 48 49 Internal control internal audits carried out to assess the adequacy and effectiveness The Combined Code requires that the directors review the effectiveness of internal controls.
The scope of the internal audit work is planned of the Groups system of internal control.
This extends the directors to cover the key risks faced by the business and supplemented by review to cover all material controls, including operational, compliance cyclical reviews of the core financial process.
Internal audit findings and financial controls and risk management systems.
The directors are are reported to the Audit Committee and the executive directors on satisfied that procedures are in place to ensure that the Group complies a regular basis: with the Turnbull Committee guidance published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and that the procedures risk registers which are in place for each business unit highlighting have been applied during the year.
key risks facing that business together with an assessment of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal effectiveness of controls to mitigate those risks.
The risk registers control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board considers that the are updated regularly and at 31 March: Groups systems and controls are appropriately designed to ensure that the Groups exposure to significant risks is properly managed.
However, an annual process of risk and control self assessment whereby such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of all operating companies are required to review and confirm that failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable appropriate internal controls are in place and operating effectively and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
In reviewing across the key risk areas identified in individual company risk the effectiveness of internal controls, which have been developed and registers.
This assessment was carried out on 31 March 2009 and refined over many years, the directors have considered the key risks the findings reviewed by the Audit Committee: and exposures within the Group.
The key features of the Groups system of internal controls are: regular monitoring, review and reporting of safety, health and environmental matters: and an established management structure operating throughout the Group with clearly defined levels of responsibility and delegation of the provision of a confidential method of reporting any suspected authority: fraud or other misfeasance to the head of internal audit.
clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation The Board receives regular reports from all operating units to monitor limits set at appropriate levels.
These are set out in the Group and their performance and all directors are properly briefed on issues divisional standing orders: arising at Board meetings.
During the course of the year members of the Board visit all a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place which companies and monitor the control framework of each business.
The is regularly reviewed and updated: Audit Committee reviews the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal controls.
a formal quarterly review of each divisions year-end forecast, business performance, risk and internal control matters which is Relations with shareholders carried out by the directors of each division with the chief executive The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with and finance director in attendance: shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
The chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee monthly management reporting including regular comparison of actual are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Group also results against latest forecasts: maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors to assist in the understanding of the Groups objectives and the Company has established policies and procedures governing the Groups investment a programme of regular communication with investors, analysts and in land, property and other significant assets, including acquisitions brokers.
Presentations are made to investors, analysts and press at the and disposals.
These include detailed appraisals, appropriate time of the announcement of the final and half-year results and there authorisation levels and Board approval depending on value or are regular meetings with analysts and investors which are arranged perceived exposure: through the Companys brokers so that the investment community can be kept informed.
The Board is provided with independent feedback investment decisions, including Private Finance Initiative PFI projects from analysts and institutional shareholders periodically.
and tenders for contracts being subject to approval by the Board, the The Companys website is also maintained to aid communication with chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public.
on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
Individual tender and project review procedures are in place prior to bidding and before contract award:
