King sher plc Annual Report 34 Corporate governance and Accounts 2008 09 The Board is committed to high standards The Board has a formal schedule of matters In addition to the principal Board meetings, of corporate governance, which it considers reserved to it for its decision.
The schedule a number of other meetings are convened as fundamental to business integrity and is reviewed periodically and includes: to deal with speci c matters.
Directors unable maintaining investors trust and to producing Group strategy, three-year plans and to attend a Board meeting because of another a sustained delivery of value to the Companys annual budgets: engagement are nevertheless provided with shareholders.
The Board expects all its major acquisitions or divestments of all the papers and information relevant for such directors, offi cers and employees to act companies and business: meetings and are able to discuss issues arising with honesty, integrity and fairness and in major changes to the capital structure in the meeting with the Chairman or the Group accordance with all relevant laws and customs.
including tax and treasury management: Chief Executive.
changes to accounting policies or practices: approval of all financial announcements, Division of responsibilities Compliance with the Combined Code the annual report and accounts and To ensure that no one person has unfettered The Companys ordinary shares are listed in shareholder communications: powers of decision, the roles of the Chairman the UK on the London Stock Exchange and the system of internal control and risk and Group Chief Executive are separate on the Paris Bourse in France.
In addition, the management policy: and and there is a clear and established division Company has entered into a sponsored level review of management development strategy.
of responsibilities agreed by the Board.
one American Depositary Receipt programme The Chairman is responsible for the operation, with the Bank of New York Mellon, under Other speci c responsibilities are delegated leadership and governance of the Board: which the Companys shares are traded to Board Committees which operate within ensuring its effectiveness and setting its on the over-the-counter market in the form clearly fide ned terms of reference.
He also meets separately with the of American Depositary Receipts.
information on the responsibilities of the Board non-executive directors during the year.
The Committees are given on pages 35 to 36.
Group Chief Executive is responsible for the In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK management of the Groups business and the Listing Authority, the Company con rms that Board meetings implementation of Board strategy and policy.
throughout the year ended 31 January 2009 The Board meets at least 10 times a year and as at the date of this Annual Report, it was and the meetings are structured to allow open Board balance and independence compliant with the provisions of, and applied discussion.
All directors participate in discussing The Companys Board consists of nine directors, the principles of Section 1 of the 2006 FRC the strategy, trading and financial performance eight of whom served throughout the 2008 09 Combined Code on Corporate Governance and risk management of the Company.
In addition to the Chairman, the Combined Code.
The following section substantive agenda items have comprehensive Peter Jackson, there were two executive together with the Directors report on pages 30 brie ng papers which are circulated directors and six non-executive directors as to 32, and the Directors remuneration report approximately one week before the meeting.
The executive directors on pages 39 to 47, provide details of how the are Ian Cheshire Group Chief Executive Company applies the principles and complies The following table shows the number of and Kevin OByrne Group Finance Director.
with the provisions of the Combined Code.
years directors have been on the Board as at 1 February 2009 and their attendance at the On 17 March 2009, the Company announced Board organisation principal Board meetings they were eligible that upon conclusion of the AGM to be held The role of the Board to attend during the 2008 09 financial year: on 3 June 2009, Peter Jackson will retire as The Board is responsible for the overall conduct Chairman of the Board and that Daniel Bernard Years on Meetings of the Groups business and has the powers, will succeed him in this role.
At the same Board attended authorities and duties vested in it by the Companys time, John Nelson will assume the role of 1 Peter Jackson 3 10 10 Articles of Association and the relevant laws and Deputy Chairman in addition to retaining Ian Cheshire 8 10 10 regulations governing its operations.
The Board: his responsibilities as Senior Independent Kevin OByrne from 01 10 08 0 4 4 has final responsibility for the management, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 2 Daniel Bernard 2 10 10 direction and performance of the Group: the Remuneration Committee.
Upon his 3 John Nelson 7 10 10 exercises objective judgement on all appointment as Chairman, it is expected Phil Bentley 6 8 10 corporate matters, independent from that Daniel M Bernard will relinquish his Michael Hepher 11 9 10 executive management: membership of the Audit Committee and Janis Kong 2 10 10 is accountable to shareholders for the become a member of the Remuneration Hartmut Krmer 6 10 10 proper conduct of the business: and Committee whilst also assuming the role Duncan Tatton-Brown is responsible for the Groups overall Corporate of Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
until 01 10 08 n a 6 6 Governance arrangements including: independence of directors, review of the 1 John Nelson is the nominated Senior Peter Jackson will retire at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 3 June 2009.
Board and its committees performance Independent Director and his role includes 2 Daniel Bernard will become Chairman at the conclusion and approval of Group policies.
being available for approach or representation of the Companys AGM on 3 June 2009.
3 from signi cant shareholders who may feel In addition to his role as Senior Independent Director, John Nelson will also become Deputy Chairman at the inhibited from raising issues with the Chairman.
conclusion of the Companys AGM on 3 June 2009.
He is also responsible for conducting an annual review of the performance of the King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 35 2008 09 Chairman and, in the event it should be matters are discussed at each Board meeting.
Performance evaluation necessary, convening a meeting of the Financial plans, including budgets and Performance evaluation of the Board, its non-executive directors.
forecasts, are also regularly discussed at committees and individual directors takes Board meetings.
From time to time, the Board place on an annual basis and is conducted The Company considers all of its present receives detailed presentations from nonwithin the terms of reference of the Nomination non-executive directors to be fully Board members on matters of signi cance Committee with the aim of improving individual independent, including Michael Hepher, or on new opportunities for the Group.
contributions, the effectiveness of the notwithstanding the fact that he has served The non-executive directors periodically visit Board and its committees and the Groups more than 11 years as a director.
Michael different Group companies and are provided performance.
In recent years, the evaluation Hepher has offered himself for re-election with brie ngs and information to assist them has been internally facilitated.
at the AGM this year to provide continuity of in performing their duties.
Board membership as Daniel Bernard takes The Board undertook a formal self-evaluation on his new role as Chairman of the Board.
The Board receives reports concerning of its own performance during the 2008 09 The Board sets out its reasons for determining meetings with institutional shareholders financial year.
The process was led by the his continued independence on page 30. and addressing their issues and concerns.
Chairman and facilitated by the Company This process and reporting allows the directors Secretary and involved the use of an online The executive and non-executive directors are to develop the necessary understanding questionnaire with Company-speci c equal members of the Board and have overall of the views of the shareholders and also questions.
The same process was used to collective responsibility for the direction of the enables the Board to judge whether investors evaluate the performance of each of the Company.
The names and biographical details have a suf cient understanding of the Board committees.
The Board will continue of the current directors are given on page 29.
to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead and the Con icts of interest The Chairman is responsible for ensuring new Chairman will use the output of the The Company has procedures in place to deal that induction and training programmes most recent evaluation as the basis of his with con icts of interest and these procedures are provided.
Individual directors are also initial individual meetings with directors.
The Board is aware expected to take responsibility for identifying of the other commitments of its directors and their individual needs and to take steps to The Chairman leads the assessment of the changes to these commitments are reported ensure that they are adequately informed Group Chief Executive and the non-executive to the Board.
about the Group and their responsibilities directors, the Group Chief Executive undertakes as a director.
The Board is con dent that all the performance reviews for executive directors Board effectiveness its members have the knowledge, ability and and the Senior Independent Director conducts Appointments to the Board experience to perform the functions required the review of the performance of the Chairman.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent of a director of a listed company.
procedure for the appointment of new The evaluations found the performance of directors to the Board.
This is described in the On appointment, each director receives a each director to be effective and concluded section on the Nomination Committee set out tailored induction programme that includes: that the Board provides the effective on page 36.
Individual non-executive directors individual time with the Chairman, leadership and control required for a listed are able to serve up to three three-year terms.
the Group Chief Executive, the Group company.
The Board con rmed that the At the end of each three-year term, an analysis Finance Director and other senior contributions made by the directors offering is undertaken to ensure that the relevant corporate executives: themselves for re-election at the AGM on directors continue to make an effective and visits to the Companys stores and those 3 June 2009 continued to be effective and that valuable contribution to the Board and of competitors: the Company should support their re-election.
demonstrate an appropriate commitment meetings with operating company to the role.
The terms and conditions of management: and Independent advice appointment of the non-executive directors external training courses at the Companys There is an agreed procedure to enable are available for inspection at the Companys expense, if required.
individual directors to take independent legal registered of ce and will be available for and financial advice at the Companys inspection at the AGM from 15 minutes before The Company Secretary provides a expense, as and when necessary, to support the meeting until it ends.
programme of ongoing brie ngs for the the performance of their duties as directors directors that cover a number of legal and of the Company.
Information and professional development regulatory changes and developments Each member of the Board receives monthly relevant to directors areas of responsibility.
Board Committees information including financial results.
The Throughout their period in of ce, the directors The Board has established Nomination, Board pack for meetings includes reports from are continually updated on the Groups Remuneration and Audit Committees and the executive directors in respect of their areas businesses and the regulatory and industryprovides suf cient resources to enable them of responsibility.
The Group Chief Executives speci c environments in which they operate.
Executive directors report deals, amongst other things, with These updates are by way of written brie ngs are not members of these Board committees, trading, management, capital, returns and the and meetings with senior executives and, although they may be invited to attend Companys Delivering Value objectives.
These where appropriate, external sources.
The Board is satis ed that the terms King sher plc Annual Report 36 Corporate governance and Accounts 2008 09 of reference for each of these committees At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee process which identi ed Daniel Bernard as satisfy the requirements of the Combined meets separately with the external auditors successor to Peter Jackson.
The Committees Code and are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
and the Group Audit & Risk Management activities during the year also included The terms of reference for all Board Director without management being present.
considering the appointments of Euan committees can be found on the Companys Further details on the work of the Audit Sutherland and Peter Hogsted as CEO UK website at www.
com or a copy can Committee can be found under Auditors and CEO International respectively.
be obtained by application to the Company and the Audit Committee report on pages Secretary at the Companys registered of ce.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee Each committee has access to such Nomination Committee and the record of their attendance at the information and advice as it deems necessary The members of the Nomination Committee meetings they were eligible to attend during at the cost of the Company.
Each committee and the record of their attendance at the the year are set out below: Meetings attended is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness meetings they were eligible to attend during John Nelson, Chairman 4 4 of its terms of reference, as appropriate, and the year are set out below: Meetings attended Michael Hepher 3 4 for making recommendations to the Board Peter Jackson, Chairman 2 2 Peter Jackson 4 4 for changes where necessary.
The minutes Phil Bentley 1 2 Janis Kong 4 4 of committee meetings are circulated to Daniel Bernard 2 2 all directors.
Michael Hepher 1 2 The responsibilities of the Remuneration Janis Kong 1 2 Committee include: Audit Committee Hartmut Krmer 1 2 determining, on behalf of the Board, The members of the Audit Committee and the John Nelson 2 2 the Companys policy on the remuneration record of their attendance at the meetings they of the Chairman, the executive directors were eligible to attend during the year are set The primary purpose of the Nomination and the senior management team of out below: Meetings attended Committee is to lead the process for Board the Company: Phil Bentley, Chairman 4 4 appointments and to make recommendations determining the total remuneration Daniel Bernard 4 4 for maintaining an appropriate balance of skills packages for these individuals, including Michael Hepher 3 4 on the Board.
The Nomination Committee: any compensation on termination of John Nelson 4 4 reviews the structure, size and composition of ce: and of the Board and makes recommendations appointing consultants in respect of The Audit Committee is comprised of members to the Board, as appropriate: executive directors remuneration.
having the necessary ability and experience identi es the balance of skills, knowledge to understand financial statements.
Solely for and experience on the Board and nominates The Group Chief Executive may attend the purpose of ful lling the requirements of the candidates to ll Board vacancies: the Remuneration Committees meetings Combined Code, the Board has designated reviews the time required from a nonby invitation.
He does not attend when Phil Bentley as the committee member with executive director: his individual remuneration is discussed recent and relevant financial experience.
considers succession planning, taking into and no director is involved in deciding his Further details on Phil Bentley can be found account the challenges and opportunities own remuneration.
in Board of Directors on page 29. facing the Group and the future skills and expertise needed on the Board: and Further information on the Remuneration Under its terms of reference, the Audit reviews the leadership needs of the Committees activities is contained in the Committee is required, amongst other things: organisation, both executive and nonDirectors remuneration report on pages to monitor the integrity of the financial executive, with a view to ensuring the 39 to 47. statements of the Company: continued ability of the organisation to to review, understand and evaluate the compete effectively in the marketplace.
Retail Board Companys internal financial, risk, and The executive directors, together with the other internal controls and their The Nomination Committee meets periodically divisional chief executives and certain other associated systems: when required and external advisers may be Group functional heads meet 12 times a year to monitor and review the effectiveness invited to attend.
Following the termination as the Retail Board under the chairmanship of the Companys internal audit function of Duncan Tatton-Browns service agreement, of the Group Chief Executive.
The Retail on an annual basis: the Nomination Committee conducted a Board is responsible for the day-to-day to oversee the relationship with the external rigorous search and selection process with management of the Groups businesses auditors, making recommendations to the assistance of specialist recruitment and the overall financial performance of the the Board in relation to the appointment, consultants, which identi ed Kevin OByrne Group in ful lment of strategy, plans and remuneration and terms of engagement: and as the most suitable candidate for the role budgets.
It is also responsible for making to monitor and review the external of Group Finance Director.
In addition, and recommendations on: auditors independence, objectivity and with the support of specialist recruitment monthly Group trading performance: effectiveness and to approve the policy consultants, Committee members were also the Groups capital structure and funding: on the engagement of the external auditor involved in the assessment and interview capital expenditure proposals, major to supply non-audit services.
of potential successors to the Chairman, a acquisitions or disposals of businesses: King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 37 2008 09 the Groups key risks: of this Annual Report.
These procedures are external auditors, , management development and senior subject to regular review and provide an to the Audit Committee and management.
executive succession plans: ongoing process for identifying, evaluating the Groups corporate responsibility and managing the signi cant risks faced Any controls and procedures, no matter programme: and by the Group.
how well-designed and operated, can provide the individual progress of operating only reasonable and not absolute assurance companies.
The internal audit function: of achieving the desired control objectives.
works with the operating companies Management is required to apply judgement The Group Chief Executive reports to to develop, improve and embed risk in evaluating the risks facing the Group in the Board on issues, progress and management tools and processes into achieving its objectives, in determining the recommendations for change.
Details their business operations: risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in of the executive team forming part of the oversees the operation of the individual assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned Retail Board and their biographical details operating businesses audit committees: materialising, in identifying the Companys are set out on pages 6 to 7. ensures that business risks are identi ed, ability to reduce the incidence and impact on managed and regularly reviewed by the business of risks that do materialise and Company Secretary management at all levels of the Group in ensuring the costs of operating particular The Company Secretary acts as Secretary and that directors are periodically appraised controls are proportionate to the bene t. to the Board and its committees and, with of the key risks in accordance with the the consent of the Board, may delegate Turnbull Guidance 2005: The Board con rms that it has reviewed the responsibility for the administration of the provides the Audit Committee and the effectiveness of the internal control system, committees to other suitably quali ed staff.
He: Board with objective assurance on the including financial, operational and compliance assists the Chairman in ensuring that control environment across the Group: and controls and risk management in accordance all directors have full and timely access monitors adherence to the Groups key with the Combined Code for the period from to all relevant information: policies and principles.
3 February 2008 to the date of approval of is responsible for ensuring that the correct this Annual Report.
Following a review of its Board procedures are followed and advises Management at each operating company operating model, the Group is restructuring its the Board on corporate governance has responsibility for the identi cation and business in China.
The directors consider that, matters: and evaluation of the signi cant risks applicable to with hindsight, B&Q China expanded too administers the procedure under which their business and any mitigating actions to be quickly following the acquisition of OBI in 2005 directors can, where appropriate, obtain taken through the Retail Board, which reviews, and became too reliant on local vendors with independent professional advice at the identi es and evaluates the risks that are the result that controls over inventory and Companys expense.
signi cant at a Group level as well as the supply chain management, including product mitigating actions against those risks.
The Group The appointment or removal of the Company are then considered by the Board.
The type of has deployed additional experienced Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
risks identi ed include strategic risk, external management and enhanced controls to factors such as competition, environment and remedy this signi cant weakness.
Further Accountability, risk management and regulation, change management programmes, controls training will be undertaken in 2009 10. internal control health and safety, retention of key management The Board considers risk assessment, and macro market risks.
Auditors identi cation of mitigating actions and internal Following a recommendation by the Audit control to be fundamental to achieving the Monitoring and review activities Committee a resolution proposing the Companys strategic corporate objectives.
There are clear processes for monitoring the re-appointment of  This system of internal control is: system of internal control and reporting any LLP as Auditors to the Company will be put the Boards overall responsibility: signi cant control failings or weaknesses to the 2009 AGM.
regularly reviewed for its effectiveness by both together with details of corrective action.
the Board and the Audit Committee: and These include: The Companys policy on the use of its in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005. a formal biannual con rmation provided Auditors for non-audit work was reviewed and by the finance director of each operating updated in 2008.
The Auditors are precluded However, such a system is designed to company certifying the operation of their from engaging in non-audit services that would manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure control systems and highlighting any compromise their independence or violate any to achieve business objectives and can provide weaknesses, the results of which are laws or regulations affecting their appointment only reasonable and not absolute assurance reviewed by regional management, the as Auditors.
The approval of the Chairman against material misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee and the Board: of the Audit Committee is required prior to periodic examination of business processes awarding contracts for non-audit services The Board has approved a set of policies, on a risk basis including reports on controls to the external auditors in excess of speci ed procedures and frameworks for effective throughout the Group undertaken by the amounts.
The external auditors report to internal control that implement the Turnbull internal audit function which reports directly the Audit Committee annually on their Guidance, Internal Control: Revised Guidance to the Audit Committee: and independence from the Company.
Periodic for Directors on the Combined Code, for the reports on certain internal controls and rotation of key audit partners is also required.
year under review and to the date of approval relevant financial reporting matters from the King sher plc Annual Report 38 Corporate governance and Accounts 2008 09 Each of the Groups businesses is consulted regular meetings with institutional investors to those in attendance at the meeting, on the effectiveness and independence of and analysts by the Group Chief Executive published on the Companys website and the Auditors annually.
In addition, the Auditors to discuss business performance: and announced via the regulatory news service provide the Audit Committee with a schedule a section dedicated to shareholders on the shortly after the conclusion of the AGM.
of each matter on which there was an initial Companys website, www.
difference between them and management in relation to the accounting treatment, with The Chairman, the Senior Independent the advice if needed of the rms technical Director and the chairmen of the Board committee, and with the final decisions on committees are available to meet major these issues.
The Audit Committee considers investors on request.
The Senior Independent whether the audit should go out to tender Director has a speci c responsibility to be but has taken the view that partner rotation available to shareholders who have concerns, at both the Group and operating business and for whom contact with the Chairman, Group level has been suf cient to maintain the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director necessary independence.
has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
In addition to their statutory duties,  LLP is also At the 2008 AGM, shareholders approved employed where, as a result of its position amendments to the Articles which enabled as auditor, it either must, or is best placed the Company to take advantage of the to, perform the work in question.
This is provision of the Companies Act 2006 to primarily work in relation to matters such communicate with its shareholders as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, electronically.
Following that approval, unless tax advice, regulatory lings and certain a shareholder has speci cally asked to receive business acquisitions and disposals.
a hard copy, shareholders will be noti ed Other work is awarded on the basis of of the availability of the Annual Report on competitive tendering.
For the 2009 reporting season, shareholders During the year,  LLP will receive a notice of availability and form of charged the Group 2.3m 2007 08: 1.9m for proxy in paper through the post.
Shareholders audit and audit-related services and a further continue to have the option to appoint proxies 0.9m 2007 08: 1.1m for non-audit services.
and give voting instructions electronically.
Relations with shareholders The principal means of communication The Company is committed to with private investors is by electronic communicating its strategy and activities communications and through the AGM, clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, an occasion attended by all the Companys maintains an active dialogue with investors directors and at which all shareholders through a planned programme of investor present are given the opportunity to relations activities.
The investor relations question the Chairman and the Board programme includes: as well as the chairmen of the Board formal presentations of full-year and committees.
After the AGM, shareholders interim results: can meet informally with directors.
conference calls to discuss quarterly trading statements: A summary business presentation is given at regular meetings between institutional the AGM before the Chairman deals with the investors and senior management to formal business of the meeting.
At the AGM ensure that the investor community on 3 June 2009, the Chairman will use his receives a balanced and complete view discretion to call for a poll on all substantive of the Groups performance and the resolutions.
This will bring the Company in line issues faced by the Group: with best practice and the recommendation hosting investors and analysts sessions in the 2005 Myners Report, Review of the at which senior management from impediments to voting UK shares.
The Board relevant operating companies deliver considers that the use of polls for voting presentations which provide an overview on substantive resolutions will usually of individual businesses: be appropriate since it produces a more responding to enquiries from transparent method of voting and an exact shareholders through the Companys and fide nitive result.
The results of the votes investor relations team: in relation to all resolutions will be disclosed
