King sher plc Annual Report 48 Audit Committee report and Accounts 2008 09 The Audit Committee consists of four independent Risk management and internal control External auditors non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Phil The Committee reviewed the process During the year, the Committee reviewed the Bentley, who is a quali ed accountant and by which the Group evaluated its control assurances from PwC con rming the external was, until his promotion to Managing Director environment, its risk assessment process auditors independence and objectivity.
It also of British Gas, the Group Finance Director of and the way in which signi cant business reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit Centrica plc and as such is considered to be risks were managed.
These included: services provided by the Auditors to ensure suitably quali ed to be the Audit Committee monitoring the work of the internal audit that there was no impairment of independence.
He, Daniel Bernard, John Nelson function and progress in implementing and Michael Hepher served for the whole year.
the actions committed to as a result of The Committee approved the scope and fees for the previous years independent review audit services provided by PwC and con rmed At the invitation of the Committee, the by an external consultant an update the wording of the recommendations put by the Chairman of the Board and the Group review will be undertaken by the same Board to the shareholders on the appointment Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, external consultant during 2009: and retention of the external auditors.
as did the Group Finance Director, Group considering the internal audit functions reports Audit and Risk Management Director and on the effectiveness of internal controls, The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness the external auditors.
Private meetings were signi cant frauds and any fraud that involved of the external audit and the external auditors also held with the external and internal auditors management or employees with a signi cant performance and have recommended their at which management were not present.
role in internal controls: and reappointment as Auditors to the Board.
reviewing the policy and process enabling The Committee provides an independent overview employees within the Group to make Effectiveness of the Audit Committee of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control con dential disclosures about suspected As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation, the systems and financial reporting processes.
The Audit Committees work was assessed and no The principal responsibilities include monitoring Committee received reports on the results signi cant issues or concerns were highlighted.
the integrity of the financial statements, of investigations and any corrective actions.
including a review of the signi cant financial Phil Bentley reporting judgements contained in them, and As reported on page 37, the review of the Chairman of the Audit Committee overseeing the work of both the internal and effectiveness of the internal control systems 25 March 2009 the external auditors.
The Committees terms of resulted in the identi cation of signi cant reference are available at www.
Corrective action has been taken and regular progress The principal activities of the Audit Committee reports to the Committee have and will during the year ended 31 January 2009 were: continue to be made.
Financial statements Historically King sher has followed a decentralised The Committee considered reports from management model.
Under the new CEO, with the Group Finance Director on the interim the formation of the new Retail Board, the Group and annual financial statements.
It reviewed is being managed on a more integrated basis.
the reports from the external auditors, Under this new approach a programme has been  LLP PwC, on the initiated to standardise and improve control scope and outcome of their interim review processes in a number of areas including IT and annual audit.
The financial statements systems, which the Committee believes will act to were reviewed in light of these reports and the enhance the control environment within King sher.
results of these reviews reported to the Board.
