Governance corporate Governance The Board continues to be committed to high standards of corporate All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
The Board strives to provide the right leadership, strategic tailored Board and committee agenda items and other Board activities, oversight and control environment to produce and sustain delivery including briefing sessions, assist the directors in continually updating of value to all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board applies their skills and the knowledge and familiarity with the Company integrity, principles of good corporate governance and accountability required to fulfil their role both on the Board and on Board committees.
throughout its activities and each director brings independence of In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations are made character and judgement to the role.
All of the members of the Board available to directors.
The Company provides the necessary resources are individually and collectively aware of their responsibilities to the for developing and updating directors knowledge and capabilities.
The Chairman conducts an appraisal with each director.
The Senior The following describes the Boards approach to corporate Independent Director, having consulted with the other directors, governance and how the Combined Code on Corporate Governance conducts an appraisal interview with the Chairman.
Each director has been applied.
completes a questionnaire on the effectiveness and processes of the Board and its committees.
The results are considered by the Board and Compliance statement the individual committees.
In 2009 the Company was subject to and complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Whilst all directors are expected to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources including key that was published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council and which is available via a link on its website www.
appointments and standards of conduct, the independent nonexecutive directors were selected and appointed for this purpose.
Board The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, four The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through executive directors and seven independent non-executive directors.
the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Chairman has a primary responsibility for the running of the Board Appointment and replacement of directors and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief A person may be appointed as a director of the Company by the Executive is responsible for the operations and for the development shareholders in general meeting by ordinary resolution requiring a of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
simple majority of the persons voting on the relevant resolution or by The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief the directors: no person, other than a director retiring by rotation or Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by otherwise, shall be appointed or re-appointed a director at any general the Board.
Mr N M H Jones acts as Senior Independent Director, the meeting unless he or she is recommended by the directors or not less principal roles and responsibilities of which are described elsewhere.
than seven nor more than 35 clear days before the date appointed for The other significant commitments of the Chairman during 2009 are the meeting, notice is given to the Company of the intention to propose detailed in his biography on page 36. that person for appointment or re-appointment in the form and manner set out in the Companys articles of association.
The Board schedules eight meetings each year, but arranges to meet at other times, as appropriate.
There was a full attendance at the Each director who is appointed by the directors and who has not been twelve meetings held in 2009.
In addition, the Chairman met during elected as a director of the Company by the members at a general the year with the non-executive directors without the executive meeting held in the interval since his or her appointment as a director directors present.
of the Company is subject to election as a director of the Company by the members at the first Annual General Meeting following his or The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for her appointment.
Each director is subject to re-election by the members its decision and approval.
These include the approval of the strategic at the third Annual General Meeting following his or her election or last and annual profit plans, key public information releases e. g. financial re-election by the members in general meeting or at such earlier statements, dividends, major acquisitions and disposals, material Annual General Meeting as the directors may decide.
The independent contracts, treasury and other Group policies.
The section Internal non-executive directors understand that the Board will not automatically control on page 40 contains further information on how the recommend their re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman and the Board operates.
independent non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is supplied with of approximately three years, subject to re-election.
appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Companies Act allows shareholders in general meeting by ordinary The Board requests additional information or variations to regular resolution requiring a simple majority of the persons voting on the reporting as it requires.
A procedure exists for directors to seek relevant resolution to remove any director before the expiration of his independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, or her period of office, but without prejudice to any claim for damages if necessary.
All directors have access to the advice and services which the director may have for breach of any contract of service of the Company Secretary.
between him or her and the Company.
A person also ceases to be a director if he or she resigns in writing, ceases to be a director by virtue of any provision of the Companies Act, becomes prohibited by law from being a director, becomes bankrupt or is the subject of a relevant insolvency procedure, or is requested to resign by notice signed by all the other directors or if the Board so decides following at least six months absence without leave or he or she becomes subject to relevant procedures under the mental health laws.
38 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp038-056.
indd 38 25 02 2010 22:16 Powers of the Companys directors The main activities of the committee in 2009 were as follows: The Companys articles of association specify that, subject to the with the assistance of reports received from management and the provisions of the Companies Act, the memorandum and articles external auditor, the critical review of the significant financial reporting of association of the Company and to any directions given by issues in connection with the preparation of the Companys financial shareholders by special resolution, the business of the Company is to and related formal statements: be managed by the directors, who may exercise all the powers of the assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established Company, whether relating to the management of the business or not.
to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks: and Board committees monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial controls.
The Board has four standing committees, all of which have written terms of reference clearly setting out their authority and duties.
The committee does so by reference to: The terms of reference of the audit, nomination and remuneration a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls: committees, which are reviewed annually, can be viewed on the b r egular reports and presentations from the head of key risk Companys website www.
The executive functions, internal audit and external audit: and committee, the risk committee and the compliance committee referred c the r esults of the system of annual self-certification of compliance to elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2009 are not formal with key controls and procedures: board committees.
monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the internal audit function, including any actions taken following any Audit committee significant failures in internal controls: The members of the committee are: reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, the Appointment Committee date Role findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: and Mr H E Staunton 1 September 2006 Chairman reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Mr N M H Jones 16 May 2003 Member The external auditor reports to the committee on the actions taken to Mr D M Shapland 16 February 2010 Member comply with professional and regulatory requirements and with best Ms C P Wicks 1 June 2004 Member practice designed to ensure its independence.
The committee has agreed a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply All members of the committee are independent non-executive non-audit services, the application of which it monitors.
Appointments to the committee are made by the Board which can be viewed on the Companys website www.
at the recommendation of the nomination committee, which consults com, specifies services that may not be provided and contains a with the Chairman of the audit committee.
level of cost at which committee approval is required enabling the The Board has satisfied itself that the members of the committee have committee to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and independence recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake Finance committee its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary This committee meets as required to deal with all routine business that who acts as secretary to the committee and all other employees.
excludes matters that are specifically reserved to the Board or to The committee is able to take independent legal or professional another committee and specific matters delegated to it by the Board advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
requiring attention between scheduled Board meetings.
Any two directors can conduct the business of this committee.
The committee meets as required, but not less than three times a year.
There was full attendance at the four meetings held in 2009.
Although Nomination committee other directors, including the Group Finance Director, attend audit The members of the committee are the Chairman of the Board and two committee meetings, the committee also meets for private discussions or more independent non-executive directors.
The current members of with the external auditor, who attends all of its meetings, and can do the committee are: so with the internal auditor.
Appointment Committee date Role The main role and responsibilities of the committee in 2009 were to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: Mr P Erskine 18 February 2009 Chairman review the Companys internal financial control and risk Mr N M H Jones 16 May 2003 Member management systems: Mr C J Rodrigues 18 May 2007 Member monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and Appointments to the committee are made by the Board.
oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditor The committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake including the recommendation to the Board of its appointment its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary and remuneration.
who acts as secretary to the committee and all other employees.
Should the committees monitoring and review activities reveal any The committee is able to take independent legal and professional material cause for concern or scope for improvement, it will make advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
recommendations to the Board on action needed to address the issue The committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Two meetings of the committee were held in 2009 and all the members of the committee constituting the membership of the committee at the time of each meeting were in attendance.
39 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp038-056.
indd 39 25 02 2010 22:16 Governance corporate Governance continued The main role and responsibilities of the committee are to: the Board established corporate strategy and Group business review the structure, size and composition of the Board which objectives.
Divisional management integrated such objectives into includes an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the balance business strategies for presentation to the Board with supporting of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and make financial objectives: recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: there was an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and consider succession planning for the directors and other senior managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Major business executives and make recommendations to the Board: risks and their financial implications were appraised by the executive identify and nominate for the approval of the Board candidates committee to which a committee of Group and divisional executives to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: the risk committee reported.
This was an integral part of the strategic review the leadership of the Company to ensure the continued ability planning process.
The appropriateness of controls was considered by of the Company to compete effectively in the marketplace: executives, having regard to cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks were recommend candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director and for membership of the audit and remuneration committees, in considered at each regular Board meeting and were formally reviewed and approved by the Board twice yearly: consultation with the Chairmen of those committees: and make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment divisional budgets, containing financial and operating targets, capital of non-executive directors at the end of their specified term of office expenditure proposals and performance indicators, were reviewed by and the re-election by shareholders of any director under the the executive directors and supported divisional business strategies.
The Group profit plan was approved by the Board: reports on Group and divisional performances were regularly provided The committee performed the above activities as necessary in 2009. to directors and discussed at Board meetings.
Performance against During 2009 two non-executive directors, Mrs S Bailey and both budgets and objectives together with management of business Mr D Shapland were appointed both with effect from 18 November risks, were reviewed with divisional management, as were forecasts 2009.
The structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge and material sensitivities.
The Board regularly received reports from and experience of the Board were reviewed.
Descriptions of the roles key executives and functional heads covering areas such as and capabilities required were prepared and suitable candidates were operations, forecasts, business development, strategic planning, identified by external advisers.
human resources, legal and corporate matters, compliance, health Remuneration committee and safety and corporate responsibility: Details of the remuneration committee, including membership, are set there was a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 56, which of investment expenditure and asset disposals.
Major projects were should be read in conjunction with this section of this report.
reported on at each regular Board meeting.
Post investment audits were undertaken on a systematic basis and were formally reviewed Internal control by the Board twice yearly: The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control key policies and control procedures including treasury, compliance operating throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
and information system controls are documented in manuals having No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against Group-wide application.
Operating companies also used procedure material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed to manuals that integrated with Group controls: manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business a system of annual self-certification of compliance with key controls objectives and to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that and procedures was operated throughout the Group: potential problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in a the Group had an internal audit function, outsourced to Deloitte LLP, timely manner for appropriate action.
which reported to management on the Groups operations: and The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year and to underpin the effectiveness of controls, it was the Groups policy to up to 18 February 2010, the date of approval of this Annual Report, recruit and develop management and staff of high calibre, integrity which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the and with appropriate disciplines.
High standards of business ethics Combined Code published in September 1999. and compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies were The Board has delegated the detailed design of the system of internal demanded from staff at all levels.
control to the executive directors.
The role of the audit committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the The control framework and key procedures during 2009 were as follows: system of internal control is explained in the section Audit committee the Group operates through two principal divisions, Retail and on page 39.
Responsibilities for managing business The Board also conducts an assessment of the effectiveness of the risks arising were defined by the Board: internal control system.
The assessment takes account of all significant the executive directors met regularly together and with other senior aspects of internal control including: risk assessment: the control executives the executive committee to consider Group financial environment and control activities: information and communication: performance, business development and Group management issues.
Divisional management comprised executives with appropriate functional responsibilities.
Divisional management met regularly to manage their respective businesses: 40 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp038-056.
indd 40 25 02 2010 22:16 Relations with shareholders These rights can be suspended.
If the member, or any other person There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional appearing to be interested in shares held by that member, has failed shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects.
to comply with a notice pursuant to section 793 of the Companies Act In addition, presentations are made twice yearly after the 2006 notice by company requiring information about interests in its announcement of results, the details of which, together with the shares the Company can suspend until one week after the default Groups financial reports and announcements, can be accessed via ceases the right to attend and speak and vote at a general meeting the Groups internet site.
The Chairman met in 2009 with several and if the shares represent at least 0.25% of their class the Company institutional investors and their representative bodies in addition to can withhold any dividend or other money payable in respect of the results presentations and the Annual General Meeting.
Other directors shares and refuse to accept certain transfers of the relevant shares.
are available to meet the Companys major shareholders if requested.
In addition following certain action by a gambling industry regulator as more specifically set out in the Companys articles of association The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they the Company may suspend all or some of the rights attaching to all or have concerns, which contact through the usual channels of Chairman, some of the shares held by any relevant shareholder to attend and to Chief Executive and Finance Director has failed to solve or for which speak at meetings and to vote, to receive any dividend or other money such contact is inappropriate.
payable in respect of the shares, and to the issue of further shares or The Board receives a monthly market report from the Companys other securities in respect of the shares.
brokers who also present to the Board annually.
A twice-yearly The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is used in presentation is made to the Board reporting on the programme of connection with certain of the Companys employee share ownership meetings with major institutional shareholders and a report on investor plans, held 232,500 ordinary shares in the Company at 31 December relations is given at each Board meeting.
Principles of ownership, 2009 which are not voted by plan members and which it can vote in its corporate governance and voting guidelines issued by the Companys absolute discretion.
major institutional shareholders, their representative bodies and A member may choose whether his or her shares are evidenced by advisory organisations are circulated to, and considered by, the Board.
share certificates certificated shares or held in electronic The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects with its uncertificated form in CREST the UK electronic settlement system.
individual shareholders who have an opportunity to question the Board Any member may transfer all or any of his or her shares subject in the at the Annual General Meeting.
For further information on our relations case of certificated shares to the rules set out in the Companys articles with shareholders please refer to Shareholder Information on pages of association or in the case of uncertificated shares the regulations 126 and 127. governing the operation of CREST which allow the directors to refuse Rights attaching to the shares and restrictions on voting to register a transfer as therein set out : the transferor remains the and transfer holder of the shares until the name of the transferee is entered in the The Companys share capital is 287.0 million divided into register of members.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of 1 1,012,941,175, ordinary shares of 28 3p each.
Subject to any certificated shares in favour of more than four persons jointly or where suspension or abrogation of rights pursuant to relevant law or the there is no adequate evidence of ownership or the transfer is not duly Companys articles of association, the ordinary shares confer on their stamped if so required.
The directors may also refuse to register a holders other than the Company in respect of its treasury shares : share transfer if it is in respect of a certificated share which is not fully a the right to receive out of profits available for distribution such paid up or on which the Company has a lien provided that, where the dividends as may be agreed to be paid in the case of a final share transfer is in respect of any share admitted to the Official List dividend in an amount not exceeding the amount recommended by maintained by the UK Listing Authority, any such discretion may not be the Board as approved by shareholders in general meeting or in the exercised so as to prevent dealings taking place on an open and case of an interim dividend in an amount determined by the Board proper basis, or if in the opinion of the directors and with the all dividends unclaimed for a period of 12 years after having concurrence of the UK Listing Authority exceptional circumstances so become due for payment are forfeited automatically and cease warrant provided that the exercise of such power will not disturb the to remain owing by the Company: market in those shares.
Whilst there are no squeeze-out and sell out b the right, on a return of assets on a liquidation, reduction of capital rules relating to the shares in the Companys articles of association, or otherwise, to share in the surplus assets of the Company shareholders are subject to the compulsory acquisition provisions in remaining after payment of its liabilities pari passu with the other sections 974 to 991 of the Companies Act 2006 and can be required holders of ordinary shares: and by the Company to transfer their shares following certain action by a c the right to receive notice of and to attend and speak and vote in gambling industry regulator as more specifically set out in the person or by proxy at any general meeting of the Company on a Companys articles of association.
show of hands every member present or represented and voting has one vote and on a poll every member present or represented and voting has one vote for every share of which that member is the holder: the appointment of a proxy must be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the relevant meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the relevant meeting or adjourned meeting be received after the poll has been demanded and not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
41 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp038-056.
indd 41 25 02 2010 22:16 Governance corporate Governance continued Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and 14 separate banks for the provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities of up to 825 million on a committed basis provide that the banks may give notice of cancellation if a change of control occurs.
On cancellation the amounts drawn would be immediately repayable.
In the context of a takeover bid, the acquirer would normally arrange substitute facilities.
The agreement between Ladbrokes International Limited LI, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Prima Poker Limited PP, pursuant to which PP granted to the operator a non-exclusive licence to use an interactive gaming system and provides various poker related services to the Company, provides that PP may give notice of termination if a change of control occurs.
On termination LI must pay a turnover related fee on a notional maximum 24 months use of the licence.
An equivalent provision for a similar poker service is included in the agreement between Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Italia S. r. l. a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Prima Networks Limited, save that the turnover related fee is based on a notional maximum of 18 months use of the licence.
The agreement between LI and Microgaming Systems Anstalt MGS, pursuant to which MGS granted to the operator a non-exclusive licence to use an interactive casino system and provides various casino related services to the Company, provides that MGS may give notice of termination if a change of control occurs.
The agreement includes two separate provisions.
The first provision entitles MGS to terminate the agreement if the party acquiring control operates or has an interest in a competing or similar network software provider.
The second provision entitles MGS to terminate the agreement if LI or any affiliate of LI is acquired by a competitor of MGS, and LI must pay a turnover related fee on a notional maximum 24 months use of the licence.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association The Companys articles of association may be amended by the members of the Company by special resolution requiring a majority of at least 75% of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
42 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp038-056.
