statement of direCtors responsibilities in relation to the Consolidated finanCial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws Transparency Rules and regulations.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in pages 36 and 37 of this Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of each Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements persons knowledge and belief: for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Union.
Under Company law the directors must not approve the the directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and review of the development and performance of the business and the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the and uncertainties that they face.
directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the Group web site, www.
Legislation in the UK and prudent: governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements state whether the applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures By order of the board disclosed and explained by the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
C Bell The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records B G Wallace that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Directors disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
109 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp057-129.
