statement of direCtors responsibilities in relation to the Company finanCial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Transparency Rules Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in pages Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 36 and 37 of this Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of each for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected persons knowledge and belief: to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the European Union.
Under Company law the directors must not approve assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true the Directors Report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair and fair view of the state of the Company and of the profit or loss of review of the development and performance of the business and the the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, position of the Company, together with a description of the principal the directors are required to: risks and uncertainties that they face.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of and prudent: the Company website, www.
Legislation in the UK state whether the applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Union have been followed, subject to any material departures may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
disclosed and explained by the financial statements: By order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and C Bell disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of B G Wallace the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Directors and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Company financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
123 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37932 pp057-129.
