Corporate Governance Report The Company is incorporated in the Isle of a sound system of internal controls, of Man, where there is no formal Code reviewing its own and its Committees covering Corporate Governance.
performance, and reviewing the However, as the shares of the Company Companys overall corporate governance are listed on the Official List of the LSE arrangements.
and as the Board is strongly committed to the highest standards of corporate The current membership of the Board governance, the Board applies the and the commitments of the Directors are provisions of the Combined Code on stated on pages 32 and 33, which record Corporate Governance published in 2008 the names of the Chairman, the Senior Code as if the Company was Independent Director and the Chief incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The names of the Chairmen and members of each of the The Code seeks to ensure that the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Company is run in a manner whereby the Committees are detailed below under the interests of shareholders are protected respective Committee summaries.
and as such the Code sets out principles of good corporate governance together The Board met 10 times during the year with specific provisions.
and of these meetings five were conducted by telephone via a conference Statement of compliance with the call.
These meetings were required to provisions of good governance deal with specific business matters which The Directors consider that throughout 2009 arose as part of the normal business of and up to the date hereof, the Company has the Group and which needed to be applied the principles and complied with the addressed between scheduled Board provisions of the Code, subject to exceptions meetings.
In addition, the Board executes identified in this report.
a number of resolutions in writing to conduct Company business.
The The Board Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Board plans to meet at least six times have met without the executives present in a year.
The role of the Board is to when necessary and the Executive provide leadership of the Company, set Directors maintain frequent verbal and values and standards, and to ensure that written contact with the Non-Executive the Companys obligations to its Directors to discuss various issues shareholders and other stakeholders are affecting the Company and its business.
The Board has a formal schedule of The agenda and appropriate supporting matters reserved to itself for decision, Board papers are distributed by the including but not limited to, matters of a Secretary to the Board on a timely basis.
strategic nature, approval of the annual budget, approval of major acquisitions, investments and disposals, major changes to the Groups capital structure, the preparation of financial statements, the recommendation or declaration of dividends, the entry into contracts which are deemed to be material strategically or by reason of size, succession planning and appointments to the Board, executive remuneration, ensuring the maintenance Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Attendance by the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees are summarised in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Meeting description Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 10 4 5 4 1 Jonathan Silver 9 n a n a n a Chairman of the Company Colin Goodall 9 4 5 4 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Richard Raynaut 10 4 5 4 Non Executive Director 2 Brian Fredrick 10 4 5 4 Non Executive Director 3 Nigel McCue 9 n a n a n a Chief Executive Officer 4 Peter Whitbread 10 n a n a n a Director of International Development Scott Doak 9 n a n a n a Chief Financial Officer 1 Jonathan Silver was appointed as the Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009.
2 Brian Fredrick was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2009.
3 Nigel McCue was appointed to the position of the Chief Executive Officer on 27 March 2009 with effect from 1 May 2009.
4 Peter Whitbread resigned as the Chief Executive Officer on 27 March 2009 and was appointed to the position of the Director of International Development with effect from 1 May 2009.
The Group maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Chairman and Chief Executive Section 1 A.
2.2 of the Code states that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual and responsibilities between these roles should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman on appointment should meet the independence criteria set out in Section 1 A.
Nigel McCue is the Chief Executive Officer and Jonathan Silver is the Non-Executive Chairman.
Jonathan Silver is employed by a firm that represents the Company as one of its legal advisers.
Jonathan Silver was therefore not deemed independent on appointment as the Chairman of the Company.
However, the Board and the Nomination Committee, considering his performance, experience and his detailed knowledge of the Company and the Middle East, believe that, despite his lack of independence on appointment, Jonathan Silvers appointment as the Chairman of the Company is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 39 Corporate Governance Report continued Board balance and independence Appointments to the Board The Board currently has seven Directors, All appointments to the Board are consisting of four Non-Executive Directors based on the recommendation of the and three Executive Directors.
The composition considers all the Non-Executive Directors, and working of the Nomination Committee excluding the Chairman, Jonathan Silver, to are explained under Principal Board be independent in accordance with the Committees on pages 42 to 43.
The definition of the Code and their terms and conditions of appointment of appointment to be in the best interests of the Non Executive Directors are available the shareholders.
To that end, half of the for inspection at the registered office of the Board excluding the Chairman as cited Company during normal business hours above, is comprised of Non-Executive and will be available at the AGM fifteen Directors determined by the Board to be minutes prior to the meeting and during independent.
The Directors believe that the the meeting.
extensive knowledge and experience of the Non-Executive Directors combined with Induction and professional the focus and experience of the Executive development Directors, enable the Board to lead and A formal induction programme is give direction to the Group without any provided to new Directors on their imbalance that may allow any individual or appointment.
The programme is Group of individuals to dominate its designed to cover Companies Act decision making.
Any Director having a requirements, dealing restrictions as concern in this or any other regard may outlined in the Disclosure Rules and the raise this with the Chairman or the Senior Model Code on Directors dealings in Independent Director.
securities contained in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority in the Colin Goodall has been appointed as the United Kingdom, Board and business Senior Independent Non-Executive related matters, meetings with senior Director and is available to shareholders if management, site visits and the they have any concerns for which contact opportunity to meet with major through the normal channels of Chairman shareholders.
The Company encourages and Chief Executive Officer or Chief Directors to refresh their knowledge and Financial Officer cannot be resolved or for skills and to keep up to date with the which such contact is inappropriate.
latest developments in corporate governance, financial reporting, the The Board considers that independence is a industry and market conditions.
The matter of judgement and therefore it believes Company reimburses any expenses that the Non-Executive Directors should be incurred in this regard.
free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere in the exercise Major shareholders have had discussions of their independent judgement.
It is the with the Chairman and the Senior Boards policy to provide its Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Directors fair remuneration for the Colin Goodall.
All the Non-Executive contribution they make with respect to the Directors will be available at the AGM to business and affairs of the Company and the meet with major shareholders.
responsibilities they undertake in performing their duties as Non-Executive Directors.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Directors are entitled to take operation of the Boards Nominations, Principal Board Committees independent professional advice, at Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board is assisted by the Audit, the Companys expense, if required.
The results were considered satisfactory Remuneration and Nomination Directors have access to the advice and by the Board.
A summary of the activities services of the Secretary to the Board, of each committee is set out below.
The who is responsible for ensuring that the The performance evaluation of the Board, Committees are constituted with Board procedures and applicable rules its members and its Committees will appropriate written terms of reference, and regulations are observed, and for continue on an annual basis.
which are reviewed annually and are advising the Board, through the available on the Companys website.
The Retirement and re-election Except for the Terms of Reference of the agenda for each Board and Committee In accordance with the Companys Remuneration Committee which was meeting is considered by the relevant Articles of Association, all Directors are amended to clarify the role of the Chairman and papers for each scheduled subject to election at the first AGM after Committee and to address requirements formal Board and Committee meeting are their appointment and one third, or the arising from changes to the management provided beforehand.
In addition, the number nearest to one third of the Board, structure, the other Committee terms of Chairman maintains regular contact with shall retire from office at every AGM.
Any references did not require any changes the Executive Directors to discuss Director in office for more than three further to the annual review.
years at the start of an AGM shall also of meetings and or reports from the retire.
Accordingly, Peter Whitbread and Chairmen of the Committees are made Directors are free to meet individual Richard Raynaut being the longest available to the Board for its next members of the senior management serving Directors, and making up the scheduled meeting following the team and have done so during the year number nearest to one third of the Board, Committee meeting in question, or as under review.
The Board and its will retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Peter soon as practicable thereafter.
Committees receive briefings on Whitbread has decided to retire from the legislative and regulatory developments Company at that time and not offer Audit Committee and new accounting requirements as himself for reappointment.
Richard The members of the Audit Committee appropriate and believe that, given the Raynaut, being eligible, offers himself for are Richard Raynaut, who acts as experience and skills of its Directors, the reappointment.
The biographical details Chairman, Colin Goodall and Brian identification of general training needs is of Richard Raynaut, the Director Fredrick.
Others may be co-opted onto best left to individual discretion.
proposed for re-election, can be found on the Committee by the Committee page 33.
The Chairman confirms that members.
The Board considers all the No Director took independent following formal performance evaluation, members of the Audit Committee who professional advice during the year.
the performance of Richard Raynaut are Non-Executive Directors to be continues to be effective and that he independent in character and judgement Performance evaluation demonstrates commitment to his role.
and free from any relationship or A performance evaluation of the Chairman, The Board supports the re-election of the circumstance which may, or could or the Board, its members and the retiring Director, Richard Raynaut.
would be likely to, or which appears to, Committees was conducted through a affect their judgement.
Richard Raynaut, questionnaire led interview with other Directors remuneration the Chairman of the Audit Committee, members of the Board.
The questionnaires The principles and details of Directors has relevant and recent financial included a review of the Directors remuneration are contained in the experience having retired from his attendance at Board meetings, the Board Directors Remuneration Report on pages position as Chief Financial Officer in 2004. agenda, those areas on which the Board 46 to 55.
The composition and working of Other members of the Audit Committee should focus during its meetings, the the Remuneration Committee are also have relevant financial experience.
effectiveness of the roles of the Chairman explained under Principal Board and Non-Executive Directors, Board Committees on page 43.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are held procedures and administration, and the not less than three times a year.
The Chief Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 41 Corporate Governance Report continued Financial Officer is invited to attend of conduct includes amongst others, the meetings, where appropriate, and the prohibition of bribery and political Companys auditors are regularly invited donations.
to attend meetings, including once at the planning stage before the audit and once The Audit Committee met including after the audit at the reporting stage.
meetings by conference call four times Other Board members may also be during the year and the attendance at its invited to attend, although at least once a meetings is reported on page 39. year the Audit Committee meets the Companys external auditors without Nomination Committee management being present.
The terms of The current members of the Nomination reference of the Audit Committee include Committee are Colin Goodall, who acts consideration of matters relating to the as Chairman, Richard Raynaut and Brian appointment of the Companys auditors Fredrick.
The Nomination Committees and the independence of the Companys terms of reference are to periodically auditors, reviewing the integrity of the review the structure, size and Companys annual and interim reports, composition, including the skills, preliminary results announcements and knowledge and experience required of any other formal announcement relating the Board compared to its current to its financial performance.
The Audit position and make its recommendations Committee also reviews the effectiveness to the Board with regard to any changes.
of the Groups system of internal audit, The Nomination Committee also internal control and compliance considers the future composition of the procedures.
Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, The Audit Committee has established and skills and expertise needed on the and monitors the Groups policy in Board.
The Nomination Committee also relation to non-audit services provided by makes recommendations to the Board the external auditor, with a view to about the membership of the Audit and ensuring objectivity, independence and Remuneration Committees.
On 14 September 2008 Brian Fredrick was The Audit Committee also monitors the appointed as a Non-Executive Director procedure to ensure that employees may with a start date of 1 January 2009, based raise ethical concerns in confidence.
The on the recommendation of the Nomination Audit Committee has designated the Committee.
The selection process Chief Financial Officer as the Compliance involved interviews with a number of Officer: employees also have access to candidates that were shortlisted from a list the Audit Committee if the Compliance of candidates who had been considered at Officer has not dealt with their concerns the time of the Companys IPO and from a satisfactorily.
list of candidates referred by the Directors and Companys advisers.
The Nomination The Company has adopted a code of Committee considered the candidates conduct covering all employees including relevance to the Companys business, senior executives: the compliance with experience and the candidates time this code of conduct is monitored by the commitment, as well as the skills required Human Resource department.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 While recommending the nomination for The Remuneration Committee met Internal control the position of the Chairman, the including meetings by conference call The control environment, risk management Nomination Committee reviewed and five times during the year.
The attendance system and assurance processes being accepted the job specification for the at its meetings is reported on page 39. the three key elements leading to a robust Chairman adopted by the Board in system of internal control in the Group, are January 2009, assessed the time Accountability and Audit described below.
commitment expected for the position The Board plays a direct role in the and the availability of the Chairman in the development of the Groups internal There exists a clear organisational event of crisis.
controls and risk management systems in structure for the control and monitoring of addition to overseeing controls and risk the Groups businesses, including defined An external search for the Board management procedures via the Audit lines of responsibility and delegation of appointments was not undertaken as the Committee.
The business follows policies referrals and the information held by the responsibility for developing and and procedures which amongst other Company for the positions of the Nonimplementing internal control and risk matters, include policies for the Company Executive Director and internal management procedures covering and its employees on health and safety, candidature for the position of the strategic, commercial, operational and security, the environment, corporate Chairman satisfied the requirement.
financial aspects of the business, lies with social responsibility and areas of the management.
The Nomination Committee met including meetings by conference calls Financial reporting The Group has an ongoing process for four times during the year and the The statement on the responsibilities of identifying, evaluating and managing the attendance at its meetings is reported on the Directors in relation to the preparation significant risks faced by the Group.
This page 39. of the accounts and the Directors has been in place for the year under evaluation of the business as a going review and up to the date of this annual Remuneration Committee concern is contained in the Directors report and is in accordance with the The members of the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 37.
The Directors Committee are Brian Fredrick, who acts are aware that the Groups risk as Chairman, Colin Goodall and Richard Internal audit management systems cannot completely Raynaut.
Brian Fredrick took over the The Audit Committee evaluated the eliminate risks and thus there can never Chairmanship of the Committee from performance of the internal audit function be an absolute assurance against the Richard Raynaut in June 2009.
The terms from the quality of reports received from Group failing to achieve its objectives or a of reference of the Remuneration Ernst & Young, the Groups internal material loss arising.
In the Boards Committee provide for it to determine and auditors: feedback from management: regular review of the Groups strategic agree with the Board the framework or and, an assessment of work planned and plans, consideration is given to those broad policy for the remuneration of the undertaken.
During the year the Company risks which have been identified as Companys Chief Executive Officer, the has undertaken Internal Control Self potential impediments to achieving the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Assessment in the absence of internal Groups strategic objectives.
The Board Financial Officer, other Executive audit.
In March 2010, as per the receives regular formal updates from Directors, the Company Secretary and Companys long-term plan, an management on the key risks and the other such members of the executive independent internal audit function has related controls in relation to the Groups management as it is designated to been set up within the organisation.
existing business and, if appropriate, on consider.
The remuneration of the Ravindra Dabir, the Company Secretary, potential new business.
Management Non-Executive Directors is a matter for has been appointed as the Vice thoroughly considers risks associated the Executive Directors.
No Director or President-Internal Audit and tasked with with undertaking new business.
manager may be involved in any the objective of setting up and managing decisions as to his own remuneration.
a fully fledged internal audit department.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors receive assurances a licence application in Thailand.
The from the following internal and Audit Committee, in accordance with the external controls: Policy on Auditor Independence and Annual self assessment of agreed adopted by the Group, and having internal controls by process owners considered the nature of work to be and review of such results by the carried out believes that, whilst being internal auditors.
cost effective, the appointment of the Regular executive reports from external auditors to apply for the licence management in areas covering key did not affect the objectivity, or the issues, performance, business outlook, independence, of the external auditors.
human resources and health, safety and environment.
Dialogue with institutional Financial performance reports including shareholders analyses of significant variances The Chairman, the Senior Independent regularly reported by the management.
Non-Executive Director, the Chief External audit reports, presentations Executive Officer and the Chief Financial and management letters from the Officer have regular meetings with major Groups auditors.
The Reports from the internal audit function.
Board receives regular feedback from Reports from internal quality audits.
analysts and major shareholders, Reports from the Audit Committee.
compiled by the Companys brokers and financial public relations consultants, in The Board conducts an annual review of particular, following presentations and the effectiveness of the systems of meetings after the publication of financial internal control including financial, results.
The principal method of operational and compliance controls and communicating with the majority of risk management systems.
Where shareholders is via the annual report and material weaknesses have been accounts and the Companys website, identified, safeguards are implemented which contains details of financial and monitored.
presentations to analysts, press releases and other information about the Group.
Audit Committee and Auditors All shareholders have the opportunity to The composition and working of the Audit attend the AGM.
All Directors were Committee are explained under Principal present at the 2009 annual general Board committees on pages 41 to 42. meeting and all Directors intend to be present at the 2010 AGM to answer The Audit Committee has reviewed the shareholders questions.
performance of , the external auditors, who retire at the Constructive use of the AGM end of the AGM and recommends their The Board uses the AGM as an occasion reappointment.
The Board concurs to communicate with all shareholders, with the recommendation of the including private investors, who are Audit Committee.
provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
At the AGM the total During the year, the external auditors number of proxy votes lodged on each , were also resolution categorised as for, against, and engaged to provide services in relation to votes withheld will be made available both Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 at the meeting and subsequently on the Companys website.
Each separate issue is presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the AGM, and related papers containing the text of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, and explanatory notes, where necessary, will be posted to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
The interim and preliminary results of the Company, along with all other press releases, are posted on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as they are announced and are available for download.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 45
