Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Internal control key strategic and operational risks as part of the Executive Committees The Board has overall responsibility for the are considered as part of the annual review of the top 10 business risks, Groups system of internal control and for planning and budgeting process.
proposals to improve mitigations are reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board Throughout the year, the Chief Executive presented and discussed.
Matters delegates the responsibility for operating Officer and Chief Finance Officer of each considered during the year included and monitoring the systems of internal business unit produce written monthly refinements to the implementation of control to executive management in each reports for Group analysis and review.
the Groups risk appetite through new of the Groups business units.
These comprise detailed financial results, authority matrices and sign-off levels: These systems are designed to manage forecasts, cash flows and commentary the development of Bid Smart, the and not eliminate risk of failure to achieve on major contracts, covering opportunities Groups new governance process for business objectives and can only provide and threats within the business bids, including a new, refined project reasonable and not absolute assurance the Groups Chief Executive Officer and and service line risk management against material errors, losses, fraud or Chief Financial and Operations Officer methodology: and business continuity breaches of laws or regulations.
conduct monthly business reviews of the planning improvements, including the The Groups systems of internal control major business units within the Group development of pandemic risk mitigation cover all material controls including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief plans and in particular planning for the financial, operational and compliance as Financial and Operations Officer and possible impact of the H1N1 virus well as risk management systems and are the Board carry out formal reviews of a detailed assessment of the Companys in accordance with the Turnbull guidance major bids, where opportunities exceed fraud risk management framework was and the Combined Code.
specified monetary values or risk profiles completed during the year.
This resulted The key elements of the system of research and development and capital in a number of shortand medium-term internal control in operation are: investment programmes are subject to improvement actions being identified formal review and approval and a detailed discussion on fraud risk business units operate under mandatory, quality assurance teams are in place taking place at the Executive Committee written policies and procedures, as set in all business units, supporting local a redesigned controls self-assessment out in the Groups business management management in assuring and improving process was implemented in September system.
Policies and procedures are kept the quality of operational delivery.
This was designed to complement under review by experienced teams are key to the operation and Group Internal Audit work, with countries representatives from across the Group.
maintenance of the ISO and other and entities being required to complete Key Group policies are then reviewed industry standard quality accreditations assessments for areas where no Group and approved by the Board in place throughout the Group Internal Audit work had been performed the Groups mandatory policies include the Groups systems of internal control during the year.
As well as covering the a Group ethics policy and a confidential and its internal control procedures are overall control environment, it comprised disclosure policy, the latter of which reviewed and tested on a sample basis eight major business process areas from describes the whistleblowing by Group Internal Audit.
The results of project control and procurement, to HR arrangements in operation for the Group Group Internal Audit work are routinely and finance.
The results of these self the Groups mandatory policies include an reported to the Groups executive assessments have been sense-checked authority matrix, setting out the levels of management and the Audit Committee and will now be validated, on a sample authority delegated to individual Board basis, on subsequent Group Internal members and Group senior executives on Audit reviews.
a wide range of matters including those relating to capital expenditure, property leases and freeholds, bids and commercial contracts, publicity, treasury issues, employment matters and legal disputes 49 Governance Corporate governance report Risk management The conclusions arising out of the Groups The Board confirms that it has continued The Board recognises the need to understand risk management activities are closely to review the effectiveness of the Groups and control the variety of risks to which the interlinked with the evaluation and internal controls and risk management Group is exposed.
In order to address these management of the Companys Key processes during 2009 and up to the date challenges on behalf of the Board during the Performance Indicators KPIs, which are of this Report and that, during the period, year, the Audit Committee oversaw the set out on pages 136 to 137. these reviews have covered all material Executive Committees risk management controls, including financial, operational and activities.
The Executive Committee updated Financial reporting process compliance controls and risk management the framework for managing risk within the In addition to the general internal control systems.
Where weaknesses have been Group which saw the major risks taken back and risk management framework set out identified or reported through the various into its ownership.
The Executive Committee above, the following elements of the internal mechanisms outlined above, appropriate took responsibility for the regular evaluation of control system are specific to the financial corrective action is agreed and closely generic and specific risks within the business reporting process: monitored.
and the implementation of mitigation plans to the relevant Group mandatory policies address them.
Five practice panels responsible External auditors covering: a a reporting policy, that sets respectively for the areas of delivery, The external auditors provide a out what is to be reported monthly operations, finance, human resources, and supplementary, independent perspective to the Chief Executive Officer and b a sales and marketing, supported the Executive on the overall integrity of those areas of the revenue recognition policy Committee, particularly in updating policy internal control system which they assess the Groups financial reporting system and processes to improve the Groups risk in the course of their work.
Their findings has been designed and implemented management practices.
are reported regularly to the Audit to ensure consistency and visibility of The risk management process identifies, Committee.
The Audit Committee assesses management information, thereby evaluates and manages significant risks the evidence provided to them and seeks to providing a sound basis for Group and faced by the Group.
Risks are assessed with ensure that the risk management process cluster management review processes reference to the achievement of the Groups adequately addresses all of the major risks all countries are required to produce a business objectives and according to to the Group.
To ensure auditor objectivity monthly Chief Executive Officers report current market and economic issues.
The and independence, there is a stringent which includes high level financial continuous monitoring of strategic and process in place to approve non-audit work.
reporting of business performance and operational risks is the responsibility of the Proposed work must be approved by the major projects.
These reports are Board and line management respectively.
Chief Financial and Operations Officer before reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer, The risk process has been in place for the being passed to the Audit Committee for the Chief Financial and Operations year under review and up to the date of approval at specific financial levels.
Copies Officer and other senior members of the this Report.
of all internal audit reports are automatically Group finance and commercial functions As referred to in the internal control copied to the external auditors to ensure all countries are required to produce section above, clearly defined delegation communication is both comprehensive weekly cash flow and monthly foreign of responsibilities and authorisation levels and transparent.
These are contribute to a comprehensive system reviewed by the Group Treasurer and which exists for controlling these risks and Details regarding the remuneration utilised to ensure hedging control and ensuring they are adequately addressed.
of the external auditors for both audit cash management for the Group Core operating procedures, common and non-audit work can be found on the Group reporting team undergo to all areas of the Group, are clearly page 93 P93 quarterly technical training, provided documented in the business management by the external auditors, to ensure that system referred to in the internal control Going concern they are up to date on financial reporting section.
The Directors, having made enquiries, standards and good practice Regular internal control reviews are consider that the Company and the Group the financial reporting review process presented to the Audit Committee.
Audit have adequate resources to continue in performed by the Group finance function Committee papers, including internal control operational existence for the foreseeable includes benchmarking to compare reviews, are circulated to all Board members.
future, and therefore it is appropriate to country performance, identify risk areas maintain the going concern basis in and determine improvement actions for The key risks and measures to mitigate risks preparing the financial statements.
specific countries or for the Group as identified by the Board are listed on pages a whole.
70 to 71 P70 50 Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Audit Committee PwCs 2009 proposed fee and audit an extensive goodwill evaluation Composition strategy covering the Groups activities which The Audit Committee is comprised solely the review and approval of the supported the carrying value thereof of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Companys ongoing policy for using PwC with no impairment deemed necessary.
During 2009 the membership of the for non-audit work.
Logica has a clear In addition, at each Audit Committee Committee was as follows: policy on the use of auditors in a meeting, the Committee may review a non-audit capacity which is aimed at Roger Payne Chairman from variety of standing items including progress ensuring their continued independence.
10 September 2004 on actions taken in response to the The use of the auditors for book-keeping Wim Dik Member until Committees representations: relevant services or other services related to 30 April 2009 legal, reporting practice and compliance accounting records or financial Sergio Giacoletto Member from developments: major acquisitions statements is specifically disallowed.
24 February 2009 divestments: any reports filed under the The Audit Committee believes that Wolfhart Hauser Member from Companys confidential disclosure and there is non-audit work such as certain 1 January 2007 fraud policies: compliance with the assurance and advisory services that Companys code of ethical conduct, Jan Babiak was appointed as a member may be best performed by the auditors including whistleblowing, and any other of the Committee with effect from as a result of their unique position and special investigations falling under the 1 January 2010. knowledge of the Company.
Any terms of reference of the Committee.
The Board considers Roger Payne to have non-audit work of this nature with a value The Committee is authorised to recent and relevant financial experience greater than 20,000 that is tax related investigate any activity within its terms of following his previous role as the financial or is greater than 10,000 in any other reference and to seek any information that it director of a former FTSE 100 listed case requires formal approval by the requires from any employee of the Company company.
When Roger Payne retires from Audit Committee.
The policy and overall and its subsidiaries.
All employees are the Board at the Companys 2010 AGM it fees paid to our auditors are also directed to cooperate with the Committee.
is intended that Jan Babiak will replace him reviewed on an annual basis by the The Committee has the right to consult the as Chairman of the Committee.
The Board Audit Committee Companys professional advisers or, if it is considers that Jan Babiak will meet the the appropriateness and approval of not satisfied with the advice received, seek recent and relevant financial experience the Companys accounting policies further independent professional advice at requirement due to her previous role as a the review of the 2008 full year and the Companys expense.
The Committee managing partner at Ernst and Young.
2009 interim announcements believes that the skills, qualifications and The composition of the Audit Committee the review of the Companys 2008 commercial experience of its members are and its terms of reference reflect the annual report and accounts, in particular appropriate for them to perform their duties.
Combined Code and the Smith Guidance.
the financial overview, report of the Directors, financial statements including Meetings Activities notes to the accounts and relevant The Audit Committee meets with the The Committees activities include the sections of the Corporate Governance Companys external auditors in private at review and approval of presentations report, all of which were recommended least four times a year and during the year and reports from senior management, for approval by the Board the Committee had a satisfactory level of consulting as necessary with the external reports and updates from the Companys dialogue with the auditors.
In 2009, the Committee Internal Audit function.
The internal audit members constitute a quorum.
The specifically considered the following: plans for 2009 were reviewed and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief approved.
These reports and updates the performance of the Companys Financial and Operations Officer, Deputy additionally covered the Companys independent auditor, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal management of its internal controls  LLP PwC Audit and other appropriate specialist reports relating to the Companys risk including qualifications, expertise and functional managers attend meetings at the management process including any resource, effectiveness, objectivity and request of the Committee.
The Committee specific key risks identified.
In addition, independence, and recommended their also met with the Head of Internal Audit in the impact of changing legislation and re-election as the Companys auditors private on two occasions during the year.
regulation, were considered and where the reports and updates from PwC In addition, the Chairman had meetings necessary, appropriate action was taken which during the year summarised the with both external and internal auditors the review of the financial position of conclusions from the 2008 audit and on a regular basis.
the Companys defined benefit pension included regular feedback on the status schemes of the Companys control environment the review of the Companys tax and and managements responsiveness to treasury policies audit results 51 Governance Corporate governance report Nominations Committee Meetings non-Board member attend meetings Composition The Nominations Committee was convened at the invitation of the Committee.
The Nominations Committee is comprised on two scheduled occasions during 2009.
The Committee has the right to appoint of a majority of independent Non-Executive Two Committee members, both of whom independent advisers and, if it is not Directors.
During 2009 the membership of must be independent Non-Executive satisfied with the advice received, seek the Committee was as follows: Directors, constitute a quorum.
Other further independent professional advice at Directors are entitled to attend at the the Companys expense.
Kepler Associates David Tyler Chairman from invitation of the Committee and additional were the principal independent advisers to 17 November 2007 meetings may be convened if required.
the Committee until September 2009 when, Wim Dik Member until following a review by the Committee of its 30 April 2009 Remuneration Committee advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street were Sergio Giacoletto Member from Composition appointed to that role.
30 April 2009 The Remuneration Committee is comprised The Directors Remuneration Report, Andy Green Member from solely of independent Non-Executive which describes the Committees functions 17 January 2008 Directors.
During 2009 the membership and its remuneration policies for Directors Nol Harwerth Member from of the Committee was as follows: and senior management in more detail, 26 February 2008 is set out on pages 55 to 69.
Roger Payne Member from Nol Harwerth Chairman from The Committee believes that the skills, 4 June 2007 5 November 2007 qualifications and commercial experience Wolfhart Hauser Member until Following a recommendation from the of its members are appropriate for them to 30 April 2009 Committee, the Board appointed Sergio perform their duties in accordance with the Frdric Rose Member from Giacoletto as the Companys Senior terms of reference laid down by the Board.
30 April 2009 Independent Director on the retirement David Tyler Member from of Wim Dik.
Meetings 5 November 2007 The Committee meets at least four times Activities Although the composition of the Committee a year and any two Committee members The activities of the Committee include does not meet the strict recommendations constitute a quorum.
reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge of the Combined Code, due to the and experience represented on the membership of the Chairman of the Board and its Committees and making Company, the Board believes that the wide The full Terms of Reference of the recommendations to the Board concerning range of knowledge and experience brought Audit, Nominations and Remuneration any adjustments deemed to be appropriate.
to the Committee by a membership which Committees are available on the The Committee oversees the search and has executive and non-executive experience Companys website www.
com selection process for new Directors.
It can, in the IT industry and other sectors, both in or can be obtained from the Company and during the year did, engage external the UK and abroad, is particularly well suited Secretary.
independent professional advisers to assist to the current requirements of the Company.
it when seeking potential Board members.
A shortlist of candidates will normally be Activities established and selected candidates will The Remuneration Committees principal be interviewed and recommended for activities are to determine the Companys consideration by the Board.
senior executive remuneration policy and The Committee also regularly reviews levels of remuneration for the Companys the Groups succession planning process Chairman, Executive Directors, Executive which is designed to ensure leadership Committee, certain other members of continuity within the Groups most senior senior management, the Company executive positions over the mediumand Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit.
long-term and to identify and develop The Committee takes into consideration individuals with the potential to take on key the pay and conditions of employment for or critical management positions in future.
employees when considering executives In addition, the Committee is responsible remuneration.
The Chief Executive Officer for overseeing the Board appraisal process.
and the Groups Chief People Officer 52 Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 External appointments as appropriate and their comments are in accordance with applicable law and Executive Directors are normally permitted then communicated at the meeting.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards to accept and maintain one non-executive United Kingdom Generally Accepted appointment in a major company at any one Statement of Directors Responsibilities Accounting Practice.
Fees earned by Executive Directors in respect of the annual report, the In preparing the Group Financial are retained by the relevant Director, which Directors remuneration report and Statements, the Directors have also elected reflects the personal risk assumed in such the financial statements to comply with the IFRSs, issued by the appointments.
The Directors are responsible for International Accounting Standards Board preparing the annual report, the Directors IASB.
The Group and Parent Company Board attendance remuneration report and the Group and Financial Statements are required by law The table below shows the attendance the Parent Company Financial Statements to give a true and fair view of the state of Directors at scheduled meetings of the in accordance with applicable law and of affairs of the Company and the Group Board as well as the Audit, Remuneration regulations.
and of the profit or loss of the Group for and Nominations Committees during 2009.
Company law requires the Directors that period.
Directors are normally provided with to prepare financial statements for each the agenda and papers for Board and financial year.
Under that law the Directors Committee meetings one week prior to have prepared the Group Financial the meetings.
Directors who are unable Statements in accordance with International to attend a meeting provide feedback Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as to the Chairman, Chairman of the adopted by the European Union, and the Committee or the Company Secretary Parent Company Financial Statements Board attendance at scheduled meetings during 2009 Member Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible David Tyler 6 C 6 4 4 2 C 2 Andy Green 6 6 2 2 Seamus Keating 6 6 Crister Stjernfelt 5 6 Sergio Giacoletto 6 6 3 3 1 1 Nol Harwerth 6 6 4 C 4 2 2 Wolfhart Hauser 6 6 4 4 1 1 Roger Payne 6 6 4 C 4 2 2 Frdric Rose 5 5 3 3 Wim Dik 2 2 1 1 1 1 Grard Philippot 1 2 C Denotes Chairman of the Board or Committee.
Board Changes Sergio Giacoletto was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2009 and became a member of the Audit Committee from that date.
He was appointed as a member of the Nominations Committee on 30 April 2009 following the Committee meeting held on that date.
Wolfhart Hauser stood down from the Remuneration Committee on 30 April 2009.
Roger Payne will resign from the Board following the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM on 5 May 2010 when his appointment as Chairman of the Audit Committee will also end.
Frdric Rose was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2009 and became a member of the Remuneration Committee on that date.
Wim Dik and Grard Philippot resigned from the Board at the AGM held on 30 April 2009.
Wim Diks membership of both the Audit and Nominations Committees ended on his resignation as a Director.
Jan Babiak was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 1 January 2010.
It is intended that she will become the Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 5 May 2010.
53 Governance Corporate governance report In preparing those financial statements, The Directors are responsible for the Annual General Meeting the Directors are required to: maintenance and integrity of the corporate All Directors are expected to attend the AGM and financial information included on the to answer shareholders questions, with the select suitable accounting policies Companys website www.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and and then apply them consistently Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Nominations Committees present to answer make judgements and estimates the preparation and dissemination of any questions on the responsibilities and that are reasonable and prudent financial statements may differ from activities of their Committees.
All Directors state that the Group Financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
To ensure that the Statements comply with IFRSs as Each of the Executive and Non-Executive views of all shareholders are reflected adopted by the European Union EU Directors, whose names and functions are proportionately, it is the Companys policy and IFRSs issued by the IASB and, referred to on pages 37 to 41, confirm that, for all resolutions to be voted on a poll.
with regard to the Parent Companys to the best of their knowledge: Financial Statements, that applicable By order of the Board UK Accounting Standards have been the Group financial statements, which followed, subject to any material have been prepared in accordance with departures disclosed and explained IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true in the financial statements.
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the The Directors confirm that they have Alice Rivers Group: and complied with the above requirements Company Secretary the business review and risk factors in preparing the financial statements.
5 March 2010 include a fair review of the development The Directors are responsible for keeping and performance of the business and proper accounting records that disclose the position of the Group, together with with reasonable accuracy at any time the a description of the principal risks and financial position of the Company and the uncertainties that it faces.
Group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and with respect to the Group Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
54 Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders.
The Committee believes the report complies with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Report comprises the following approving the annual bonus targets During the year the Committee took advice, three sections: for the senior executives as appropriate, from: overseeing the policy and management Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS of the Companys employee share plans the Committees independent executive Remuneration Committee ensuring due consideration of remuneration advisers from October overview environmental, social and corporate 2009 to date.
HNBS also provided responsibilities governance issues when setting the general compensation benchmark data key issues considered in remuneration of Executive Directors to a number of countries within the 2009 and 2010 P56 ensuring that the Company pays Group and advised on the operation and appropriately for the performance implementation of the Companys share Remuneration policy and achieved plans.
HNBS provided no other services key programmes overseeing all associated risks arising to the Group.
The terms of engagement key elements of remuneration throughout the Company when setting between the Company and HNBS are 2010 P57 remuneration.
available on request from the Company summary description of key The Committee is guided by the strategic Secretary P58 programmes and financial priorities of the Group as Kepler Associates were the Committees remuneration policy for Nonoutlined in other sections of the annual independent executive remuneration Executive Directors P61 report.
The Committee also takes account advisers until September 2009 and did of the changing nature of the business: the not provide any other advice or services 2009 remuneration review markets in which it operates: and reward to the Group summary of executive practices and employment conditions of both advisers are founder signatories P62 arrangements for 2009 employees throughout the Group.
to the Code of Conduct for executive remuneration consulting.
Committee composition, meetings Remuneration In addition, advice was sought where and terms of reference Committee overview appropriate from other sources, namely The Committee is composed entirely of Responsibilities the Chief Financial and Operations Officer independent Non-Executive Directors: The Remuneration Committee is and the Chief People Officer.
responsible to both the Board and the The Committee may invite any of the Member From To shareholders.
The Committees principal Executive Directors to attend all or part Nol Harwerth 1 Jan 2007 To date responsibilities are summarised below: of its meetings.
Individuals are not present Wolfhart Hauser 1 Jan 2007 30 Apr 2009 when their own remuneration is being determining the overall policy for Frdric Rose 30 Apr 2009 To date discussed.
executive remuneration David Tyler 5 Nov 2007 To date The Committees terms of reference approving the remuneration packages Chairman from 5 Nov 2007. are available on the Companys website and conditions of employment of the at www.
com governance or from Chairman, the Executive Directors, the The Committee held four scheduled and the Company Secretary.
Executive Committee members, the four additional meetings during 2009.
The size and experience of the Company Secretary, the Head of Internal See page 53 of the Corporate Governance Committee is appropriate for the size of the Audit and other senior management report for details of attendance by Board and the experience of the individual individual members.
members is appropriate to ensure that the 55 Governance Directors remuneration report Committee maintains its independence Remuneration policy i the total remuneration for Executive to oversee the remuneration policies of and key programmes Directors is weighted most heavily towards the Company.
The Committees remuneration policy for the performance-related elements: and ii In line with the requirements of the the following year is based on the principles a significant proportion of pay is delivered Combined Code, the Board undertook outlined below to ensure that it remains in shares.
The variable elements of pay a review of the effectiveness of the relevant to the business: comprise the annual bonus, the Partners Committee during the year.
Overall the Incentive Plan PIP, the Performance Multiplier to provide remuneration that is Committee performed well: was sufficiently Plan PMP and the Executive Equity competitive, attracts the right calibre of briefed on changing market practice and Participation Plan ExEPP and the fixed executive to the Group and is effectively governance requirements.
Based on the elements of remuneration charted are base aligned with the interests of shareholders evaluation the Committee reviewed and salary and pension.
and other stakeholders, including clients restructured its meeting schedule in order Our reward policies are designed to and employees to perform its duties most effectively.
motivate management to achieve the the remuneration for senior executives is shortand long-term goals of Logica, without set with reference to total compensation Key issues considered in 2009 and 2010 taking undue risk, by directly linking reward the policy supports and drives a In the difficult economic environment of 2009 to key measures of the business performance-oriented culture that links Logica faced some real challenges during the performance particularly by: rewards to the performance of the year.
The Committees focus has been to individual, the business they are rewarding key financial, strategic and ensure that the Companys reward policy responsible for and the Group as a whole personal performance through the and programmes continued to motivate by providing a remuneration package annual bonus plan management to work together, to respond to that contains appropriately motivating encouraging share ownership and the economic situation and to deliver results targets alignment with shareholder interest with a real focus on long-term sustainability the competitive remuneration provided to through our co-investment share plan and value to shareholders.
Executive the senior executive team is commensurate the Executive Equity Participation Plan remuneration arrangements were reviewed in with the global nature of the Group and the introduction in 2009 of i a profit 2009 and adapted in the light of the changed the executive team.
Target levels of share plan the Partners Incentive Plan business circumstances as explained below.
remuneration are benchmarked against which delivers reward in shares and Key issues considered included: similarly-sized suitable UK-listed ii the Performance Multiplier Plan which review of executive remuneration companies and selected international is directly linked to the PIP and fosters arrangements sector competitors.
These comparator the creation of shareholder value in the executive performance and bonus companies are selected on the basis of longer term.
payments in respect of 2008 size in both financial terms and with executive bonus arrangements and regard to number and type of employees, targets for 2009 complexity and international scope Remuneration mix executive and employee share plans of operations including performance conditions Directors contractual arrangements 100% modifications to the Partners Incentive are in line with UK governance guidelines Plan and the Performance Multiplier and competitive market practice 80% Plan, to take account of the economic the Committee regularly reviews its situation remuneration policy in the light of 60% adoption of the Restricted Share Plan significant regulatory developments, base pay increases for the Executive market practice and shareholder 40% Committee 2009 and 2010 feedback contractual arrangements for new the Committee monitors the level of 20% Executive Committee members reward to ensure that it is fair and approval of Directors remuneration proportionate in light of performance 0% report.
shareholders will be consulted when Target Stretch material changes to the policy are During 2010 the Committee intends being considered.
to consider: Salary Cash bonus The Committee aims to strike an Pension Shares changes to remuneration policy appropriate balance between: i the fixed executive bonus arrangements Average per Executive Director and variable: and ii the cash and equity and targets components of the total remuneration executive and employee share plans package.
The adjacent chart shows that: including performance conditions.
56 Logica Annual report and accounts 2009 Key elements of remuneration in 2010 The table below summarises the key elements of the Executive Directors remuneration in 2010.
The mix includes fixed and variable elements which constitute the Directors total compensation.
The total compensation and each element in it are reviewed annually.
The mix may change year on year.
Element Objective Policy Award level Total To provide competitive total Compensation provided should be Total compensation is determined with compensation compensation to executives allowing commensurate with the executives reference to the remuneration policy the Company to attract and retain contribution to the Company.
for senior executives outlined on talented leaders The Committee intends to pay page 56 appropriately based on skill, experience and performance achieved by the executive Annual base Reflects an employees market Reviewed annually on 1 April.
MarketSalaries are reviewed against business salary value, responsibility, experience competitive base salaries against and personal performance, local and contribution to the Group suitable comparator companies based market conditions and take account and individual performance on size, sector and international scope of pay increases within the Group Annual bonus Incentivises executives to achieve Paid in cash.
Maximum reward only Incentive awards range from 0 to a Executive and exceed specific short-term for overachieving targets.
maximum of 125% of annual salary Bonus Plan financial, strategic and personal Requirement to invest 20% of net and reflect performance against objectives: deferred element annual bonus in shares for three stretching, key financial and strategic contributes to retention years with an option to invest up targets and the individuals personal to a further 30% contribution to the performance of the Group Executive Equity A deferred bonus plan which aligns Certain senior executives are required Senior executives and certain other Participation interests of shareholders and to invest part of their annual bonus in senior managers are eligible.
The Plan ExEPP executives through investing in shares.
Executives may also voluntarily requirement is to invest 20% and Company shares and encourages invest some of their bonus in shares executives may invest up to a further executives to build a significant if invited to do so.
In return, matching 30% of net annual bonus in this plan.
shareholding in the Group shares are released conditional on Matching awards are on a one-to-one Group performance over a threegross-of-tax basis subject to year period.
performance conditions Partners A long-term incentive that is designed Awarded in shares, it comprises an The value of the Annual Pool is divided Incentive Plan to reward Logica Partners for Annual Pool, the size of which is up to into points.
These points are distributed PIP sustained Group performance 5% of the previous years adjusted at a pre-determined flat rate to Logica measured by adjusted profit before pre-tax profit provided a profit target, Partners with a proportion typically tax to ensure management and set by the Committee, is reached being set aside to provide additional shareholder interests are aligned reward to top performers below Managing Partner level Performance Directly linked to the PIP and designed Shares awarded under the PMP are Linked to the PIP annual grant, the Multiplier Plan to reward Logicas Executive and only released for achieving stretching number of shares awarded is twice PMP Managing Partners for exceptional Group targets over a forward looking that of the Partners Incentive Plan growth over a rolling three-year basis three-year period.
The performance share award target is set at grant Pension Provides competitive retirement UK-based executives may participate Employer contributions for UK-based benefits in the defined contribution plan or Directors: receive a cash allowance.
Pension for CEO: 30% of annual base salary the Sweden-based Executive Director UK Executive Director: 20% reflects local market practice Share retention Requires executives to build and The shareholding requirement Shareholding requirements policy maintain a significant shareholding in for executives is expressed as a as a percentage of salary are: the Group and supports alignment percentage of annual salary and CEO 200% with shareholder interests was reviewed during the year Executive Directors 100% Executive Committee 50% 57
