qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:51 Page 50 50 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance Overview What is our approach to governance?
Leadership and governance go hand in hand in a successful company.
We recognise that our current Board structure is out of line with the For both to work well you need a clear plan of what you want to Combined Code in that Sir Stuart Rose combines the roles of achieve.
There are different ways to secure good governance: Chairman and Chief Executive.
We understand the concerns of our what you achieve in practice is as important as the formal structures: shareholders but believe that we still can and do maintain robust a strong relationship between management and the Board is governance while at the same time benefiting from having Stuart important, with trust, challenge, a common goal and good at the helm.
information flows between them: and As Deputy Chairman I lead on governance: together its not just about the Board its about how governance is with Stuart and our Board colleagues, we are guardians understood and acted on throughout the business from the of the M&S brand.
Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman boardroom to the shop floor.
As long as we have robust governance and make sure that We have one of the most trusted brands on the high street.
appropriate challenge to the executive is in place, we believe We need a clear plan, inspired leaders and motivated the right balance can be maintained.
employees, all focused on giving customers what they This report sets out how we achieve this and how M&S want at M&S.
Sir Stuart Rose, Chairman governance adds value to the business.
Board effectiveness How does the Board demonstrate independence?
I am constantly aware of the need to be independent and to ask the challenging question its in the best interests We are putting particular emphasis on making sure that our of M&S.
Steven Holliday, Non-Executive Director independent review of the executive is effective.
We have strengthened the role of the Deputy Chairman to address I have direct access to the Audit Committee Chairman.
concerns over the combined role.
He leads on all governance matters, The Committee supports me in making sure that which includes engaging shareholders on their views, chairing the management responds to our findings and that internal Nomination and Governance Committee and conducting the review audit is effective.
Mark Fensome, Head of Internal Audit of Board performance.
I am pleased that my colleagues and I can be forthright The Board has a clear majority of independent directors with six in the boardroom.
Our Board culture supports this.
out of 10 being fully independent.
All our non-executives have been Jan du Plessis, Non-Executive Director appointed since 2004 and have an average tenure of less than three years each.
How does the Board keep fully informed?
Its also a question of mindset our Board combines a broad range of skills, experience and personalities which secures the We have a comprehensive but efficient committee structure to help necessary level of challenge and insight to enhance executive keep the Board fully informed.
Activity reports from the Nomination and Governance, We are conscious of the need to give sufficient time for questions Remuneration and Audit Committees are given on pages 58 to 60. and debate in the boardroom so discussion does not get curtailed.
The committee chairmen report to the full Board on the outcomes The non-executives have the opportunity to influence the agenda.
With so much detailed work being delegated to the An ongoing timetable of executive updates is kept under review and committees, it is essential that time is given to keeping all directors strategic discussions were brought forward to respond to the current up to date and to give them opportunities to ask questions.
economic climate and changing needs of our customers.
The following committees also support the Board in fulfilling its The governance committees carry out detailed independent governance accountabilities: oversight on behalf of the Board to ensure we have the appropriate Executive Committee to develop and implement Board strategy processes in place for succession, remuneration and audit.
and react to operating and financial performance The non-executives get good, direct access to the management team through presentations at Board and committee meetings, Customer Insight Unit to analyse marketplace trends and the Boards strategic session in February and ad hoc meetings customer views to influence business decisions at their request.
How We Do Business Committee to implement Plan A, Our Group Secretary supports both the Chairman and the our 100 social, environmental and ethical commitments Deputy Chairman in carrying out their governance accountabilities.
He also makes sure the non-executives get the information and Business Involvement Groups to represent employee views access to people they need.
He is supported by the corporate to management to influence business decisions governance group which makes sure that the role of governance is Capital Approval Committee to approve capital expenditure understood throughout M&S.
On 8 July 2009 the Group Secretary, within Board limits and optimise investment Graham Oakley, will retire and will be succeeded by Amanda Mellor, current Head of Investor Relations.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:51 Page 51 51 What does governance mean to us?
We believe that good governance has four fundamental components: For M&S, governance is about making sure that: leadership clear and well-communicated: we are taking the business in the right strategic direction: challenge focused and effective: the executives are leading and managing effectively and are oversight active and comprehensive: and accountable: questioning rigorous and sustained.
the Group has appropriate controls in place and our risks are managed: and To achieve this the Board needs to: we are doing the right thing for our shareholders and our demonstrate independence to bring fresh perspectives and wider stakeholders.
hold management to account: seek full information to form views, question management How do we make this happen?
and take strategic decisions: and act responsibly to make sure our governance is robust The independent non-executive directors, led by the Deputy and we protect the reputation of M&S in everything we do.
Chairman, keep M&S governance under review to ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place to protect shareholder interests.
Fire, Health & Safety Committee to ensure the safety and The Boards challenge is to make sure this is put into practice and wellbeing of our employees, customers and visitors embedded in the M&S culture so that our employees understand their responsibilities.
Information Security Committee to ensure adherence to a Our history provides strong foundations that underpin our brand business wide information security policy values.
We must preserve these and build on them to continue to Business Continuity Committee to improve our response to any keep them relevant to doing business today.
major incident affecting premises or systems During the year the Board has: reinvigorated our brand values and the business initiatives that On the M&S Board we encourage innovative thinking and underpin them to make sure they meet customer expectations: continual questioning to make sure we meet customer reaffirmed our 100 Plan A commitments on the most important expectations for the next 125 years.
Martha Lane Fox, social, environmental and ethical challenges facing our business: Non-Executive Director launched our Lead to Succeed programme to help our senior The Board is keen to hear direct from us on the major people understand the unique nature of M&S leadership: initiatives in our areas.
This reinforces the relationship conducted a root and branch review of our Code of Ethics, which between management and the Board.
Darrell Stein, sets out how we behave with our stakeholders and outlines our Director of IT and Logistics principal policies.
Our senior people are accountable for ensuring this is understood and followed in their areas: and We have more than 3,500 employees elected by colleagues initiated a number of projects to celebrate our 125th Anniversary to represent their interests.
The Board wants to keep in with our customers, employees, suppliers, communities and touch with employees, especially during the current shareholders.
We are taking this opportunity to reflect on our past, economic slowdown.
Malcolm Heaven, National Chair of BIG look forward to our future and be proud to be part of M&S.
How does the Board act responsibly?
We have strengthened our governance of Plan A during the year.
Controls have been improved, clear KPIs defined Responsibility is a core part of governance for us in two respects.
and support has been established throughout the business.
The Board must meet its accountabilities to wider stakeholders.
And The Board and Audit Committee are in regular touch with our employees must play their part by acting responsibly at all times.
Richard Gillies, Director of Plan A The Board has a clear view of its accountabilities.
As part of our active debates around succession and leadership development, we Plan A has attracted significant interest from a wide range have established that our primary role as directors is to make sure that: of stakeholders.
It has got serious traction throughout our investors are rewarded with profitable returns: the Company.
Despite a tough year, leadership is sticking our customers experience Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and to its guns.
Jonathon Porritt Trust every time they visit M&S: our employees are proud to work at M&S: our suppliers are engaged in profitable partnerships: and our communities and the environment benefit from our sustainable business.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:51 Page 52 52 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance continued Board effectiveness continued Of course good governance is also a matter of the Board working How did the Board review its performance?
effectively as it goes about meeting its accountabilities.
To this end In June 2008 we published our Governance Framework containing we have undertaken a thorough review of both the Board and its individual profiles for Board members and terms of reference for the governance committees and given particular weight to induction Board and its Committees, against which performance could be and succession planning.
This matters to us a strong Board measured.
In November 2008 the Board agreed that external review makes a significant difference to a companys ability to create value.
of its performance would not be good use of funds at this time, given The annual performance review is an important element of the our own internal resource, but that an external review of our internal Boards activities to review and improve its performance continually.
process would help us to make sure that our approach to the annual assessment is thorough.
What did the Board do during 2008 09?
Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman, led the 2008 09 Board During 2008 09 we acted decisively to meet the challenge of the review, assisted by Alison Houston, our Head of Board Performance.
global economic downturn, taking steps to manage costs tightly In December 2008 each director had a one to one discussion with and respond quickly to the changing needs of our customers.
the Deputy Chairman, enabling him to highlight particular issues or Our current priorities place a greater emphasis on managing our themes to be reviewed.
business through the current downturn, underpinning our strong In February 2009 each director completed a questionnaire financial position and continuing to invest for the long term, to be electronically to rate performance across the highlighted areas.
well placed when the market improves.
In November 2008 we An unattributed executive summary was then distributed to all announced six priorities: directors and discussed at the Board meeting in March 2009.
Our priorities The 2008 09 review has confirmed that: retain our market leading position in general merchandise: whilst the Board had committed additional time to strategic improve our performance in food: development and brought forward its deliberations to respond drive our international business: to the changing economic climate, the balance of time spent on optimise margins and tightly control costs: strategic and operational issues still needed to be monitored: maintain a strong balance sheet: and succession planning and leadership development required uphold high ethical standards.
sustained focus to identify and develop leaders of tomorrow.
The appointment of Jan du Plessis as a non-executive director In May 2009 we announced that we have completed a major review had enhanced the independence, skills and experience on the to drive M&S through its next phase of development and launched a Board: and change programme under the banner 2020 Doing the Right Thing.
information presented to the Board on wider stakeholders was The Board met 10 times during the year see attendance table helpful.
This included regular presentations on customer sentiment on page 60 and at every meeting received an update on current and the competition which gave a valuable insight into the market trading, operational and financial performance from the Chairman and behaviours using independent analysis.
and the Finance and Operations Director.
Directors received a monthly Group Results booklet summarising financial results for the External review During 2008 09 we worked with external Group against the current operating plan.
It also contained consultants who advise companies on how to get the best value information on interest expense, cash flow and net debt, balance out of governance.
We used their online tool with electronic sheet, inventories, capital expenditure, investor relations and questionnaires for the Board and committee reviews and to produce competitor news.
the executive summary of the results.
The Board received regular updates from the Chairmen of the In April 2009 they analysed with us the results of our Board Audit: Remuneration: Nomination and Governance: and Capital assessment, gave us feedback on our process and reviewed the Approval Committees on activities during the year and an annual action plans we have set ourselves as a result.
We are also update from the Chairmen of the How We Do Business Committee discussing with them ways of benchmarking the progress we make and the Fire, Health & Safety Committee.
At each Board meeting on those actions during 2009 10. the Group Secretary reported on governance.
Board committee performance The Nomination and Governance, Executive Committee members attended Board meetings to Remuneration and Audit Committees have each conducted reviews give updates on progress in their respective areas during the year.
of their own performance as described for the Board.
More The Head of our Customer Insight Unit gave regular updates to the information is given in their respective reports on pages 58 to 60.
Board on latest market share data and customer feedback on M&S products and the service they received in stores.
The Board held an offsite meeting in February 2009 to consider the mid to long-term retail landscape, presented by independent advisers, and strategic opportunities presented by the Executive Committee.
During the year separate meetings were held by the nonexecutive directors to consider the process and timetable for succession to Chief Executive.
This would allow for the first assessment of internal candidates after they had had experience in their new roles for a reasonable period.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:51 Page 53 53 CELEBRATING 125 YEARS 18842009 The Company has come a long way since 1884, but the values Our corporate archive at the University of Leeds will: on which Michael Marks built his Penny Bazaar are just as true: provide business information internally for commercial gain: Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
promote our reputation externally via our heritage: We are recognising the importance of our corporate archive provide access for our customers, employees and and relocating it to Leeds, the Companys original home.
We are academia: and working with the University of Leeds to open an exhibition to the preserve our past for future generations and enable us to public on their campus in June 2009 and preserve and relocate learn lessons for the future.
We have created ranges of products for our customers to buy during 2009, inspired by archive products and designs.
We have also set ourselves the challenge to raise 1.25m over 125 days for local charities by September 2009.
Individual performance The Chairman has reviewed the What is the Boards focus for 2009 10?
performance of the executive directors individually against set Good governance is a matter of continuous development.
Remuneration is directly linked to these reviews and is We are not standing still.
determined by the Remuneration Committee.
We are putting in place our Board Action Plan for 2009 10.
Our Governance Framework gives particular emphasis on In May 2009 the Board discussed the findings from its Board review governance accountabilities for the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and agreed actions for 2009 10 within three key areas: and non-executive directors during the tenure of combined Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Deputy Chairman has reviewed 1.
An independent Board: harness the experience and talent of the performance of the Chairman against these accountabilities and the non-executive directors to invest in the business for the long business objectives and confirms that he continues to demonstrate term, to be well placed when the market improves: effective leadership.
An informed Board: improve the depth and breadth of The Board has determined that each non-executive is independent information given to the Board to facilitate robust decision-making in character and judgement: makes an effective and valuable during the economic downturn: contribution to the Board, and demonstrates commitment to the 3.
A responsible Board: reinforce our brand reputation and role, including giving sufficient time to M&S.
stakeholder relationships for the long term success of M&S through our brand values how we differentiate M&S, Plan A how we do Induction and ongoing development On appointment, the Head business and our Code of Ethics how we behave.
of Board Performance met with our new non-executive director, We are now developing an approach to monitoring the progress Jan du Plessis, to agree a customised induction programme which we make on these actions.
included individual meetings with business unit directors and store managers to gain an understanding of their respective operations.
How did we comply with the Combined Code?
He has also met with a representative body of shareholders to listen to their respective views on Marks & Spencer.
The governance rules which apply to UK companies listed on the The Group Secretary is an important resource to the nonLondon Stock Exchange are found in the Combined Code on executives to make sure that timely information is given to them to Corporate Governance the Code which was updated by the enable full and proper consideration of agenda items.
He also keeps Financial Reporting Council in June 2008. the directors informed on governance, regulation and legislative Throughout the year ended 28 March 2009 the Company change through his written report to each Board meeting.
complied with all Code provisions with the exception that from Our online Board portal provides easy access to information for 1 June 2008 the role of Chairman and Chief Executive has been directors to carry out their duties and for ongoing development.
exercised by the same individual, Sir Stuart Rose A.
We plan to revert to recommended best practice no later than July 2011.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:51 Page 54 54 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance continued From the boardroom to the shop floor Governance is not just about the Board its about how governance Leadership development and succession planning is understood and acted on throughout the business.
The Board During the year there was enhanced focus on succession within sets out the Companys values and standards to make sure our the Company through presentations at the Nomination and people understand and meet our obligations to shareholders and Governance Committee.
We are continuing to identify and develop internal talent, as well as bringing in new people, to make sure we have the right skills in Brand values key areas of business focus.
During the year we launched our Lead to Succeed development Our employees are focused on meeting our customers expectations programme built around our brand values.
This is designed to help every time they shop with us and we aim to live up to these values our senior leaders to develop themselves, lead their teams and our in everything we do.
organisation to drive business success.
It is a critical component of our future people strategy.
Quality Deliver high standards consistently Business Involvement Group Act with pace, be decisive and enthusiastic Take responsibility for your own performance and take action Our Business Involvement Groups BIG are the Companys to improve your development network of elected employee representatives who represent their colleagues in every store and every business area in the UK.
Value Through the BIG network the Company informs, involves and Strive to deliver value for money consults with employees who have the chance to voice their Look for opportunities to increase profit opinions and ideas, get answers and have their views represented Challenge yourself and others to be more efficient when the business considers changes that affect them.
Service Over 3,500 BIG members have continued to play a key role Deliver great service to customers and colleagues in a wide variety of business changes, in what has been a very Have a can-do attitude challenging year.
Do what you say youll do Code of Ethics Innovation Recognise trends and take action Doing the right thing helps us maintain trust in the M&S brand.
Look for ways to do things better We all have a responsibility to protect the Companys reputation in Be open to new ideas everything we do.
Be willing to step outside your comfort zone Our Code outlines the behaviours that M&S expects when we deal with our customers, colleagues, shareholders, suppliers, Trust communities and the environment.
Act with integrity It also provides a link to our key policies and sets out how Think and act as one team employees can raise their concerns.
Listen and consider the input of others The Top 100 Briefings and Director breakfasts introduced Challenge constructively and deal with conflict effectively this year have brought managers and employees together Celebrate achievement more regularly to make sure information flows both ways, from the boardroom to the shop floor.
Nayna McIntosh, Director of Store Marketing and Design Lead to Succeed is bringing to life our M&S brand, helping our senior people to understand the unique nature of leadership in M&S.
Tanith Dodge, Director of Human Resources The business has had to take some difficult decisions this year, including the restructuring of head office.
My role in the consultation process was to ensure the views of colleagues affected by the proposed changes were fairly represented.
Ann Govier, member of Corporate BIG M&S p50 61 CorpGov.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:51 Page 55 55 Accountability and audit The Boards objective is to achieve success for M&S by building a Risk assessment sustainable business for the long term, generating shareholder value Every six months the Board reviews the Group Risk Profile the tool through consistent profitable growth, whilst making sure that our that drives risk assessment and action planning.
This is supported customers can always trust us to do the right thing.
by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the In doing so, the directors recognise that creating value is the significant risks faced by the Group.
See the table of principal risks reward for taking acceptable risks.
and uncertainties on pages 56 and 57.
The Board has overall accountability for the Groups approach to As an integral part of planning and review, managers from each assessing systems of internal control and risk, and for monitoring business area and major projects: their effectiveness.
Independent assurance is provided by the identify the risks to their plans: external auditors and internal audit, who present their findings evaluate the risks using likelihood and impact: and regularly to the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
Internal control and risk assessment are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate This process has been in place for the year under review and up to objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable but not the date of approval of the Annual report and financial statements.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It has been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code Internal control produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board maintains control and direction over appropriate strategic, Assurance financial, operational and compliance issues.
It has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the and delegation of authority.
effectiveness of the Groups: There are also established procedures for financial planning, assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment capital expenditure, information and reporting systems, and for activity and a report from internal audit on the process undertaken: monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
systems of internal control, primarily through approving the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the annual and Plans and policies interim financial statements and a review of the nature, scope and communication of the Groups strategy, objectives and targets, reports of the external audit: values and standards: action plans taken, or to be taken, to remedy any failings or annual operating and capital plans and future projections: weaknesses identified: and operating policies and procedures: action plans in place to manage significant risks.
clearly defined capital investment control guidelines: review of treasury policies by the Board: and The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness review of social, environmental and ethical matters by the How of the Groups systems of internal control during the year, which are We Do Business Committee.
in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005.
It confirms the necessary action plans to remedy identified weaknesses in internal Competent people control are in place and have been throughout the year.
appointment and development of employees of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: and clear roles and accountabilities with regular performance reviews.
Monitor and control review by operating divisions of their plans with the relevant director prior to submission to the Board for approval, including identification and assessment of risks: monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial performance against budget: and regular consideration by the Board of year end forecasts.
Regulatory update reporting of accounting and legal developments: and regular briefings on latest best practice corporate governance to the Board.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:52 Page 56 56 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance continued Principal risks and uncertainties There are risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups long-term performance.
The risk assessment process is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
The table below gives examples of activities across Group functions to mitigate against risks and uncertainties identified.
The Board considers that these are the most significant risks to achieving business goals.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Risk Impact Examples of mitigating activities Economic downturn Our current priorities place a greater emphasis on managing our business through the downturn, underpinning our strong financial position and continuing to invest for the long term, to be well placed when the market improves.
Strategy We fail to set the strategic direction to Adverse effect on Short-term priorities announced in November 2008 balance short-term and long-term profitability financial results Significant cost saving initiatives announced in January 2009 Increased Board discussion concerning strategy with dedicated away-days in 2009 Finance We fail to protect brand and profitable Adverse effect on Regular monitoring of key brand profit indicators revenues whilst driving cost savings financial performance Regular monitoring of key service and compliance measures and brand reputation to ensure operating standards in our stores are maintained We fail to react to changes in foreign Adverse effect on Progressive hedging policy currency exchange or inflation rates operating costs or Close liaison with suppliers to mitigate adverse currency impact accounting impact Continued drive of economies of scale on operations We fail to maintain cost efficient funding Increased costs and Ongoing tight cash flow, working capital and cost management tighter conditions Tight stock management Quarterly cash forecasting and tight management of payment terms Adverse effect Tight control of capital expenditure on business and Proactive engagement with funding providers and credit agencies financial results Development of suite of future funding options if and when necessary We fail to respond to recover from key Disruption to supply Open and frequent dialogue with our key suppliers on their ability counterparty failure chain resulting in to continue to trade financial loss Adverse effect on financial performance and brand reputation We fail to react to changes in pension Adverse effect on Continuing dialogue with Trustee to identify appropriate long-term funding requirements financial condition funding solutions People As we continue to grow our business and invest for the future, its important we keep strengthening our team at every level from the shop floor to the boardroom.
We fail to attract, develop and retain talent Inability to develop Increased responsibilities for the executive team to support succession with the correct skills to succeed into senior and execute plans and appointment of separate Chairman and CEO by July 2011 positions business plans New Lead to Succeed leadership programme to develop and fast track current and potential leaders for tomorrow Competitive Bonus plans linked to individual performance being introduced disadvantage in 2009 10 We fail to retain the confidence and Poor employee Improved communication at all levels to keep employees engaged motivation of our employees morale and motivated Tracking of employee satisfaction surveys and resulting actions Tracking of customer perceptions of service and resulting actions M&S p50 61 CorpGov.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:52 Page 57 57 Risk Impact Examples of mitigating activities Product We are the UKs leading retailer of high quality, great value clothing, food and home products, which are all sourced and made responsibly.
Clothing Adverse effect on Better segmentation of our offer across Clothing We fail to maintain clothing market share financial results Improved cataloguing by demographic and customer profiling More excitement and newness We fail to maintain appropriate inventory levels Adverse effect on Tight management of terminal stocks and slower moving lines market share and Better management of ways and choice We fail to respond to market trends and customer loyalty consumer preferences Strong price architecture driving Good, Better and Best Increased efficiencies across our supply chain: better sourcing, faster to market, economies of scale on fabric Continual review of customer feedback via Customer Insight Unit Plan A initiatives, eg ethical sourcing Food Adverse effect on Continued investment to improve value perceptions with customers without compromising quality We fail to strike the right balance between financial results Improved promotional stance and execution delivering short-term profit and protecting Adverse effect on Good pipeline of innovation to maintain our market differentiaion longer term business growth market share and Focus on improved availability and waste We fail to halt the decline in market share customer loyalty Continual review of customer feedback via Customer Insight Unit Plan A initiatives, eg differentiated raw materials We fail to maintain product standards Adverse effect on brand reputation Selling channels We have ambitious plans for our M&S Direct and International businesses as part of our commitment to broadening our multi-channel offer.
M&S Direct Adverse effect on Clear multi-channel strategy including in-store collection We fail to meet customer expectations when financial results leveraging our online proposition with our well established retail they buy online footprint and marketing activities Adverse effect on Programme to refresh website look and feel and functionality market share and Focus on improved order fulfilment and customer service customer loyalty Extended product ranges and customer base International Adverse effect on Further business development with our partners in India and We fail to grow our international business financial results Central and Eastern Europe through franchise operations, partnerships Ongoing review of new markets Adverse effect on and wholly-owned businesses Continued growth of our franchise business brand reputation New systems processes to support international trade Reputation We are proud of our brand values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust which differentiate our products and services.
We all have a responsibility to protect the Companys reputation in everything we do.
Plan A Adverse effect on Governance in place to achieve our commitments, including We fail to maintain momentum for Plan A stakeholder trust Director of Plan A and clear accountabilities within executive team in the face of current trading priorities and and confidence Performance reporting developed and increased assurance delivered cost efficiencies Plan A integrated into day-to-day operation including Plan A Adverse effect on champions throughout head office and stores Our suppliers fail to meet our ethical brand reputation Open dialogue with stakeholders developing our mutual standards Adverse effect on understanding of the challenges we face Monitoring of our Global Sourcing Standards financial performance Business interruption Adverse effect Introduction of Business Continuity BC Committee, as recommended We fail to recover from a major incident on financial results by the Audit Committee, to give greater impetus to existing BC eg pandemic flu, terrorism, key system plans to improve our readiness to respond in each business area Adverse effect on failure which severely impacts our ability Regular reports to the Fire, Health and Safety FHS Committee stakeholder trust to trade and to the Board on our FHS performance and culture and and confidence increased focus on FHS risks and management KPIs M&S p50 61 CorpGov.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:52 Page 58 58 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance continued Committee effectiveness The Nomination and Governance Committee All directors seek shareholder election at their first Annual General Meeting following appointment and thereafter offer themselves for We need to maintain the right skills and experience on re-election at least every three years.
We announced last year that the Board and to develop tomorrows leaders, to ensure Sir Stuart Rose will seek re-election each year during his tenure as the continued success of M&S.
Sir David Michels, Committee Chairman At our 2009 AGM, in addition to Stuart and our new non-executive director, Jan du Plessis, the following directors will Committee membership On 28 March 2009 the Nomination seek re-election: Sir David Michels, Jeremy Darroch and Louise and Governance Committee comprised Sir David Michels Deputy Patten, who are the chairmen of our principal board committees.
Chairman and Committee Chairman, Sir Stuart Rose Executive Committee performance review In February 2009 Committee Chairman and all five independent non-executive directors: Jeremy members completed a questionnaire electronically to rate their Darroch, Martha Lane Fox, Steven Holliday, Louise Patten and Jan performance.
An unattributed executive summary was then du Plessis, who joined the Committee on 1 November 2008 when distributed to all members for discussion.
he was appointed to the Board.
Lord Burns chaired the Committee until 1 June 2008 when he retired from the Board.
The 2008 09 review has confirmed that: The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and there is a robust process in place to identify and develop leaders of ensures that it receives information and papers in a timely manner tomorrow: and to enable full and proper consideration of agenda items agreed we are on track to be able to separate the roles of Chairman and in advance.
Our activities during the year During 2008 09 the Committee The Committee has set itself some key actions for 2009 10 to: held two formal meetings see attendance table on page 60. keep under review the ongoing development of leadership to meet In September 2008 the Board extended its remit to the consideration the successional needs of the business: of wider governance issues and the new conflicts of interest continue to review internal and external candidates for the separate provisions of the Companies Act 2006. roles of Chairman and Chief Executive: and The Deputy Chairman has also held separate meetings on a keep the governance structure under review to make sure it adds regular basis with both the Chairman and the non-executives to value to the Companys performance.
consider the process and timetable for succession to Chief Executive and to make sure our governance is working.
The Remuneration Committee Leadership development and succession In September 2008 We pay for performance, to reward our leaders for the Committee received a presentation from the Director of Human delivering success for the business and our shareholders.
Resources on senior succession planning, focusing on the business Louise Patten, Committee Chairman unit directors below the Board.
This followed its meeting in June 2008 which reviewed roles below this level.
The bench strength Committee Membership On 28 March 2009 the Remuneration in key areas of the business was discussed and opportunities to Committee comprised four independent non-executive directors: further develop senior management for future leadership positions.
Louise Patten Committee Chairman, Martha Lane Fox, Steven This would involve career opportunities that retain and develop our Holliday and Sir David Michels.
best people and enable them to gain broad experience across The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the Group.
ensures that it receives information and papers in a timely manner During the year we announced changes to the management team to enable full and proper consideration of agenda items agreed in to make sure we have a proper mix of upcoming talent, combining advance in its annual meetings planner.
new recruits and existing employees.
Further consideration was also The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by given to how we induct people into Marks & Spencer to give them the the Chairman and the executive directors.
Our activities during the year During 2008 09 the Committee held Board composition On 16 October 2008 we announced the four meetings see attendance table on page 60.
Its activities during appointment of Jan du Plessis as a non-executive director on the year included: 1 November 2008.
Jan brings a wide range of international business a review of the total reward framework for directors and senior experience and brand knowledge to the Board.
He also refreshes managers: the skills and experience of the Audit Committee.
His appointment salary and benefit reviews for directors and senior managers, followed a search by an external consultancy commissioned by the including all packages for joiners and leavers: Committee.
The candidates were shortlisted by the Chairman and agreement to all share plan awards and vestings: the Deputy Chairman and the preferred candidate then seen by a target setting for bonus and share incentive plans: wider group of directors before being recommended to the Board a review of investor feedback on the 2008 AGM vote on for appointment.
remuneration 87.16% in favour : and M&S p50 61 CorpGov.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:52 Page 59 59 a review of guidelines from advisory bodies and institutional internal audits relating to key business processes and the principal investors on executive remuneration.
In October 2008 the Committee reviewed and updated its terms Further information on the Committees activities is given in the of reference in line with new Financial Reporting Council Guidance Remuneration report on pages 62 to 71. on Audit Committees.
Committee performance review In February 2009 Committee Its activities during the year included a review of: members completed a questionnaire electronically to rate their finance reports and accounting policies relating to full year and half performance.
An unattributed executive summary was then year results: distributed to all members for discussion.
engagement letter and Audit Engagement Policy for the external The 2008 09 review has confirmed that: auditors: the Committee has confidence in the alignment of senior reports from the external auditors on the major findings from their remuneration with the Companys strategic aims: audit work: all targets set both financial and non-financial are sufficiently internal audit reports on reviews of key business areas and challenging: and processes, undertaken as agreed in advance by the Committee: the Committee understands and monitors investor concerns and internal controls and risk management: receives sufficient information, advice and support to assist its tax risk management: decision-making.
going concern and counterparty risks: property values: The Committee has set itself some key actions for 2009 10 to: code of ethics and whistleblowing: set a senior remuneration framework that continues to ensure directors travel and expenses: pay for performance: and reports from management on e-commerce, finance processes and make sure that the reward framework remains aligned to the business continuity: business strategy.
progress against Plan A targets for carbon emissions, energy efficiency and waste to landfill: and The Audit Committee assurance programme for our How We Do Business Report We need robust reporting and controls.
Our oversight Plan A and CSR.
of management and financial reporting enables us to At the end of each meeting the Committee held separate meetings give shareholders the necessary assurances.
with the external and internal auditors, without management present, Jeremy Darroch, Committee Chairman to discuss matters relating to their respective areas and any issues arising from their audits.
These discussions, together with respective Committee membership On 28 March 2009 the Audit Committee audit findings and stakeholder feedback, assisted the Committee comprised five independent non-executive directors: Jeremy in determining the effectiveness and objectivity of external and Darroch Committee Chairman, Martha Lane Fox, Steven Holliday, internal audit.
Sir David Michels and Jan du Plessis, who joined the Committee on External auditors The external auditors,  1 November 2008 when he was appointed to the Board.
LLP PwC, are engaged to express an opinion on the financial The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the statements.
They review and test the systems of internal financial Committee has recent and relevant financial experience and is control and the data contained in the financial statements to the confident that the collective experience of Committee members extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
They discuss with enables it to be effective.
The Committee also has access to the management the reporting of operational results and the financial financial expertise of the Group, its external and internal auditors position of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
and can seek further professional advice at the Companys expense, The Committee keeps under review the independence and if required.
objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and process.
It has reviewed and updated the Auditor Engagement ensures that it receives information and papers in a timely manner Policy which requires prior Committee approval for certain to enable full and proper consideration of agenda items agreed engagements.
On occasions, the nature of non-audit advice may in advance in its annual meetings planner.
make it more timely and cost-effective to select PwC, who already Our activities during the year During 2008 09 the Audit have a good understanding of the Group.
Committee met five times see attendance table on page 60 to PwC may also be appointed for consultancy work, but only after coincide with key dates in the Companys financial reporting and rigorous checks, including competitive tender, to confirm they are audit cycle.
In September 2008 the Committee decided to increase the best provider.
PwC is also subject to professional standards the number of times it met during the year from four to five times which safeguard the integrity of the auditing role performed on to give more time to review with management the findings of behalf of shareholders.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:52 Page 60 60 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Corporate governance continued Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with PwC, for audit management will update the Audit Committee directly on the partner rotation in accordance with the recommendations of the controls and risk management systems operating in their areas Auditing Practices Board.
In 2008 09 Stuart Watson succeeded of responsibility.
Ranjan Sriskandan, who had been in place since 2003 04, as lead Committee performance review In February 2009 Committee audit engagement partner.
members completed a questionnaire electronically to rate their The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC be performance.
An unattributed executive summary was then proposed for reappointment by shareholders at the AGM on 8 July distributed to all members for discussion.
2009 when the Committee Chairman will be available to answer any audit-related questions.
The 2008 09 review has confirmed that: As authorised by shareholders at the AGM on 9 July 2008, the the Committee focuses its time effectively on the priority issues Committee determined the level of audit and non-audit fees for and the extra meeting has enabled more direct input from senior 2008 09 for the external auditors on behalf of the Board.
Details are management: and given in note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committees increased oversight of risks has enabled it to gain a greater understanding of managements response to the Internal audit Internal audit's work is focused on areas of priority economic downturn.
as identified by the Group Risk Profile and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved each year by the Audit Committee The Committee has set itself some key actions for 2009 10 to: and by the Board.
The Board receives a full report from internal increase focus on risk assessment and mitigating controls by audit each year on the departments work and findings and regular management to achieving financial and non-financial KPIs during updates on specific issues.
The Committee monitors and assesses the economic downturn: the role and effectiveness of internal audit on behalf of the Board.
spend more time directly with senior management to hear how In January 2009 the Committee approved proposals for they are responding to audit findings: and structural changes to internal audit as part of the Head Office review.
challenge the risks and controls relating to the development of Internal audit will continue to focus on key business risks.
Senior financial and other IT systems to make sure our investment is well spent.
Board and Committee attendance On 28 March 2009 the Board comprised 10 directors as set out below.
Jan du Plessis joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 November 2008.
Lord Burns retired as Chairman on 1 June 2008, when Sir Stuart Rose was appointed Executive Chairman and Sir David Michels was appointed Deputy Chairman.
Steven Esom retired as an executive director on 1 July 2008.
See individual committee reports on pages 58 to 60 for details of their membership.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its governance committees during the year and individual attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings.
Nomination and Remuneration Audit Name of director Board Governance Committee Committee Committee AB AB AB AB Chairman Sir Stuart Rose 10 10 2 2 Deputy Chairman Sir David Michels 10 10224455 Executive directors Kate Bostock 10 10 Ian Dyson 10 10 Steven Sharp 10 10 Non-executive Directors Jeremy Darroch 10 10 2 2 5 5 Martha Lane Fox 10 10224455 1 Steven Holliday 109214454 Louise Patten 10 102244 Jan du Plessis 6600 22 A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
B Number of meetings the director actually attended.
1 Steven Holliday was unable to attend meetings of the Board and Nomination and Governance Committee on 25 June 2008 and the Audit Committee on 29 October 2008 due to overseas business commitments with National Grid.
Steven reviewed the relevant papers and provided comments in advance to the Chairman, or Committee Chairman as appropriate.
2 Lord Burns attended the Board meetings held on 6 and 19 May 2008.
3 Steven Esom attended the Board meetings held on 6 and 19 May and 25 June 2008.
qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:52 Page 61 61 announced via the London Stock Exchange.
Relations with shareholders For more information on the resolutions being proposed at this years AGM, see the enclosed Notice of Meeting booklet.
This includes Institutional investors the Companys response to a resolution requisitioned by the Local Authority Pension Fund Forum on the combined role of Chairman Our Deputy Chairman, Sir David Michels, maintains regular contact and Chief Executive, which the Board recommends that shareholders with principal investors and representative bodies and met more vote against as it is not in the best interests of the Company.
frequently with them during 2008 09 to keep the Board informed on their governance views.
We understand shareholder concerns on Electronic communication the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is why we are making sure our governance is robust.
Following consultation in January 2008, the principal method of The Board also receives independent feedback on investor communicating with our shareholders is via our corporate website.
relations through an annual presentation by independent advisors.
In recognition of this, extensive work has gone into the redesign and This contains major investor views on Company management and development of marksandspencer.
com thecompany which now performance based on the results of an extensive survey undertaken provides increased functionality and a wealth of up-to-date and in April.
Our executive directors also play a role in our relationship with Webcasts of both our annual results in May and our half year institutional investors, meeting with them throughout the year.
All of results in November, together with News Alert emails throughout the the executive directors also attend our full and half year results year, allow us to communicate globally with all stakeholder groups.
As the focal point of contact for investors, brokers and analysts, Corporate website our investor relations team met with representatives from over 250 There is a wealth of information online, including: investment institutions during 2008 09.
com thecompany were in the UK, the team also travelled extensively throughout Europe and North America.
A detailed account of how we have applied the Codes principles and how we comply with its provisions: Private investors Latest M&S news and press releases: We make special efforts to make sure communications and policies Annual Reports and investor presentations: are appropriate for our private investors as they own a high percentage c30% of our shares.
Our Governance Framework which contains individual We include a postage paid topics card with the AGM Notice of Board profiles: matters reserved to the Board and terms Meeting so that shareholders can make their views known to us.
of reference for its Committees: The three most frequently raised topics are addressed at the AGM Our Auditor Engagement Policy for the external auditors and a summary of all comments is provided to the Board and directors of each business unit.
Throughout the year shareholders Our Code of Ethics: can also email the Chairman with their comments, write to us or Our Articles of Association: and call our telephone helplines.
As many shareholders are also customers, shareholder vouchers Our response to the FRCs latest consultation on the were once again distributed with our January dividend.
In addition to effectiveness of the Combined Code.
our registered shareholders, we saw an increased level of nominee participation this year helping us to distribute even more vouchers to indirect investors.
Governance of the Group pension schemes Annual General Meeting The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for all employees with an appointment date prior to 1 April 2002 and a defined contribution Our AGM is one of the most well attended meetings from the top scheme open to those joining the Company on or after 1 April 2002.
350 UK listed companies, regularly attracting over 1,500 people.
More information is given in note 11 on pages 92 to 94.
Shareholders who are unable to attend are encouraged to lodge The Board of the Pension Trust Trustee Board manages the their vote in advance of the meeting electronically or by using the assets of the pension scheme which are held under trust separately proxy card sent with the Notice of Meeting.
In 2008 89% of the from those of the Group.
The Trustee Board comprises Tony Watson proxy votes received were lodged electronically through the CREST as independent Chairman and Law Debenture Trust as independent system.
We also provide online voting for private investors at Trustee, together with five company representatives and five member sharevote.
Prior to the meeting an exhibition is hosted by our senior retail In March 2009 the Trustee Board carried out a review of its own and business managers.
The meeting commences with a business performance through questionnaire responses and one-to-one presentation and then the Chairman, and other members of the discussions with the Trustee Chairman.
In May 2009 the Trustee Board, answer questions raised by shareholders.
All directors attend Board reviewed the key findings and agreed actions for 2009 10. the meeting, including the chairmen of the Nomination and In February 2008 the Trustee Board appointed KPMG LLP as its Governance, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
external auditors following a review process.
Shareholders are then invited to vote on the resolutions by poll, using the electronic Vote Now system.
This gives a more democratic result as all shares represented at the meeting and those lodged before the meeting are included on a one share, one vote basis.
The indicative result is screened at the meeting with the final results
