Relationships McBride has a strong code of business ethics and expects all Resources and employees to behave with honesty, discretion, integrity and respect for all parties with whom business is transacted, including relationships customers, suppliers, contractors and agents.
Our customers The Groups main customers are the leading grocery retailers across Europe.
Like all businesses, the Groups future success is dependent on maintaining and developing its relations with current and potential customers.
Excellence in customer service is the Groups main operational priority and is a key driver Resources supporting our growth strategy.
The Group also works closely with customers to develop new products to meet their requirements.
McBride has a range of resources that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive Senior management maintain key customer relations at both corporate and business unit level.
advantage in the markets in which it operates.
We continue to invest in the areas listed below to maintain our leading position in our Our consumers chosen markets.
Millions of people use the Groups products on a regular basis.
However, as a Private Label supplier, the Group has limited direct Employees During the year ended 30 June 2009, the Group had an average of contact with the ultimate users of its products.
Nevertheless, the Group has developed considerable consumer expertise through 5,005 employees.
We recognise that the success of our business is dependent on the quality and commitment of our employees.
The extensive experience in Private Label category development, the use of consumer panels as part of New Product Development quality and effectiveness of the management of the Groups people is therefore critical to the attainment of its business objectives.
processes and active monitoring of market developments by our marketing teams.
This expertise enables us to add value to both The Group is committed to the recruitment, retention and our own business and that of our customers.
development of its employees and to helping them achieve their full career potential with McBride.
All parts of the UK business Our suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services used have Investors in People accreditation.
Employee satisfaction is monitored across all parts of the Group through a rolling, annual in our operations.
These include manufacturers of raw materials, packaging and production and information technology equipment programme of employee opinion surveys that have been in place for 19 years.
Last year the average rating for satisfaction increased and energy suppliers.
These relationships are generally managed through our central procurement team supported by the relevant once again as it has done each time it has been measured during this period.
We maintain active dialogue with our suppliers with the aim of developing mutually beneficial long-term Annual performance appraisals are conducted for all employees relationships.
This dialogue typically extends from optimising our purchasing arrangements, improving supply chain efficiency and which provide the opportunity to review performance, clarify responsibilities and objectives, address employees training and availability of alternative materials through to reducing the use of packaging and other environmental, social and ethical aspects of development needs and help match individuals career aspirations with the business needs of the Group.
The Group is committed to open communication with employees both directly and, where appropriate, via their representatives.
This is supported by the regular use of various communication channels such as site visits and open discussions involving senior managers, briefings, listening groups, Question & Answer sessions, information bulletins and newsletters.
In addition, senior management conferences are held twice per annum to set out the Groups strategy and performance and to provide clear direction on our goals and expectations.
This communication process is cascaded through the Group with local management teams holding similar conferences to communicate local strategy, performance, goals and expectations in the context of the Group position.
Other components of the Groups personnel strategy include commitments to high standards of health and safety, equal opportunities for all in recruitment, promotion, development, training and reward policies and procedures.
Reputation and market position McBride is one of the largest suppliers of Private Label Household and Personal Care products in its major markets in the UK, France, Italy and, increasingly, Poland.
The quality of its products and customer service are consistently rated highly in independent surveys.
We value our reputation, both as a supplier of Household and Personal Care products and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
McBride plc Directors report 23 Annual report and accounts 2009 Resources and relationships The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
