Audit Committee report Introduction Accounting policies The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its The Committee received regular updates on technical reporting responsibilities regarding the integrity of the Companys financial issues and on critical accounting policies.
It reviewed the Groups statements, reviewing risk management, and internal control finance policies and procedures for consistency and particularly in and the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function, areas where different approaches would have been possible.
The monitoring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the Committee satisfied itself that the financial statements give a true performance, independence, appointment, re-appointment and and fair view of the profits, assets, liabilities and financial position remuneration of external auditors, and reviewing the Companys of the Group.
External auditors Composition of the Audit Committee The Committee received reports from the external auditors The composition of the Committee fully reflects the provisions including proposals on the audit strategy for the year and reviews of The Code.
The Chairman is Colin Smith and the other members on the scope and outcome of the interim and year-end audits and are the other independent non-executive directors, Bob Lee and on control and accounting developments.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee members are sufficiently competent in financial The Committee evaluated the performance of the external matters.
Mr Smith is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered auditors during the year concluding that this was satisfactory.
The Accountants and has relevant financial experience and up to Committee will continue to periodically review the performance date knowledge of financial matters.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during The Committee monitored the external audit firms compliance the year and amendments have been made to reflect the latest with applicable ethical guidance and, in addition, considered the recommendations made by the Financial Reporting Council and independence and the objectivity of the external auditors taking other relevant guidelines with particular focus on reviews of the due account of all appropriate guidelines.
The risk of KPMG Audit Plc external auditors and risk factors linked to the changing economic leaving the market is considered remote since they are one of the conditions.
The Committees Charter is available from the Groups top four accounting firms in the UK.
co. uk As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the reThe Committee met three times during the financial year ended appointment of KPMG Audit Plc, the Audit Committee has taken 30 June 2009 in September 2008, February 2009 and May 2009. into account the tenure of the auditors and considered whether Subsequent to the year-end, a further meeting took place to there should be a full tender process.
There are no contractual consider the outcome of the annual audit for the year ended obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
Attendance at meetings by individual members In any event, the audit partner, being subject to rotation in of the Committee is shown in the table on page 32. accordance with institute best practice guidelines, will be stepping down and his responsibilities will be transferred to another partner.
Principal activities During the year, the principal activities of the Committee were The Committee considered and approved the external auditors fees as follows: for the year ended 30 June 2009.
Financial statements Independent meetings were held between the Committee The Committee received regular reports on the Groups trading members and the external auditors in the absence of the executive performance and considered reports from the external auditors directors and between the Chairman of the Committee and the and the Group Finance function on both the interim and full year external auditors.
Any critical reporting issues were discussed and the going concern assumptions and the Groups compliance The Committee has recommended to the Board the re-appointment with accounting standards and with stock exchange and legal of KPMG Audit Plc for the year ending 30 June 2010. requirements were considered.
The Committee received regular reports on audit-related and major taxation projects.
The Internal audit Committee also reviewed the financial disclosures made by The tasks undertaken by the internal audit function were subject the Group.
to regular review by the Committee.
A longer term strategy is to be developed and, in support of this, a dedicated risk and internal audit manager has been appointed to strengthen the function.
In the meantime, the Committee is satisfied that the internal processes and controls currently in place are adequate.
McBride plc Directors report 35 Annual report and accounts 2009 Audit Committee report The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Audit Committee report continued Risk management and internal control We have in place a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit The Committee received reports relating to the Companys services which has been designed to preserve the independence of approach to internal control and risk management activities.
the auditors in performing the statutory audit and it aims to avoid A self-assessment programme continued to operate during the any conflict of interest by specifying the type of non-audit work for year.
This exercise is based on regular reviews of detailed Business which the auditors can be engaged without referral to the Audit Risk Registers, assesses the adequacy of the control mechanisms Committee, for which a case-by-case decision is necessary, and in place to mitigate the risks and identifies any relevant action from which they are excluded.
In accordance with this policy, other points necessary to further protect the Companys position.
Within providers are considered for non-audit work that is awarded on the this process, risks are proactively as well as reactively assessed on basis of service and cost.
A copy of the policy is published on the a regular basis within the divisions.
The Committee has reviewed Groups website at www.
co. uk progress during the year and has concluded that the selfassessment programme has been effective with regular reviews Work was awarded during the year to other professional of any risk areas taking place and with reports being tabled on services firms for work on financial due diligence work relating to any changes, controls and mitigating actions.
More information acquisitions and tax.
A total of 0.2 million was incurred in relation is reported on pages 33 to 34. to these services.
Policies Overview The Committee reviewed the Companys updated corporate As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee policies on social and ethical and whistleblowing matters and the has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of provision of non-audit services.
It concluded that appropriate key reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity policies appear to be in place to ensure that reasonable steps have of its external auditors.
been taken to prevent fraud and to allow any improprieties to be reported.
The whistleblowing process has been refreshed and re-communicated across the Group.
Reports on the Groups treasury policy and banking facilities were reviewed by the Board as a whole.
Non-audit fees During the year 0.5 million was payable to the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc in respect of audit services for the Group.
In addition, 0.1 million was payable to the Groups auditors for non-audit services where they were best placed to undertake the work due to their knowledge of the business or as a by-product of the audit function: this was tax related work.
More details of the total non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year are set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on page 62.
McBride plc Directors report 36 Annual report and accounts 2009 Audit Committee report
