All members of the Board are present at the AGM to respond to Business risk review queries posed by individual shareholders or their representatives.
The divisions have continued to undertake their internal self-audit The Chairman also provides an update on current trading conditions.
programmes during the year to review their business risks and At each AGM the Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details to rate their impact and review actions and internal controls to of all proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, and the mitigate them.
The review ensures that business risk assessment is number of abstentions.
Subsequently, the results are also published integral to general business processes and ensures that risks are on the Groups website at www.
co. uk reviewed on a regular basis taking account of the dynamic nature of both the business and the external environment in which the Group Internal control and risk management operates.
Risks are assessed both at divisional and at Group level in The internal control system, which accords with the Turnbull terms of their potential impact on the business, mitigating controls Guidance, embraces all material controls and business risks, and actions and the risk reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
including financial, operational and strategic risks, and incorporates The reviews consider all aspects of the Groups activities, including a full review of compliance controls and risk management across financial, commercial, supply chain, employee and operational the Group.
This system is operated as an integral part of the impacts, including environmental, social and governance risk.
organisation of executive responsibilities and accountabilities Particular attention has been paid during the year to any risks and has been reviewed by the Board.
associated with the current economic climate.
The principal risks and uncertainties by the Group are reported on pages 21 and 22.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is designed to Internal control procedures manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Management responsibility and accountability.
The Group objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance has clearly defined management responsibility and reporting lines.
that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or material The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly loss and that transactions are properly authorised and recorded.
with divisional management to review progress on financial, The processes in place also assist the Board in identifying whether commercial, operational, supply chain, human resources, health, the Group has any significant failings or weaknesses in its internal safety and environment issues as well as regulatory and legal control system.
The executive directors are responsible for implementing the risk Corporate planning.
The Group produces a Corporate Plan each management strategy and for ensuring its effective operation.
year which is approved by the Board.
It focuses on the market Accountability for managing operational risks is delegated to environment, Group strategy and objectives, actions to achieve the divisional management teams who review and assess risk them and implementation through the divisions.
Strengths, management matters as part of their business processes and weaknesses, risks and opportunities are highlighted at a divisional risk controls and actions are regularly adjusted in response to the and Group level.
The implementation of the Plan is monitored via changing market environment.
Emergency response plans, crisis the progress of key project plans in the monthly GMT meeting.
management plans and operational disaster recovery plans are in place with the objective of minimising the adverse consequences Budgeting and reporting.
There is a comprehensive annual of a serious incident and to ensure that any control failures are budgeting process that is ultimately approved by the Board.
suitably escalated to senior management and the Board as Financial performance against budget is monitored and challenged necessary.
Such procedures are updated regularly and are made centrally and full year forecasts are updated each quarter.
The available to all senior managers.
Progress is overseen by the Audit Board is regularly updated on the Groups financial performance Committee with an annualised consolidated review of the risk and position against targets.
profile of the Group being undertaken to identify any major risk exposure and to consider any appropriate mitigating actions.
Detailed management accounts are prepared each month, consolidated in a single system and reviewed in detail with Whistleblowing procedures are in place for individuals to the divisional teams and the GMT.
Analyses include a comprehensive report suspected breaches of law or regulations or other set of commercial, operational, environmental, financial and people serious malpractices.
key performance indicators KPIs which are reported across the Group.
Performance against targets and sharing of best practice The Groups internal control and risk management activities are are discussed regularly at meetings at site, division and Group levels.
managed through business risk reviews and a supporting detailed The adequacy and suitability of existing KPIs are reviewed regularly.
set of internal control procedures.
An internal resource has been Divisional Managing Directors and Finance Directors are asked to sign established to work on internal audit projects and to provide a detailed Internal Control Questionnaire to confirm their compliance assurances to the Audit Committee that relevant controls and with the Group Accounting Manual and specifically to confirm the actions are in place.
adequacy and accuracy of accounting provisions.
McBride plc Directors report 33 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents Corporate governance report continued Expenditure approval.
Authorisation and control procedures are External auditors.
The Groups external auditors add a further in place for expenditure on capital projects and a process also exists independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial to review capital expenditure post investment to highlight issues, control system as a result of their work.
motivate management to achieve forecast benefits and improve future projects.
Authorisation procedures for operating costs Board.
The Board considers any high level risks at Group level and contractual commitments are reviewed regularly.
Approval and delegates specific responsibility to members of the GMT to responsibilities and limits were reviewed and reissued during the year.
consider and reassess the effectiveness of the existing controls and to identify whether any new actions are necessary to Documented policies.
There are documented policies for a strengthen existing control systems.
This exercise also considers range of subjects including human resources matters, expenditure, whether any new risks have arisen as a result of any control failings treasury and financial reporting.
The Group Finance Manual or weaknesses and the extent to which any unforeseen outcome defines accounting policies and controls to be followed by all may lead to a material impact on the Groups financial performance Group companies, including reporting responsibilities, approval or condition.
The Board also considers the effectiveness of the procedures and the detailed Internal Control Questionnaire.
A combination of internal and external resources The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal has been established to assess and improve the effectiveness of the controls and risk management procedures during the year and is risk management, control and governance processes of the Group.
satisfied that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating A dedicated risk and internal audit manager has been appointed to and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in start in 2009. place for the year under review and has remained in place up to the date of approval of the Directors Report.
All risks are regularly Site inspections.
Property inspections are carried out by the Groups reviewed and the key corporate risks are referred to in the Business insurers on a rolling basis at all sites and a report is produced for Review section of this report.
The Board has concluded that the key each site outlining risk improvement recommendations.
In addition, business risks of McBride are well controlled and that the controls detailed independent audits of site health and safety risks have and procedures are adequate and appropriate.
been undertaken and actions put in place to improve the risk base.
Regular face to face meetings are held to ensure regular progress reports are provided to insurers against the risk recommendations identified.
The cash position is monitored daily across the Group and variances from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
Working capital balances are analysed in detail and in all cases significant variances against expectations are analysed thoroughly.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews internal reports and reports from the external auditors.
The Committee feeds back the results of its deliberations to the Board taking account of any changes in the nature and extent of any significant risks together with the Groups ability to respond to such changes and after having considered the scope and quality of the ongoing monitoring of risks and the systems of internal control.
McBride plc Directors report 34 Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance report
