Nomination Committee report The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist the Board in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its sub-committees, to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies, to formulate succession plans for executive and non-executive directors, and to recommend the election or re-election of directors to the Board.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and minor changes were made to reflect the revisions to The Code made in 2008.
It was concluded that the Charter complies with all relevant guidelines and operates satisfactorily.
The Committees Charter is available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk The Committees Chairman is the Chairman of the Board and the other members comprise the three non-executive directors, Christine Bogdanowicz-Bindert, Bob Lee and Colin Smith, and the Chief Executive, Miles Roberts.
Two meetings of the Committee were held during the year in July 2008 and May 2009.
These meetings were convened for the purposes of assessing the contributions of the individual directors: to consider their re-election to the Board as appropriate: to review the composition of the sub-committees of the Board: and to confirm the appointment of a new Group Finance Director to the Board.
Mr Ian Johnson subsequently resigned with effect from April 2009 and a process was immediately started with a leading search consultant to secure his replacement.
At a meeting in July 2009, subsequent to the year-end, the Committee reviewed the recommendations of the search consultant and recommended to the Board the appointment of Richard Armitage as the new Group Finance Director with effect from November 2009.
Responsibility for the drawing up of an appropriate service contract setting out the terms and conditions, expectations and responsibilities of the role was assumed by the Remuneration Committee.
In the same meeting the Committee carried out the following activities: Assessment of the contributions made by the individual directors prior to recommending their re-election to the Board: Consideration of the re-election of the independent nonexecutive directors and of the Chairman to the Board: Consideration of the continuation of Colin Smith in the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Reviews of the composition of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Sub-Committees of the Board.
No Committee member participated in any discussion relating to their personal position.
McBride plc Directors report 37 Annual report and accounts 2009 Nomination Committee report The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
