Directors Statement on Corporate Governance The Chairman also talks with and holds meetings on an informal basis Statement of Appliance of the Principles with the other non executive directors without the executives present.
in the Combined Code The Chairmans performance was appraised by the non executive The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in directors in January, 2006.
Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in July 2003 by complying with There were no circumstances arising during the year where it was the Code of Best Practice as reported in the Statement of Compliance necessary to record unresolved concerns in the Boards minutes.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers insurance.
Directors The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities which has been approved and agreed 1.
The Board in writing by the Board.
Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2004. and is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring its leadership.
It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to all in place and reviews performance on a regular basis.
The Board is directors and the Chairman is satisfied that effective communication, responsible for setting the Groups values and standards and for principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is ensuring its obligations to shareholders, employees and others undertaken with the shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the are met.
contribution of non executive directors and the relationship between The non executive directors play a full part by constructively challenging them and the executive directors.
and contributing to the development of strategy.
The performance of management is monitored, as is the integrity of financial information 3.
Board Balance and Independence and effectiveness of financial controls and risk management systems.
The non executive directors are responsible for determining appropriate The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and non levels of remuneration for the executive directors and have an executive directors, is of a size and includes skills and experience important role in the appointment of new directors.
appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Board meets regularly and receives reports from the Chief Details of the non executive directors considered to be independent are Executive on the Groups activities, from the Group Finance Director provided above.
For the period from 1 January 2005 to 1 March 2005 the on financial performance and treasury matters and from the Group Board consisted of five executive and four non executive directors of Corporate Affairs Director on legal and compliance issues.
Approval whom three were considered to be independent.
From 1 March 2005 of the Group budget and forecasts, strategic issues, organisational when Dr R W Greaves and Mr J J Stobie resigned there have been development and other items including such matters as capital three executive directors and three independent non executive directors structure, financial reporting and controls are considered in line in addition to the Chairman.
with a schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board.
The senior independent non executive director is Sir Alan Cox.
He is If a decision is not reserved for the Board then authority lies, in available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through accordance with an authorisation policy, with one of the Finance the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is Committee of the Board, the Chief Executive, an executive director inappropriate.
Notwithstanding his appointment as a director for or the managing directors of the individual business units.
more than nine years, the Board considers Sir Alan has retained The Chairman is Sir Colin Terry and the Chief Executive is Mr T Twigger.
The independent non executive directors are considered by the Board 4.
Appointments to the Board to be Sir Alan Cox, Mr P J Hill and Mr D A Robins.
The Nominations Committee considers any new appointments to the Committee membership, number of formal meetings held during 2005 Board but all directors are consulted and the decision to appoint is and attendance is shown in the following table: taken by the Board as a whole.
A majority of members are independent No.
of non executive directors and the Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
of The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee are available on during meetings year attended the Companys website.
Audit The terms and conditions of appointment of non executive directors are Sir Alan Cox Chairman 3 3 available for inspection.
The letters of appointment set out the expected Mr P J Hill 3 3 time commitment required and on appointment their other significant Mr D A Robins 3 3 commitments were disclosed along with the time involved.
Remuneration No executive director has a non executive directorship or chairmanship Mr D A Robins Chairman 4 4 of a FTSE 100 company.
Sir Alan Cox 4 4 The Nominations Committee met during the year to discuss a successor Mr P J Hill 4 4 for Sir Alan Cox as Chairman of the Audit Committee and the division of Nominations Mr Greens role as an executive director and company secretary.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman 1 1 Sir Alan Cox 1 1 5.
Information and Professional Development Mr D A Robins 1 1 Mr P J Hill 1 1 The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and Mr T Twigger 1 1 of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
On joining the Board new directors receive an appropriate induction to The full Board met on eight occasions and these meetings were the business.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new non attended by all directors, except Mr Robins who was excused from one executive directors should they wish to do so.
The Board visited a number of the Groups businesses and met with their senior management.
Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 33 Directors Statement on Corporate Governance continued Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and their The policy of the Remuneration Committee is to offer executive knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to directors contracts requiring one years notice from the Company.
senior management, receiving reports on the business and visits to Should the Company terminate the contracts in breach of the contract the Groups operating facilities.
Resources are available to directors terms then damages would be due which are equivalent to for developing and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
remuneration for the unexpired period of notice less 5%.
The Board of Directors has established a procedure for all directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where 2.
Procedure they judge it necessary.
Committees are provided with sufficient The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of three resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the members, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The Board advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the has approved written terms of reference for the Committee which are Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that available on the Companys website.
During 2004 Towers Perrin were there is a good information flow within the Board.
The appointment and appointed as advisors to the Committee: they have no other known removal of the Company Secretary are a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Nominations Committee has agreed to appoint a Company The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting Secretary in addition to Mr Green continuing as an executive director remuneration packages, including pension arrangements, for all responsible for legal, compliance and administrative matters as soon executive directors and senior management and for agreeing the fees as a suitable candidate can be recruited.
The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting the fees of the non executive directors within the limits set 6.
Performance Evaluation in the Articles of Association.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
In January, 2006 the Board conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees.
The Chairman led a discussion to consider the Boards behaviours and processes and the Board agreed its C. Accountability and Audit high level objectives for the year ahead.
The Board was satisfied with its effectiveness.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees have also 1.
Financial Reporting considered their own performance during the year.
The performance This report and accounts contains an explanation of the directors of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman and Chief responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by Executive in discussion with other non executive directors.
The non the auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also report executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, that the business is a going concern.
taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Re-Election The Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The system is general meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve at intervals of no more than three years.
Non executive directors are business objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance against appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms full implementation to re-election and the provisions of the Companies Act relating to the of the guidance issued by Turnbull.
In order that the Board can review the effectiveness of the system Biographical and other relevant information on directors submitted of internal control, the following procedures are in place: for election or re-election will be provided in the Notice of the Annual 1.
The Board receives regular reports at Board Meetings on the state General Meeting.
of the business from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and regularly receives a report on legal and compliance B.
Directors Remuneration activities from the Group Corporate Affairs Director.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness 1.
The Level and Make-up of Remuneration of the internal control environment of the Group.
At these meetings it receives reports from the external auditors and the Internal Audit The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving department.
Internal audit visits to operating units are planned remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate executive using a risk model.
directors of the required quality.
A significant portion of an individual 3.
The Board has an Ethics and Export Compliance Committee which directors remuneration is performance related through a combination quarterly reviews these areas of compliance.
of cash bonus and share schemes in order to align their interests with 4.
Annually a review of the risk environment and the Groups key risks those of the shareholders and to incentivise them.
is presented to the Board for their consideration.
Executive share options when granted are only at market value.
Every month, each business submits detailed operating and The Committee follows schedule A of the Code.
financial reports covering all aspects of their performance.
These are reviewed and, subject to materiality, issues are communicated The level of fees for non executive directors is set to reflect the to the Management Board and main Board.
time commitment and responsibilities of the role after consulting 6.
On an annual basis, each business managing director provides independent surveys of such fees.
Non executive directors are not written confirmation that the business for which he is responsible entitled to receive share options.
has been in compliance with the Group Procedures Manual.
None of the executive directors serves as a non executive director 7.
Annually, the Board receives a report on the insurance coverage for another company.
in place and the risks which remain uninsured.
The Remuneration Committee has appointed Towers Perrin to advise The on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the on remuneration packages for executive directors.
Towers Perrin significant risks faced by the Group is as follows: conducted a benchmarking exercise of the value of the total 1.
Following a series of risk workshops facilitated by risk professionals remuneration received by executive directors during late 2004 and at business, divisional and Group level to identify and analyse the key updated their advice in late 2005.
The Committee considered this risks faced by the Group, the Board reviewed the list of those risks advice when reviewing salaries to take effect from 1 January 2006. and the mitigation plan.
These risks will be regularly reviewed by the individual operating businesses, by divisional management and then, by exception, by the Management Board.
34 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 2.
There is a regular review of the performance of each business D. Relations with Shareholders undertaken by the executive directors and senior Group management.
There is a Group Procedures Manual, the purpose of which is to establish appropriate authority levels throughout the Group to cover The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private certain items of expenditure, financial commitments and other investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional matters, which are regarded as essential in order to ensure that investors and analysts is promoted by way of meetings involving the overall financial control is maintained throughout the Group.
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
There is a comprehensive insurance programme.
issues as strategy, performance and policy.
There are programmes for business continuity, health and safety, The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief environmental, export compliance and ethics.
The Chairman and other non executive directors are 6.
There is an on-going programme of assurance activities including available to attend meetings with shareholders if they are requested internal audit, external audit, external tax compliance review, to do so.
In addition to the Chief Executives regular reports, directors environmental audits, health and safety audits, property risk may develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders reviews and export regulation compliance reviews.
from presentations by the Companys brokers to the whole Board and attendance at analysts briefings as required.
Analysts notes on the The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
Company are made available to all directors.
The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 102% 2.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting of underlying operating profit in 2005.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an occasion for communication with its shareholders.
All proxy votes are counted by 3.
Audit Committee and Auditors the Companys Registrars and the level of voting on each resolution is made available at the end of the meeting.
Separate resolutions are The Board has appointed an Audit Committee consisting of three proposed at the Annual General Meeting on substantially separate independent non executive directors under the Chairmanship of issues and there is a resolution relating to the report and accounts.
The Board is satisfied that amongst the Committees members there is recent and relevant financial experience.
The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to respond The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee to questions and it is usual for all other directors to attend.
which are available on the Companys website.
During 2005 the It is the intention of the Board that the Notice of the Annual General Committee met on three occasions.
The external auditors attended these meetings to discuss the scope and the final results of the 2004 Meeting and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
audit in detail which included the main risks facing the Group the strategy for the 2005 audit, the hard close results of the 2005 audit along with any other items which the auditors or the non executive Statement of Compliance with the Provisions directors wished to discuss.
The Audit Committee Chairman also of the Combined Code separately meets the external auditors in advance of each Audit Committee meeting.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the internal The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 control environment of the Group and received reports from Internal the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Audit as described above.
The progress of Internal Audit is considered 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial in the Audit Committee meetings.
Services Authority with the following exceptions: a A.
3.2 until 1 March 2005 at least half of the Board, excluding the The Company places great importance on the independence of its Chairman, did not comprise independent non executive directors.
auditors and, together with them, is careful to ensure their objectivity This was rectified following the resignations of Dr R W Greaves and is not compromised.
The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the b B.
2.1 Sir Alan Cox is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
Notwithstanding his appointment as a non executive director for more than nine years, the Board considers that he remains entirely The Committee is responsible for agreeing the fees to be paid to external independent and that his extensive experience in industry and auditors in respect of their services as auditors.
The Companys general commerce make him a valuable member of the Committee.
policy in respect of other non-audit fees is: c C. 3.1 Sir Alan Cox is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to Notwithstanding his appointment as a non executive director for undertake those services which they are required to, and most more than nine years, the Board considers that he remains entirely suited to, perform.
The Board believes it is in the interests of the Company taxation: the Companys principal tax advisers are for Sir Alan to continue to be a member of and to Chair the Audit Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Committee due to his extensive experience gained as a former member consulting: the Companys policy is not to employ its external of the Financial Reporting Council, and in industry and commerce.
auditors for general consulting work where this could impair their independence or objectivity.
The Audit Committee is required to approve any fees to the external Going Concern auditors in excess of 100,000.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the An Ethics Line exists which enables employees to raise any concerns time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in otherwise.
These arrangements allow for proportionate and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the independent investigation and for appropriate follow-up action.
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
This statement also constitutes part of the The Committee reviews at each meeting the activities of the Internal Financial Review on pages 20 and 21.
Audit function and regularly reviews its effectiveness.
Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 35
