24 Corporate Governance 888 is listed on the London Stock Exchange, but it is not Non-executive review and performance appraisal technically subject to the UK Combined Code on Corporate The Chairman plans to hold meetings at least one per year Governance issued in July 2003 the Code because it is with the Nonexecutive Directors without the Executive a Gibraltar registered company.
The Directors support the Directors being present.
Led by the Senior Independent high standards of Corporate Governance set out in the Director, the Nonexecutive Directors also plan to meet Code and will apply the principles as far as practicable for without the Chairman present at least once a year to a company based outside the UK.
This statement sets out appraise the performance of the Chairman.
In the period how the Board has applied the principles set out in Section from flotation to 31 December 2005, no such meetings 1 of the Code, from the date of the Companys flotation on were held.
The Directors have wide ranging business 4 October 2005. experience, and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Boards decision making.
The Board The Directors consider it essential that the Company should The Board considers that Brian Mattingley, Michael be both led and controlled by an effective Board.
Constantine and Amos Pickel satisfy the criteria of the Code to act as Independent Nonexecutive Directors.
The Board Composition is satisfied that, at flotation, the former Chairman met the The Board consists of three Independent Nonexecutive independence criteria of the Code, as did Richard Kilsby Directors, a Nonexecutive Chairman, and three Executive upon his appointment as Chairman.
The Chairman is not Directors, comprising Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial considered as independent for the purposes of assessing Officer and Chief Technical Officer.
The biographical details the balance of the Board pursuant to the Code.
of all the Directors are given on page 21.
Brian Mattingley was appointed Deputy Chairman and Strategic approach Senior Independent Director on 9 March 2006.
The Board focuses upon the Groups longterm objectives, strategic and policy issues and considers management of Reserved powers and delegation key risks facing the Group.
The Board is responsible for A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been acquisitions and divestments, major capital expenditure adopted and its content is being kept under review as the projects and considering Group budgets and dividend policy.
business develops, to align it with operational needs and The Board also determines key appointments.
The Board the Boards preference to monitor and, where appropriate, receives regular updates on shareholders views and more approve matters of substance to the Group as a whole.
detailed briefings are to be given to the Board immediately Senior executives have given written undertakings to ensure following the publication of the Companys annual and compliance within their business operations with the interim results.
Boards formal schedule of matters reserved for itself for decision or approval.
Within these parameters, a framework The Board has established a calendar of business within of delegated authorities is being developed to ensure that which it is currently working, post flotation, to structure the management can exercise on an ongoing basis requisite conduct of its activities going forward.
This provides for the authority for an effective business operation.
financial calendar, strategic planning, annual budgets and performance selfassessments, as well as the conduct of Division of responsibilities standing business.
The calendar is intended to form the The responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and formally basis for effective integration of business activities as defined, with the Chairman being responsible for the between the Board and its principal Committees see pages effective operation of the Board as a whole and supporting 25 and 26, which individually consider their own operating key external relationships.
frameworks against the Boards business programme.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the daytoday The Board plans to meet eight times a year.
In the period management of the business.
The Chief Executive Officer from flotation to 31 December 2005, the Board met twice chairs an Operations Forum, which is a working group and all of the Directors attended each of the Board meetings.
Its principal function is Adhoc meetings can be convened to attend to any matters to act as a conduit for communication between different requiring Board consideration in between regular meetings.
areas of the Groups business and allow the interchange of ideas, as well as feedback, between the research and The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas development, marketing and operational functions across for Board meetings are set in advance.
Executive Directors meet individually and are, where practicable, issued to Directors sufficiently collectively with heads of functions and line management in advance of meetings to facilitate both informed debate to coordinate business priorities.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 25 Other issues The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on All Directors have access to the advice and services of request to the Company Secretary and are included on the the Company Secretary and the Companys nominated Companys website, www.
advisers, who are responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Directors are able to seek In summary, the Committee assists the Board in independent professional advice, if required, at the discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial Companys expense provided that they have first notified reporting, external and internal audits and controls, their intention to do so.
The appointment or removal of the including reviewing 888s annual financial statements, Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
considering the scope of annual audit and the extent of nonaudit work undertaken by external Auditors, The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous approving 888s internal audit programme, advising and transparent procedure for the induction of new on the appointment of external Auditors and reviewing Directors, which is to be formulated with the guidance the effectiveness of internal control systems.
Following a review in 2005 by the Audit Committee, The opportunity to hold office as Nonexecutive Directors of the Board adopted on 31 January 2006 a Groupwide other companies enables Directors of 888 to broaden their framework enabling employees to raise any concerns under experience and knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
a formalised Whistleblowing policy, in confidence, and Executive Directors may be allowed to accept Nonexecutive with the assurance of employment protection under the appointments with the Boards prior permission, so long as policy.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Directors and reviewing the operation of this policy.
may be required to account for fees received from such other companies.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee assists the Board in The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of any legal action against its Directors.
To the extent of the Board.
The Nominations Committee is responsible permitted by Gibraltar law, the Company also indemnifies for reviewing, from time to time, the structure of the Board, the Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity determining succession plans for the Chairman and Chief provides cover where a Director has acted fraudulently Executive Officer, and identifying and recommending or dishonestly.
suitable candidates for appointment as Directors.
The Nominations Committees terms of reference are available Re-election of Directors on request to the Company Secretary and are included on All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders the Companys website, www.
at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of The Nominations Committee comprises three Independent Association of the Company, at intervals of no more than Nonexecutive Directors, Michael Constantine Chair, Brian three years.
Richard Kilsby Nonexecutive Chairman, Mattingley, Amos Pickel and Richard Kilsby, Chairman.
Brian Mattingley, Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel The Nominations Committee did not meet during 2005 the Independent Nonexecutive Directors are appointed and at this early stage from flotation, has not undertaken for an initial period of three years, following reappointment, a formal evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and if approved, by shareholders at the first Annual General experience on the Board.
This extends to director training, Meeting after their appointment.
Audit Committee The Nominations Committee will, in 2006, be considering The Audit Committee comprises three Independent a structured framework for Board, Committee and Director Nonexecutive Directors: Brian Mattingley Chair, Michael evaluations and other matters within a programme of Constantine and Amos Pickel.
During 2005, Richard Kilsby activities designed to address its assigned terms was Chairman of the Audit Committee until his appointment of reference.
as Chairman of the Company in March 2006.
The Board is satisfied that Brian Mattingley has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to chair the Audit Committee.
Normally, by invitation, the Chief Financial Officer and Internal Auditor attend Committee meetings, as can representatives of the external Auditors.
In 2005, the Committee met once and all of the Committee members attended the meeting.
26 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee on internal control, and for reviewing the effectiveness The Companys Remuneration Committee was formed at of internal control.
It is managements role to implement flotation and comprises solely Independent Nonexecutive Board policies on risk and control, including reporting.
Brian Mattingley chairs the Committee and its system of internal control is designed to manage rather than other members are Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Richard Kilsby was a member of the Committee up until his and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, appointment as Chairman of the Company.
The Remuneration assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Both meetings of the Committee were attended by all of the Committee members The Regulatory and Compliance Committee has during the period.
It anticipates meeting not less than twice responsibility for assisting in the implementation of in 2006 to address its responsibilities under its formal terms an effective framework of policies and procedures, of reference, through the creation of a considered schedule Groupwide.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit The Committee assists the Board in determining its Committee to review, ongoing, the appropriateness responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including and adequacy of systems of internal control and make making recommendations to the Board on 888s policy recommendations to the Board.
The Company has an on executive remuneration, determining the individual Internal Auditor who reports to the Audit Committee, remuneration and benefits of each of the Executive whose audit program for 2006 has been reviewed by Directors, and recommending and monitoring the the Audit Committee.
remuneration of senior management below Board level.
888s risk management team, based in Gibraltar, has The Remuneration Report, which outlines the Committees developed stringent risk management and fraud control work and details of Directors remuneration, is on procedures.
The team makes use of external and internal pages 29 to 34.
The Remuneration Committees terms systems to manage the risks faced by 888s operational of reference are available on request to the Company systems.
Detailed procedures exist throughout the Secretary and are included on the Companys website, Companys operations and compliance is monitored www.
by operational management and the Internal Auditor.
Regulatory and Compliance Committee An extensive risk review was conducted preparatory to Although not specifically recommended by the Combined the flotation in October 2005: Part II of the Prospectus Code, the Board has established a Regulatory and described risk factors faced by the Group.
The Directors Compliance Committee to assist 888 to conduct its have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems operations in accordance with the highest ethical of internal control, taking account of key risks identified standards.
In particular, the Regulatory and Compliance during the flotation process.
The review considered Committee assists the Board in relation to compliance individual risk control responsibilities, reporting lines and with all current and prospective applicable regulatory qualitative assessments of residual risks.
The results and legal requirements, as well as the development and have been discussed by the Audit Committee, which has implementation of 888s internal codes and policies.
advised the Board on the ongoing development of corporate controls.
The Audit Committee is guiding internal audit on The Committee comprises Michael Constantine Chair the establishment of a framework for the monitoring of since March 2006, Richard Kilsby, Amos Pickel and John management processes operated to develop, integrate Anderson.
The Committee did not meet during 2005 but has and embed effective Groupwide controls.
done so since the year end to plan a calendar of activities and determine interaction with the Audit Committee.
Relations with Shareholders and Key Financial Audiences The Regulatory and Compliance Committees terms of The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue reference are available on request from the Company with principal and institutional shareholders and sellside Secretary and are included on the Companys website, analysts through a planned programme of investor relations www.
The outcome of these meetings is reported to the whole Board to ensure it keeps in touch Risk Management and Internal Control with shareholder and City opinion.
The programme includes The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for formal presentations of full year and interim results.
the Companys system of internal control, for setting policy 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 27 Brian Mattingley, the Senior Independent Director, is Other aspects which 888 promotes include: available to shareholders to address any issues that normal providing the highest levels of service and support contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief to the Groups members: Financial Officer has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
protecting member privacy and the proper handling and use of data in accordance with applicable law: All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2006 Annual ongoing training, development and motivation of General Meeting and private investors are encouraged to employees to retain the widest possible range of take advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions.
talented staff: and The Chairmen or nominated members of the Audit, provision of a safe and healthy workplace in accordance Remuneration, Nominations and Regulatory and Compliance with relevant legislation.
Committees will attend the meeting and be available to answer questions.
Service and Support to Members 888 is committed to providing the highest levels of service Compliance with the Code Provisions and support to its members.
There is a dedicated team As 888 Holdings Public Limited Company is registered in of inhouse trained member support representatives Gibraltar, it is subject to compliance with Gibraltar statutory for each of the Groups brands providing support 24 7 requirements and is not technically bound by the UK in up to 11 different languages.
A separate, highly skilled Combined Code.
The main legislation relevant to companies team is dedicated to VIP members.
Member support in Gibraltar is the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance, which is representatives are strictly monitored and benefit from based on the UK Companies Act 1929. ongoing refresher training courses.
888 has retained leading call centre experts to further enhance the quality The Board of Directors confirm that, since flotation, the of its member support.
Company has complied with the majority of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The exception Protecting Member Privacy is the performance evaluation of the Board which has not All 888s online products maintain a privacy policy which been undertaken given that there has been insufficient is clearly accessible from each of the Groups websites, time, since flotation, for it to be meaningful.
explaining how the Group deals with members personal data.
All processing of members personal data is Going Concern undertaken inhouse and where personal data is transferred After reviewing the Groups budget for 2006 and its medium between Group companies, appropriate intraGroup term plans, the Directors are confident that the Company processing contracts are put in place.
and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The EU Directive on Data Protection has recently been They have therefore continued to adopt the going concern enacted in Gibraltar but has not yet been brought into force.
basis in preparing its financial statements.
888 has for some time carried out the processing of its members personal data accordingly, in accordance with Corporate and Social Responsibility Statement the EU Directive.
The Groups Chief Executive Officer is the Director responsible for monitoring corporate and social Employees responsibility within 888.
The Board receives periodic The Group respects individuals human rights and treats reports on the Groups activities in this area from the individuals with dignity and respect.
The Board supports Chief Executive Officer.
high standards of employment practice, including providing equal opportunities in the workplace in terms of selection, Members promotion, training and development and a safe The Board is eager to promote online gaming as a environment in which to work.
The Group has reviewed responsible, selfregulating industry which is prepared its compliance with health and safety legislation in its to submit itself to regulatory licensing and believe this is a various locations.
key factor in attracting more participation in online gaming activities.
888 has sought to take the lead in setting the industry standards and a separate report on Responsible Gaming is set out on page 22.
28 Corporate Governance Training and Development Communication Training and development is provided to individuals The Board values the involvement of all the Groups throughout their career to enable employees to maintain employees and is committed to communicating effectively and improve standards of performance, deal effectively with them through formal and informal meetings and with any changes to the work environment and to develop internal publications, including inhouse newsletters their abilities and realise their potential.
Selection for and employee reports.
further training and development is based upon individual and business needs.
2006 will see the launch of the Community 888 Certification Scheme, an initiative that develops Sponsorship all employees, regardless of level, covering a range of 888 is a sizeable employer with a visible presence in disciplines unique to our brand.
Gibraltar and enjoys a good relationship with the local community.
During 2005 the Group has reinforced this Equal Opportunities relationship by making contributions to a number of local 888 is an equal opportunity employer.
No employee or causes, primarily educational.
potential employee will therefore receive less favourable treatment due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic Charities origin, religion, political or other opinion, affiliation, gender, In 2005 the Group made regular donations to Free the sexual orientation, marital status, family connections, Children, EarthAction and NetAid.
The Group also made membership or nonmembership of a trade union a donation to the Disasters Emergency Committee or disability.
