Misys plc Corporate governance report The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate Directors being present under the chairmanship of the senior governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys independent Director, and during the year they met in May shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs 2005 when the matters under discussion were succession of the Group.
Following the establishment in 2003 of the revised planning and the results of the Boards performance Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and the evaluation exercise.
Guidance on Audit Committees, the Board reviewed and modified As part of its performance evaluation, the Company has its corporate governance structure, policies and procedures.
reviewed the availability of the non-executive Directors and The Board confirms that the Company was fully compliant considers that each of those due to stay on the Board after the with all the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 2005 AGM is able to devote the necessary amount of time to 31 May 2005, except for the roles of Chairman and Chief the business of the Company.
Executive Officer being combined in the same person provisions No executive Director has more than one non-executive A.
1.3, the reasons for which are explained below directorship with a FTSE 100 company.
As reported above, under The Board: Responsibilities.
the Chairman is a non-executive Director of Marks and Spencer Group plc and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
The Board is of THE BOARD the opinion that this appointment does not impinge significantly COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE on his duties as Chairman of Misys.
The Board currently comprises the executive Chairman, four other executive Directors and seven independent non-executive RESPONSIBILITIES Directors including the senior independent Director, Sir Dominic The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct Cadbury.
Their biographies appear on pages 26 and 27.
The of the Companys business and determines Group strategy, Board collectively has a wide range of relevant business, reviews trading performance, ensures adequate funding and financial and international experience, which is vital to the examines major investments.
It has a formal schedule of matters successful direction of a global company.
Al-Noor Ramji was reserved for its decision including approval of the accounts appointed a non-executive Director on 1 February 2005.
He and dividends, significant strategic decisions, Group budget, is Chief Information Officer of BT Group plc, as well as Chief transactions and settlement of litigation over a certain threshold, Executive Officer of BT Exact, BTs research, technology and IT fundamental changes to the internal control system, the operations business.
He brings to the Board valuable experience adoption of new employee incentivisation plans, and the and expertise gained in both information technology and the delegation of authority to committees and individual Directors.
Robert Ingram will be retiring from The full schedule is available on the Companys website.
the Board at the 2005 AGM and a replacement non-executive In relation to provision A.
2.1 of the Code which states that the Director will be sought.
The Company has also announced that roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised Ian Dyson will retire from the Board no later than the 2005 by the same individual, the Board believes that, in the case AGM following his appointment as Group Finance Director of of Misys, there is a sufficient distribution of responsibilities Marks and Spencer Group plc as the Misys Chairman, Kevin at the top of the Company to ensure that effective power is Lomax, is a non-executive Director of Marks and Spencer Group not unduly concentrated in the hands of one individual.
The plc and chairman of its Audit Committee.
The Board is actively integrity of the individual Directors and the current balance of seeking a replacement non-executive Director for Ian Dyson with five executive Directors 2004: five and seven independent nonrecent and relevant financial experience.
executive Directors 2004: six is such that no individual or small The Board has conducted a review and considers all the nongroup of individuals can dominate the Boards decision taking.
executive Directors to be independent in accordance with As part of the Boards programme of succession planning, within provision A.
In doing so, the Board considered the next two to three years and subject to the consent of the a number of factors, including whether each non-executive Board at the time, it is intended that the role of executive Director is objective, provides a challenge to management, Chairman will be split into two roles, those of Chief Executive is prepared to challenge the views of others, has a good and non-executive Chairman.
understanding of the business and has the best interests of the The Board is actively recruiting to ensure it maintains a majority Company in mind.
Tony Alexander has served on the Board for of independent non-executive Directors for the foreseeable nine years, having been appointed a non-executive Director on future.
Sir Dominic Cadbury has been nominated by the Board 1 May 1996.
The Board considers that he continues to as the senior independent Director, and provides an alternative demonstrate all of the aforementioned characteristics.
There is to the Chairman as a contact at Board level for shareholders.
no evidence that length of tenure is having an adverse impact Responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the Banking, on his independence.
Therefore the Board regards him as and Healthcare divisions is under the control of their respective independent notwithstanding his service having exceeded nine Chief Executive Officers who sit on the Misys Board.
In compliance with the Code and as agreed at the 2004 Sesame reports directly to the executive Chairman.
Responsibility AGM when he stood for re-election, he will stand for re-election for the strategic development of the Group is shared among annually until he retires from the Board.
the Chairman, the Corporate Development Director, and the The non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate divisional Chief Executive Officers, with input from senior accountability by bringing their independent judgement to managers around the Group.
bear on issues brought before the Board and Board Committees.
A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate They bring considerable knowledge and experience from other circumstances, to take independent professional advice in areas of business and public life, together with an international respect of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by the perspective, and their views carry significant weight in the Company.
In addition, all Directors have access to the Company Boards decisions.
They also meet as a group without executive Secretary, who also acts as General Counsel, for advice.
com BOARD PROCESSES Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the external One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that auditors,  LLP PwC invited to Board members receive sufficient and timely information attend as appropriate.
On two occasions during the year the regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to Committee met the external auditors without any executive discharge their duties and to enable them to make further Directors present.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access enquiries where necessary.
The Board regularly reviews the to the Committee Chairman and met with him on one occasion quality and quantity of this information and recommends during the year.
adjustments as necessary or advisable.
From time to time, The Committees duties include the review and approval, the Board also receives detailed presentations from non-Board where required, of the draft results prior to publication, the members on the operating divisions, new opportunities for the effectiveness and reliability of the Groups system of internal Group and other matters of significance.
The Board meets at control, the internal audit function, any changes to financial least eight times a year aiming to hold two meetings each year reporting requirements and matters arising from the annual in the US, one of which is combined with a two day conference Group audit.
involving an in-depth review of Group strategy as well as meetings with senior management.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the Groups auditors is of paramount importance to shareholders and has The Board also reviews periodically whether the number of established a policy for monitoring and approving the level of regularly scheduled meetings is appropriate for the anticipated non-audit fees e. g. accounting, tax or other financial consultancy needs of the business.
related work paid to the Group auditors in order to identify and minimise any potential conflicts of interest.
If PwC is to be TRAINING considered for the provision of non-audit services such as tax The Chairman is also charged with ensuring that all new Board advice and compliance, due diligence work in relation to members are equipped to fulfil their duties and responsibilities.
acquisitions the scope and fees must be approved in advance by As part of the early familiarisation programme, new nonthe Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee Secretary executive Directors are encouraged to meet the executive and, in the case of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single project, Directors individually and engage in an induction programme by the Audit Committee Chairman.
This may involve a competitive of visits to different businesses within the Group where they tender process unless there are compelling commercial or have an opportunity to meet senior management.
All Directors timescale reasons to use PwC.
A report on non-audit services is receive training about their duties, significant changes in the reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee at each of its 31 law and the sectors in which the Company operates.
The policy prohibits using PwC in projects which represent a real threat to the independence of BOARD EVALUATION the audit team such as where the external auditor would be in a During the year the Directors conducted an evaluation of the position where it is auditing its own work e. g. financial systems performance of the Board, of its three principal Committees implementations or where there is evident self-interest, for Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, of individual Directors example where an interest in the outcome of their work might and of the Chairman.
Each Director completed, on a nonconflict with the auditors objectivity.
The results were analysed by the Company Secretary and initial feedback was The non-audit fees paid to PwC amounted to 0.9m, or 46.1% provided to the Chairman and the senior independent Director.
The Audit Committee believes that the quality The Board was supplied with the overall average scores.
These of the audit process was not adversely affected by PwCs nonresults formed one of the bases for further discussion by the audit work for the Group.
Board collectively, and by the non-executive Directors in respect In July 2004 the Committee reviewed and recommended a of the evaluation of the Committees and the performance of the policy on whistleblowing which was subsequently adopted Chairman.
The senior independent Director and the Chairman by the Board.
made themselves available on request to discuss with each individual Director his scores.
During the year the Committees work has included: Among the actions arising were clarification of the role of the reviewing the Groups draft 2004 financial statements and Nomination Committee and a change to the format and content 2004 interim results and related announcements prior to of reports to the Board.
Board approval, together with PwCs reports thereon: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting BOARD COMMITTEES policies: Responsibilities at Board level are divided among six standing Board Committees, which operate within formally defined reviewing the risks associated with the Groups businesses: written terms of reference which are available on request and reviewing periodic reports on the internal audit function: from the Companys website.
These are complemented by an active internal audit function.
Further details on internal control reviewing and approving PwCs terms of engagement, fees are provided in the section below.
Details of membership of the and non-audit fees: and Board Committees are set out on pages 26 to 27. reviewing PwCs strategy for the audit of the 2005 financial The Audit Committee was chaired by Ian Dyson who took statements.
over from Tony Alexander in October 2004.
Its other members The Nomination Committee, chaired by George Farr, consists are Tony Alexander, Sir Dominic Cadbury, George Farr and Dr of all the non-executive Directors and meets as necessary, Jrgen Zech.
The Committee met three times during 2004 05 liaising closely with the Chairman.
It met three times during 2003 04: three times, with the Finance Director, Group Misys plc Corporate governance report continued 2004 05 three during 2003 04.
It assesses the suitability of The Treasury Committee was established by the Board to persons for appointment as Directors and, when appropriate, review the function and operation of the Groups centralised nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
The treasury, whose primary role is to manage the foreign exchange, Committee plays an important role in succession planning for interest rates, liquidity and credit risks arising from the operation the Board and key senior executives and performs regular of the business.
The Committee is governed by written terms assessments of the requirements of the Board as a whole.
of reference and during the year met on a regular basis, reporting its decisions to the next meeting of the Board.
Its Under its terms of reference, the Committee oversees the search membership comprises the Chairman, the Finance Director, the and selection process for new Directors and aims to do so in Corporate Development Director, the Group Treasurer and Ian compliance with the recommendations under the Code.
As such, Dyson as the non-executive Director member.
The minimum the Committee seeks to make appointments on merit and against attendance required is two Directors, one of whom must be objective criteria.
the Chairman or the Finance Director.
Arising from the Board evaluation process conducted during the The General Purposes Committee transacts routine business year, the Committee is clarifying its role in the recruitment of of the Board.
The Committee operates within clearly defined new Board members.
During the year, the Committee oversaw written terms of reference and financial limits.
It meets regularly the recruitment of a new non-executive Director, Al-Noor Ramji, and reports to the Board on its decisions on a regular basis.
and initiated the search for a successor to Ian Dyson, in both All the Directors, together with the Company Secretary, are cases using a search firm after having drawn up the criteria to members of the Committee, with a minimum of two Directors be satisfied by the successful candidate.
The Committee has also required to attend.
begun to consider the issue of the succession to the role of the Chief Executive Officer in the light of the proposal, subject to The Group Operating Board comprised the executive Board approval at the relevant time, to divide the role of Directors, together with the Chief Technology Officer, the executive Chairman within the next two to three years.
Group Human Resources Director and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
During the year under review, the Group The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sir Dominic Operating Board met twice under the chairmanship of Kevin Cadbury, consists of all the non-executive Directors and meets Lomax and discussed a number of matters including the Peak when necessary, but at least twice a year.
It met six times during Performance programme, business forecasting and risk the year eight times during 2003 04.
During the year, the Chief Technology Officer invited to attend the Committees meetings as the members retired and the Group Human Resources Director left the 32 consider appropriate.
Details of the Committees main functions, Company.
The remit of the Group Operating Board is currently and its remuneration policies for the Companys Directors and under review.
In its revised format it will not be regarded as a senior executives, are provided in the Remuneration report on Committee of the Board and as a result it will not feature in pages 34 to 43. the Annual Report.
The attendance record of each Director during the year is set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Board Committee Committee Committee Operating Board Number of meetings held during the year 8 3 3 6 2 A G L Alexander 8 3 3 6 Sir Dominic Cadbury 8 2 3 6 I Dyson 8 3 3 6 G L Farr 6 3 2 4 R A Ingram 4 1 1 3 A Ramji appointed 1 February 2005 2 n a 1 2 Dr J Zech 7 2 3 5 J K Lomax 8 2 H Evans 8 2 I Martin 8 2 J P McMahon 8 2 T K Skelton 8 2 The General Purposes Committee and Treasury Committee hold a large number of ad hoc meetings attended by the Directors and accordingly are not included in the above table.
All the Directors attended the 2004 AGM.
com RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL MONITORING AND REPORTING The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining a Detailed financial budgets are prepared annually by the business purposeful relationship with its investors.
The Chairman and all units and culminate in a projection of anticipated profits, cash executive Directors hold briefing meetings with financial analysts flow and potential investments for the Group.
The Board and institutional shareholders, including presentations following formally approves the Group budget.
In addition to the budgets, the interim and final results announcements, and their views are forecasts covering the next twelve months trading are prepared communicated to the Board.
Actual performance, as reported internally in monthly financial statements and key performance In addition, business and market briefings are held periodically indicators, is then compared with the control budget and latest to ensure that the analysts and investing community receive a forecasts on a monthly basis.
There is a high emphasis placed on broader view of the Groups operations and the issues faced by cash generation with cash flows and balances monitored at the business.
business, divisional and Group level by a system of weekly and The non-executive Directors, and in particular the senior monthly cash reports.
Treasury and taxation policies are independent Director, are available to meet with shareholders reviewed at least annually and are themselves subject to regular on request.
The Board, including the non-executive Directors, reporting to the Board.
has access to the services of Makinson Cowell, which provides independent advice concerning the relationship between the AUTHORITY LEVELS Company and its institutional investors.
In addition to providing Defined levels of authority at Group, divisional and business unit regular written reports to the Board, in May 2005 Makinson level are established for the approval of major development Cowell gave a presentation to the Board on shareholder projects, contractual and other commitments of a revenue nature perceptions of the Company following interviews with a and capital expenditure.
Authority levels are reviewed regularly cross-section of large UK institutions.
and approved by the Group or divisional Board as appropriate.
The principal communications with private investors are through INVESTMENT APPRAISAL the Companys website www.
com, the annual report and Potential capital investment or acquisition opportunities are financial statements, the interim report and the AGM.
All the reviewed rigorously against the Groups standards for investment Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders return, growth potential and normal terms and conditions with the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board.
The Company responds as necessary to enquiries from individual 33 shareholders on a wide range of issues.
SYSTEM OF OPERATING UNIT CONTROL PROCEDURES The financial and other information, including presentations Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by to analysts and investors in audio and text formats, is made regular Board and management meetings, which are attended available on the Companys website.
Further details are by Misys executive and divisional Directors.
Financial controls contained in the Investor information section on page 77. and procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is circulated to all business units, regularly updated, and AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE published on the Groups intranet.
Written confirmation of The Company has reviewed its relationships with its auditors, compliance with internal financial control policies is obtained  LLP, and concluded that there are from the finance directors and general managers of the sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required operating units.
In addition, compliance with the Groups level of independence.
policies and procedures is monitored by means of regular visits to operating units by the Groups financial management.
INTERNAL CONTROL In line with best practice identified in the Turnbull guidance, the INTERNAL AUDIT following section summarises the Groups system of internal control The internal audit function, through a structured review process, which compromises a number of distinct individual processes and assesses at operating unit level, the key financial controls and procedures which, when taken together, provide a reasonable, but compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
The not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
central Group functions, including Group Treasury, are also reviewed as part of internal audits work plan.
The Audit RISK MANAGEMENT Committee regularly reviews the work plan and key findings A comprehensive risk management process has been developed of the internal audit process.
that identifies, evaluates and manages the key business, The process and systems described above have been in place operational, financial and compliance risks that are considered during the financial year ended 31 May 2005 and up to the date to be important both from an overall Group and individual of the approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The process involves each division regularly The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility reviewing the most important risks to which the business is for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its exposed and the control processes in place that manage and or effectiveness and confirm that they have reviewed its mitigate the potential exposure to those risks.
The business risks and controls are then evaluated and approved by the Group Operating Board which determines which risks, On behalf of the Board in their opinion, are the most significant to the Group overall.
Senior executives are given responsibility to deal with any items requiring action and to report regularly on progress.
The risks, Dan Fitz identified controls and progress against any actions are then General Counsel and Company Secretary reported to the Audit Committee.
