Directors report Browns, Cambridge A renowned brasserie close to the university colleges The Directors present their report for the 53 week period ended Environmental and social responsibility 1 October 2005.
Mitchells & Butlers recognises that it is part of a wider community and recognises that it has a responsibility to act in a way that Principal activities respects the social, economic and environmental well-being of that The Group is the leading operator of managed pubs and pub community.
A summary of the Companys approach to these issues restaurants, with an estate of 1,973 sites as at 1 October 2005, is set out on pages 7 to 10 of the OFR.
principally located in the UK, but with 42 outlets in Germany.
Share capital Business review and future developments During the year, in view of the strong trading performance and The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the resulting cash generation of the business, the Company completed Operating and Financial Review the OFR on pages 2 to 10 a share buy-back programme, repurchasing approximately 100m and the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the of the Companys shares.
This buy-back was intended to maintain Finance Directors Report and the business reviews in the Annual an efficient balance sheet through the effective deployment of cash Review and Summary Financial Statement, which together include in the best interests of shareholders.
The effect of the buy-back information about the Groups business, the financial performance on the share capital of the Company was: during the year and likely developments.
1 Ordinary shares of 7 12p Dividends In issue at 26.09.04 523,792,544 The Board recommends a final dividend for the year ended Bought and cancelled 24,236,000 1 October 2005 of 7.55p per share to be paid on 6 February 2006 Issued in year 881,496 to shareholders on the register at close of business on In issue at 01.10.05 500,438,040 9 December 2005.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 10.75p per share 2004 9.5p per share.
The percentage of the called up share capital represented by the repurchased shares was 4.8%.
Directors Details of the Directors who served on the Board during the year Of the issued capital, 2,107,898 shares were held in Treasury and are shown on page 14. the Companys employee share trusts held 2,139,879 shares at the year end.
Employees The Group employed an average of 37,411 people in 2005 American depositary receipts ADRs 2004 37,207.
Details of the Groups employment policies In April 2005, the Company gave notice that it wished to terminate its are shown on page 9 of the OFR.
ADR programme and to delist its securities from the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The ADR programme closed on 19 July 2005.
Health and safety Delisting duly took place on 5 August.
ADR holdings outstanding It is important to the Group to provide and maintain a safe at 19 September were cancelled and holders became entitled to environment for all employees, customers and other visitors to its the cash value of the ordinary shares underlying their ADRs.
It complies with relevant health and safety legislation.
Details are included in the OFR on pages 8 and 9.
The above steps were taken because ADRs represented a very small proportion of the Companys equity and ADR trading volume Page 11 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Directors report continued was very low.
The number of ADRs in issue had reduced from with a related award of shares by the Company, which is required 44m at the time of demerger from Six Continents to 6m at the to be deferred for a three year period.
time the notice of termination of the programme was given.
As the Company does not conduct any business in the US, it was decided 80,046 shares were released from this scheme during the year.
that the benets of maintaining the ADR programme and the NYSE The Executive Directors accrued entitlements for the year are listing did not justify the additional costs of administration.
Notwithstanding the delisting, the Companys registration under the Headroom limits US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act remains During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom in effect and it will continue to comply with its obligations, including limits for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the the ling of Annual Reports on Form 20-F.
However, in view of rules of the plans.
At 1 October 2005, the position under both the the increasing costs of maintaining a US registration resulting from 5% in 10 years limit for discretionary plans and the 10% in 10 the implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for non-US years limit for all share plans was that shares equivalent to 1.9% companies and in view of the fact that the presence of US of the ordinary share capital had been allocated.
shareholders was largely a legacy of the demerger, the Company is examining ways in which it may terminate its Exchange Act registration Policy on payment of suppliers in due course.
Under the relevant provisions of the Exchange Act, The Company is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
the Company may deregister if its shares are beneficially held by The policy of its principal operating subsidiaries is to agree fewer than 300 persons resident in the US.
Following deregistration, particular terms with major suppliers and abide by those terms, and subject to the fullment of certain conditions, the Company will subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Amounts owed no longer be obliged to comply with the reporting requirements of to other suppliers are settled in or before the end of the month the Exchange Act.
Accordingly, a Special Resolution to amend the following that in which the subsidiaries receive a valid invoice.
Companys Articles of Association to permit the compulsory transfer of certain US beneficial holders interests will be put to the 2006 AGM.
Charitable donations The Company continues to support community initiatives and Substantial shareholders charitable causes, full details of which are given on page 9 of As at 29 November 2005, the Company had been notied of the the OFR.
following beneficial interests 3% or more in its shares: Political donations AXA S. A.
13.29% Legal & General 3.48% The Company made no political donations during the year and Aviva plc 4.11% Lone Pine Capital LLC 3.18% intends to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, Standard Life 4.00% Barclays 3.00% however, as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at its 2006 AGM to make Employee share plans limited donations or incur limited political expenditure, although Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage employee participation it has no intention of using the authority.
in the Groups success through share ownership and operates the following plans: Going concern The financial statements which appear on pages 30 to 60 Sharesave plan have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making In June 2005, options were granted to 1,382 employees over appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 1,162,897 shares at 258.5p per share, a 20% discount to the that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational market price.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Share incentive plan Annual general meeting During the year, 309,993 shares were allocated by the Share The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at Incentive Plan Trustee as free shares to 7,917 eligible employees 11am on Thursday, 2 February 2006 is contained in a circular sent subject to the plan rules.
to shareholders with this report.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to renew the authority to issue shares without applying Executive share option plan statutory pre-emption rights, to authorise the Company to make In May 2005, options were granted to 64 employees over a total market purchases of its own shares, to make changes to its share of 3,395,758 shares at 326.1p per share.
A further grant over plans and to make certain changes to the Companys Articles 83,207 shares was made to one employee in June 2005 at 330.5p of Association including a provision for the compulsory transfer per share.
Options under this plan are only exercisable if a of certain share interests held by US beneficial holders.
performance condition is met and, for options granted in 2005, the condition is set out on page 21.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in Performance restricted share plan ofce as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will be In 2005, 22 employees were granted nominal cost options which put to shareholders at the AGM.
will vest subject to the achievement of performance conditions as set out on page 20.
No shares vested under this plan during the year.
By order of the Board Short term deferred incentive plan Bronagh Kennedy This plan enables the Company to award Executive Directors all Company Secretary or part of their annual performance bonus in shares, together 29 November 2005 Page 12 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Corporate governance Harkers, York former Yorkshire Bank in St. Helens Square Combined Code compliance In addition, the Audit Committee receives: The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code Reports from the Director of Group Assurance on the work which was published in July 2003 took effect for the Company carried out under the annual internal audit plan: and from 26 September 2004.
The Board is committed to compliance Reports from the external auditors.
with the principles of corporate governance as set out in the Code and considers that the Company has complied throughout the year Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has ended 1 October 2005 with all the provisions of the Code and it conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal remains compliant.
control during the year ended 1 October 2005.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board confirms that assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any delegated authority.
These procedures have been in place since change to this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
the Group was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
In line with good corporate governance and to comply with the Business performance is managed closely and in particular, Groups US obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group the Board and the Executive Committee have established has developed a process to review the effectiveness of internal processes, as part of the normal good management of the financial control based on the framework published by the business, to monitor: Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission the COSO framework.
In accordance with the revised timetable for Strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance, this process will be used to evaluate of strategic reviews: internal financial controls during 2005 06.
Financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework: A statement outlining the differences between the corporate Capital investment and asset management performance with governance practice followed by the Company and that detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: followed by US companies is shown on the Companys website, and www.
Risk management, through an ongoing process, which accords with the Turnbull guidance and provides assurance through With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure reports from the Director of Group Assurance that the significant against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and cost and opportunity.
magnitude of the risks involved.
The Company additionally maintains Directors and ofcers liability insurance cover.
Page 13 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
