Corporate governance continued Board and committee structure Directors biographical details are set out on pages 28 and 29 of To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 and and committee structure operates as set out below: these include their main commitments outside the Company.
The Board Tim Clarke, George Fairweather and Tony Hughes will retire by The Board consists of the part-time Non-Executive Chairman, rotation and offer themselves for reappointment at the 2006 AGM.
four Executive and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on page 19.
The Chairman and the four independent Non-Executive There are nine regular Board meetings planned for 2006, with Directors have letters of appointment.
The Chairman, Roger Carrs, further ad hoc meetings as required to consider matters which term of appointment is expressed to run for three years from the are time critical.
There were nine meetings during 2004 05. demerger of the Company from Six Continents, which occurred George Fairweather, Drummond Hall and Sara Weller were each on 15 April 2003.
He has agreed to continue as Chairman of the unable to attend one meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
Company beyond April 2006, subject to reappointment by Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, he or she shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
was provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and was able to discuss issues arising with the Chairman Chairman and Chief Executive.
Roger Carr is Chairman of the Board and has responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction, are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
He also ensures development and control of the Group.
It therefore approves strategic that appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
plans and capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant Roger chairs a FTSE 100 company and is deputy chairman of investment proposals and the performance of past investments another.
The Board specically considered his contribution as part and maintains an overview and control of the Groups operating of the Board effectiveness review referred to on page 15 and and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system confirmed that his drive, energy and commitment to the business, of internal controls, governance and compliance.
The Board along with his ability to manage his time effectively, enables him ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are to commit sufficient time to the Companys affairs.
in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a schedule of matters which are reserved for its Chief Executive attention which are published on the Companys website.
Tim Clarke is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing The Board has adopted objective criteria for the appointment of the Group.
He has authority to approve capital expenditure Directors and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive projects up to a level authorised by the Board.
have been dened in writing.
Senior Independent Director The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good Sara Weller is the Senior Independent Director.
Her responsibilities information ows to the Board and its committees and between include being available to liaise with shareholders who have issues senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
She meets annually with the independent Non-Executive Secretary is responsible through the Chairman for advising the Board Directors, without the Chairman present, to review the performance on all corporate governance matters and for assisting the Directors of the Chairman, having taken account of the views of the with their professional development, as well as facilitating the Executive Directors.
This includes regular corporate governance, legal and business issues updates, as well as the use of site visits Non-Executive Directors and the provision of external courses where required.
The Company has experienced independent Non-Executive Directors who represent a strong source of advice and judgement.
In The following were Directors of the Company during the year: addition to the Chairman, who was independent on his appointment, there are four Non-Executive Directors, who the Board considers Appointed to be wholly independent.
Other than their fees which are disclosed Roger Carr Chairman 10.02.03 on page 23, the independent Non-Executive Directors received no Tim Clarke Chief Executive 10.02.03 remuneration from the Company.
When Non-Executive Directors are Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars 15.04.03 considered for appointment, the Nomination Committee will take into George Fairweather Independent Non-Executive account their other responsibilities in assessing whether they can Director 15.04.03 commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
Tony Hughes Managing Director, Restaurants 15.04.03 Karim Naffah Finance Director 15.04.03 All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers in Sara Weller Independent Non-Executive advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the meetings.
Director 15.04.03 Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive business presentations and operational visits to the Companys Director 16.05.03 businesses.
Separate strategy meetings and ad hoc meetings Drummond Hall Independent Non-Executive with senior executives are attended.
Director 30.07.04 Committees The Committees of the Board each have written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
Page 14 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Audit Committee and exposure to senior executives.
Feedback was provided to The Audit Committee, which is chaired by George Fairweather, the Board through a written report and presentation, which was consists of the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend at the invitation of the Committees Chairman.
This report concluded that the Board was evolving well as a team with greater focus on operational issues and specic strategic Further details about the Committee are included in the Audit matters.
The appointment of Drummond Hall was viewed as Committee Report on page 16. a positive addition to the Boards mix of skills and experience.
The Board will continue to critically review process, effectiveness Remuneration Committee and strategic development in the year ahead.
The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Sara Weller, comprises the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman evaluated the individual performances of the The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive attend Non-Executive Directors and he met with the Non-Executive by invitation of the Committees Chairman, but not on matters Directors without the Executive Directors present during the year.
relating to their own remuneration.
He confirmed that all the Non-Executive Directors continued to make an enthusiastic and important contribution to the successful Further details about the Committee are included in the development of the Company.
Re-election of Directors Nomination Committee The Company ensures that Directors submit themselves The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, who chairs for re-election at least every three years.
The proposals for the Committee, the four independent Non-Executive Directors reappointments at the 2006 AGM are set out on page 2 and the Chief Executive.
It is responsible for nominating, for the of the AGM Notice.
approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and also for succession planning.
It met twice during the year to Independent advice consider succession planning.
Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the General Purposes Committee advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior Third party indemnities officer from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
The Company has provided to all of its Directors limited It is always chaired by a Director.
It attends to business of a indemnities in respect of costs of defending claims against them routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles and third party liabilities.
These are all qualifying third party of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 appropriate committee.
and are all currently in force.
Executive Committee Shareholder relations The Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, consists The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its major of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives as institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, shown on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Review and Summary on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the Financial Statement 2005. business.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director report to the Board the views of major shareholders about The Committee meets every four weeks and has everyday the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and other responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It develops Non-Executive Directors are available to major shareholders on the Groups strategy and revenue and capital budgets for Board request.
Institutional investors and analysts are also invited to approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant briefings by the Company after the announcement of its interim investment proposals.
The content of these briefings is posted on the Companys website, together with general information about the The Committee monitors the financial, operational and customer Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
service performance of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers employment The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, issues, ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of talent many of whom are also customers.
The Chairmen of the and develops senior management manpower planning and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend succession plans.
Board evaluation The Board engaged external consultants, Spencer Stuart, to assist with a Board effectiveness review during the year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provided a brief for the assessment of the Board and its committees, which was effected through individual meetings or discussions with the Company Secretary and each Director.
Topics covered included succession planning, changes to Board practices, Directors development, interaction with Board committees, Board processes Page 15 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
