Corporate Governance review of the operation and effectiveness of Operational performance: the internal control framework: Health and Safety: review of significant risks affecting the group: Finance: review of compliance with corporate goverIT: finance guidance: Human Resources: definition of formal lines of responsibility, Insurance: delegation of authorities and authorisation Property: limits: and Public Relations and Marketing: review and approval of succession plans for Risk Management and Internal Audit: and the Board.
Strategic Projects and Corporate Development.
Further details of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board are available from the Company Its current members include the Executive Secretary on request.
Directors of MITIE Group PLC.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive.
At least a week before each Board meeting, each Director is supplied with an agenda and Audit Committee sufficient supporting papers that provide the The Audit Committee comprises all four Nonappropriate information required for the Directors Executive Directors and is chaired by Cullum to properly discharge their duties.
The Board has satisfied itself that at these papers is a summary of the Groups overall least one of the Committee members has recent performance as well as detailed results for each and relevant financial experience.
Other papers include a treasury report detailing the cash position across the Report of the Audit Committee Group and proposals regarding future potential The Committee met three times during the year to acquisitions, disposals, start-ups or restructurings.
examine and consider matters relating to the The monthly financial results and analyses are affairs of the Group.
These matters included: circulated in months where no Board meeting is held.
Minutes of all Committee meetings are review and examination of the Groups Interim circulated to Committee members and other Report and Annual Report and Accounts: Directors as appropriate.
review and consideration of critical accounting policies, significant judgements, and changes in The Board regularly reviews the quality, nature accounting policy where applicable : and presentation of information provided and review and approval of the Internal Audit plan requests changes where the Directors feel such for the year ending 31 March 2006: changes will offer more appropriate information receipt of the external Auditors audit plan to enable them to discharge their duties.
and year-end summary memorandum: review of the effectiveness of the external All Directors have access to the advice and services Auditors: of the Company Secretary who is responsible for consideration of the going concern assumption: ensuring that Board procedures and applicable presentations from senior management rules and regulations are observed, including regarding matters identified during the Groups advising on all governance matters.
The Company internal audit and risk management activities: Secretarial Department provides secretarial consideration of corporate governance matservices to all Board Committees.
If necessary the ters arising under the Combined Code: and Directors are able to seek independent profesconsideration of the methodology and results sional advice at the Groups expense.
of the Internal Audit and Risk Management Department.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets on a regular The Committee is also responsible for considering basis and met formally eight times during the year.
the fees, nature and scope of work and indeIn addition to these meetings the Committee pendence and objectivity of the Groups external members are in regular communication and met Auditors as well as their appointment, reappointon a number of other occasions.
ment and removal as necessary.
In respect of auditor independence and objectivity, the exterThe Committee is responsible for the overall dayfinal Auditors and Group have regular dialogue to-day management of the Group.
Specifically, concerning such matters and a report is made to the Committee receives reports which include the the Audit Committee at least once a year.
This following areas: dialogue allows and assists the Committee to MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 31 consider the independence of the Auditors and Boards behalf the specific remuneration packthe related safeguards and procedures in Deloitte ages for each of the Executive Directors.
sought from independent external remuneration consultants as and when considered necessary.
On occasion, the external Auditors provide nonaudit services to the Group.
Independence matThe Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 to ters are given careful consideration prior to such 29 includes details of the remuneration policy and appointments, while additional controls are in of the remuneration of the Directors.
place within Deloitte & Touche LLP regarding the segregation and nature of the services provided.
Nomination Committee An analysis of the fees paid to the Auditors is given The Nomination Committee comprises three indein Note 2. pendent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director A further requirement of the Code is for the Audit Sir John Jennings.
The Committee is responsible for Committee to review the Groups procedures for monitoring the balance and composition of the employees to communicate concerns, in confiBoard to ensure that it contains the necessary dence, about possible improprieties in matters skills, knowledge and experience to properly of financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee also makes Committee should also ensure that there are recommendations to the Board on new Board arrangements in place for the proportionate and appointments, after considering the job specifindependent investigation of such matters and for ication and the candidates specific skills, experiappropriate follow-up action.
The Committee has ence and other commitments and any adjustcarried out its review and is aware that during the ments to the Boards balance and composition year there were only various informal processes considered necessary.
During the year succession and communication channels throughout the planning was reviewed at Board level.
Group to address such matters with the Internal Audit function being well positioned to investigate The Committee usually meets at least once a year significant matters of impropriety should they with additional meetings taking place as and arise.
Since the year-end more formalised Whistlewhen requested by any Committee member.
The blowing procedures have been implemented.
Committee met once during the year under review.
To help the Committee assess the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit and risk manageThe terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration ment activities, reports are submitted to each and Nomination Committees are available on the Committee meeting to update its members on Groups website www.
the activities of the Internal Audit and Risk Management Department.
Detailed presentaMeeting attendance tions to the Committee are also made, on All Directors are encouraged to attend all meetrequest, by this department covering various ings of all the Committees of which they are memaspects of the system of internal control.
bers and it is recognised by the Board that they make every effort to do so, rarely missing The Groups external Auditors normally attend the a meeting.
Directors actual attendance at regular Audit Committee meetings on invitation and, at Board and Committee meetings is shown in the the request of the Committee, the Group Finance following table: Director, other senior executives and Manager of Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination the Internal Audit and Risk Management No.
meetings Department will also attend.
The Committee held in year 7 3 4 1 has access to the external Auditors advice, and that of other independent professional advisors, D C Ord 7 3 4 1 without the presence of the Executive Directors I R Stewart 7 if necessary.
C S Acheson 6 N R Goodman 7 Remuneration Committee C S Hale 7 The Remuneration Committee comprises all four independent Non-Executive Directors under the R McGregor-Smith 7 chairmanship of Manish J Chande.
The Committee W Robson 6 usually meets at least twice a year and met four M J Chande 5 3 4 1 times during the year under review.
The Committee Sir J Jennings 7 3 3 1 makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups framework of senior management and C McAlpine 7 3 4 executive remuneration and determines on the 32 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance continued Director appointment, rotation and appraisal continue to be reviewed and assessed with a Each new Director receives papers that include a view to formalising the process further over the copy of MITIE Group PLCs Memorandum and forthcoming year.
Articles of Association, Committee terms of reference, and copies of recent Board minutes and Those Directors due for re-election at the next supporting papers.
New Directors are formally Annual General Meeting are shown in the introduced to the Board as a whole and invited to Directors Report on page 24. visit any number of sites and operations to help familiarise themselves with the Groups business.
Shareholder communications The Group is committed to maintaining an ongoAny Director, on appointment and throughout ing relationship with institutional and private their service, is entitled to receive any training they Shareholders and welcomes such dialogue.
The consider necessary to enable them to fulfil their Group recognises that Shareholders must receive responsibilities effectively and to update their skills high-quality, relevant and useful information in a and knowledge.
This is at the Groups expense.
To facilitate this, formal presentations are made to institutional investors and anaAll Directors are appointed by the Board as a lysts twice a year after the release of the Interim whole on the recommendation of the Nomination Report and Annual Report and Accounts.
All new Directors are subject to Meetings are also held with Shareholders on re-election by the Shareholders at the first Annual request and usually satisfied by the Chief General Meeting after their appointment.
All Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Directors have also been reappointed within a Chairman has also met with a number of the three year period, although currently the Articles of Groups larger Shareholders during the year to disAssociation only require one third of the Board to cuss matters of Group strategy, performance and be re-elected each year.
Any significant matters arising in these fore proposing to recommend to Shareholders at meetings are fed back to the Board as necessary the forthcoming Annual General Meeting amendby the Chief Executive and or the Chairman.
ments which will require all Directors to be re-elected at least every three years.
Other Directors, including the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, attend the Groups None of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors Annual General Meeting and are available to has a service contract with a notice period greater Shareholders at other times throughout the year if than twelve months.
The Executive Directors servShareholders request additional meetings.
The ice contracts and Non-Executive Directors fixedSenior Independent Non-Executive Director is also term agreements are available for inspection at available if Shareholders have concerns that they the Companys Registered Office, the Head believe are not being addressed by the Executive Office, and at the Annual General Meeting.
Executive Director performance is assessed Principal channels of communication with against agreed targets as a part of the investors continue to be through news announceRemuneration Committee review process, while ments, the publication of the Interim Report and meetings between individual Executive Directors Annual Report and Accounts, and the Groups and the Chief Executive also take place, the website www.
Both institutional and results of which are discussed with the Chairman.
private Shareholders are welcomed at the The performance of the Non-Executive Directors Annual General Meeting.
has been carried out through various informal processes, including discussion between the Internal control Chairman and Chief Executive, while the NonThe Directors are responsible for the Groups sysExecutive Directors were responsible for considertems of internal control, including financial, operaing the performance of the Chairman.
During the tional and compliance controls, and risk manageyear the Chairman and Nomination Committee ment systems.
The Directors are also responsible for also approved and enhanced an annual Board regularly reviewing the operation and effectiveand Committee evaluation process to assess the ness of these systems which have been designed performance of the Board and its Committees for to meet the Groups particular needs and aim to the year ended 31 March 2005.
A series of tailored safeguard Group assets, ensure that proper questionnaires is therefore being developed to accounting records are maintained and that the facilitate this.
The results of this process will be financial information used within the business and reviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive for publication is reliable.
Any such systems of interand discussed with the Board.
The processes curfinal control are designed to manage rather than rently used to monitor the performance of the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Board, its Committees and individual members will objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, the MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 33 systems of internal control can only provide reaan annual Statement of Internal Control which sonable, and not absolute, assurance against requires that Board to consider formally its own material mis-statement and loss.
systems of internal control with specific reference to areas of judgement, compliance with regulaThe Board confirms that there is a continuing tory and Group requirements, the accuracy of its process for identifying, evaluating, and managing financial information and risks to its operations.
significant risks faced by the Group, which is in line with the current Turnbull guidance.
The Board also Risk management confirms that this process has been in place for Each operating business regularly reviews its risk the year under review and up to the date of profile using a common strategic risk framework.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These frameworks include warning mechanisms and any further action necessary to reduce the A review of the operation and effectiveness of the risks.
On a regular basis the operating companies internal control framework has also been underrefine each framework in light of the changing taken, this being an annual process.
Key elements aspects of their businesses, the consolidated of the process used by the Board to review the results being included in the Group Risk Register effectiveness of the systems of internal control which is monitored by the MITIE Group PLC Board.
include reviews of significant issues arising from internal and external audits, a review of the signifiThe Internal Audit and Risk Management cant risks reported in the Group risk register, and Department also undertakes an annual review discussions with senior management.
The review programme which considers both the internal process adopted by the Board also includes concontrol environment, key areas of risk to the Group sideration of the following key features of the sysand risk management systems.
The departments tems of internal control.
recommendations and conclusions are forwarded to the relevant level of management, the MITIE Group culture and management Executive Committee and the Audit Committee framework for their consideration.
Where deemed approThe MITIE Group PLC Board emphasises a culture priate, the Audit Committee will invite relevant of integrity, competence, fairness and  to the Audit Committee meetings ity through its statements and actions.
The Board to address the issues identified during the reviews.
sets the framework within which this culture flows down through the organisation to the operating The activities and methodology of this departbusinesses and individual trading businesses who ment currently follow the Turnbull guidance.
These operate their own systems of internal control.
processes are however being reviewed to ensure that they remain in line with best practice.
Due In addition to this framework, the Group Head regard will also be given to the pending revision of Office offers specialist resource support.
The team the Turnbull guidance.
of specialists providing this support has been enhanced during the year to help develop and In addition to these features of the current system strengthen the Groups overall risk management of internal control, the Board continues to take activities, while ensuring that mitigation strategies steps to embed internal control and risk manageand actions are timely and effective.
ment processes further into the operations of the Group and to deal with areas of improvement Information systems that come to the Boards and managements There is a system of reporting key performance attention.
and risk related information to the Board, including a review of the operating result against budget Compliance with the Combined Code and of the consolidated Group risk register.
Key The Board confirms that throughout the year operational performance indicators are also conended 31 March 2005, the Group has complied tinuously monitored by the Executive Directors with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the and senior management as described in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Executive Committee section of this statement.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, with the exception that at least half the Individual company controls Board has not consisted of Independent NonEach operating company has authority to manExecutive Directors during the year.
age their business within delegated levels of authority.
Group procedures and controls are supplemented by business operating standards to ensure that specific business factors are dealt with in these companies effectively.
The Board of each operating company is also required to complete 34 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of MITIE Group PLC We have audited the financial statements of MITIE the Financial Services Authority and we report if it Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2005 does not.
We are not required to consider whether which comprise the Group Profit and Loss the Boards statements on internal control cover all Account, the Balance Sheets, the Group Cash risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effecFlow Statement, the Note of Historical Cost Profits tiveness of the Groups corporate governance and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movements in procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Shareholders Funds and the related Notes 1 to 28 together with the Statement of Accounting We read the Directors Report and the other inforPolicies.
These financial statements have been mation contained in the Annual Report for the prepared under the accounting policies set out above year as described in the contents section therein.
We have also audited the information in including the unaudited part of the Directors the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report and consider the implicathat is described as having been audited.
tions for our Report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistenThis Report is made solely to the Companys memcies with the financial statements.
bers, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Basis of audit opinion undertaken so that we might state to the We conducted our audit in accordance with Companys members those matters we are United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the required to state to them in an Auditors Report and Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examfor no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted ination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the amounts and disclosures in the financial to anyone other than the Company and the statements and that part of the Directors Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Remuneration Report described as having been for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Respective responsibilities of Directors the Directors in the preparation of the financial and Auditors statements and of whether the accounting poliAs described in the Statement of Directors cies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Responsibilities, the Companys Directors are Company and the Group, consistently applied responsible for the preparation of the financial and adequately disclosed.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are We planned and performed our audit so as to also responsible for the preparation of the other obtain all the information and explanations which information contained in the Annual Report we considered necessary in order to provide us including the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurresponsibility is to audit the financial statements ance that the financial statements and the part of and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Directors Remuneration Report described described as having been audited in accordance as having been audited are free from material with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other requirements and auditing standards.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentaWe report to you our opinion as to whether the tion of information in the financial statements and financial statements give a true and fair view and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report whether the financial statements and part of the described as having been audited.
Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared Opinion in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We In our opinion: also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Remuneration Report is not consistent with the The financial statements give a true and fair financial statements, if the Company has not kept view of the state of affairs of the Company and proper accounting records, if we have not the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the profreceived all the information and explanations we it of the Group for the year then ended: and require for our audit, or if information specified The financial statements and that part of the by law regarding Directors remuneration and Directors Remuneration Report described as transactions with the Company and other memaudited have been properly prepared in bers of the Group is not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Deloitte & Touche LLP Statement reflects the Companys compliance Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors with the nine provisions of the FRC 2003 Combined Bristol, United Kingdom Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of 20 May 2005 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 35
