qxd 6 1 05 8:00 PM Page 45 Report on corporate governance The Board supports high standards in corporate governance.
The application during the financial year of the Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for three years.
The non-executive Directors letters of principles in Section 1 of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code is appointment set out their expected time commitment and key elements of the role.
Their appointment is described in the appropriate sections of this statement and in the report on directors remuneration on subject to one months notice from either the Company or the Director.
Towards the end of the three-year pages 51 to 64. period, the Board will consider whether to continue the appointment for a further three-year period.
Where appropriate, the three-year period commences from the time the non-executive Director first became a The Directors consider that the Company has fully complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Director of mmO2 plc.
Combined Code, except in the following respects.
David Arculus was also Chairman of Severn Trent Plc at the time of his appointment on 28 July 2004.
Mr Arculus confirmed before his appointment that he would At the time of a Directors appointment to the Board, an internal induction programme is provided on the relinquish his chairmanship of Severn Trent Plc by 31 December 2004 and has done so.
The service contract Groups strategic and business plans and developments to date.
The content of this induction programme in respect of Rudolf Grger is now terminable on 12 months notice.
However, in the event of termination and, where appropriate, any additional training which may be required by the Director is kept under review.
of Mr Grgers employment within 12 months of a change of control of O2 or its German business, the Directors are also advised of their legal and other obligations as a Director of a listed company.
employer is obliged to make a cash payment equal to two times his base salary and a payment equal to the bonus expected for an on-target performance.
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-election every three years.
The Board The Directors biographies appear on page 41.
The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be The Board currently comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer, one further assessed and managed.
It sets out the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its executive Director, and six non-executive Directors, which is considered to be an effective size and balance shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors are independent under the criteria set out in the Combined Code.
In determining that position, the Board in particular had regard The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year together with an annual off-site conference to Rudolf Lamprechts membership of the Management Committee of Siemens, which has a business to review and discuss corporate strategy.
Main Board meetings are also held periodically at the premises of relationship with the O2 Group.
The level of that business relationship is not considered material in the the operating countries of the Group.
Additional meetings are held as necessary.
During the financial year overall O2 Group context and therefore would not affect or interfere with or compromise his independent ended 31 March 2005, the Board had eight scheduled Board meetings.
judgement as a Director of the Company.
The Board also considered that David Arculus was independent at the date of the announcement of his appointment as Chairman in 2004.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it for decision, including the approval of strategic plans and the annual operating plan, significant investments and capital projects, and treasury and The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer has been set out in risk management policies.
All Directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
writing and agreed by the Board.
Guidelines are in place concerning the content, presentation and timely delivery of papers by management During the year, Stephen Hodge replaced Andrew Sukawaty as Deputy Chairman and senior independent to Directors for each Board meeting, so that the Directors have enough information to be properly briefed.
The Deputy Chairman is recognised as the senior independent Director to whom concerns can be Where issues arise at Board meetings, the Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed and, conveyed independently of the Chairman, Chief Executive officer or Chief Financial officer by other where necessary, appropriate further enquiries are made.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, under the direction of The differing roles of executive Directors and non-executive Directors are clearly delineated, with both having the Chairman, is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, maintaining duciary duties towards shareholders.
compliance with all applicable rules and regulations, and advising the Board on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
There is an agreed procedure for enabling the Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, should they consider this to be necessary.
qxd 6 1 05 8:00 PM Page 46 Report on corporate governance continued Whilst not actively involved in the day-to-day management of the Company, the non-executive Directors play commitments to the Executive Committee and designated managers in accordance with a schedule of an important role in bringing their independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to delegated authorities.
the Boards deliberations with their advice being reected in management meetings.
They have regular contact with senior managers in the businesses.
Attendance The attendance of Directors at programmed Board and principal Board Committee meetings held during the During the financial year, the Chairman met regularly with non-executive Directors without the executive year is detailed in the table below: Directors present, and the non-executive Directors also met without the Chairman present under the Nomination and leadership of the senior independent Director.
The Deputy Chairman carried out a review of the Chairmans Governance Remuneration performance.
Director Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended D Arculus 8 8 2 2 4 3 n a n a During the financial year, the Board conducted an internal review of its performance and that of its principal D Chance 8 8 4 4 4 3 n a n a Board Committees and individual Directors.
Each Director completed a comprehensive questionnaire and P Erskine 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a there were one-to-one interviews between the Chairman and each Director.
Directors were asked to D Finch 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a comment on matters such as the culture and approach of the Board, the effective setting of strategy based R Grger 8 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a on information about the business and how the market operates, the quality and timeliness of information S Hodge 8 8 4 4 2 2 8 7 provided, the composition of the Board, the role of the senior independent Director, Board meeting N Kroes 4 3 2 2 n a n a 3 2 processes, the form of continuing professional development, and communication of Board decisions and R Lamprecht n a n a n a n a n a n a discussions.
The results of this review were considered in one-to-one discussions with the Chairman and P Lupo 5 4 n a n a n a n a 5 5 collectively at a Board meeting.
The Directors concluded that the Board and its Committees operated D McGlade 8 8 n a n a n a n a n a n a effectively and that, as individuals, the Directors were each contributing to the overall effectiveness of I Meakins 8 6 4 2 n a n a 7 5 the Board.
P Myners 4 3 n a n a 2 2 3 2 K ODonovan n a n a n a n a There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and fund managers, and A Sukawaty 8 7 n a n a 4 4 8 8 summaries of these discussions and meetings are provided to the Board.
These summaries and reports D Varney 3 3 n a n a 1 1 n a n a enable the Directors to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the Company.
During the period a director was in ofce or a member of a committee The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be The Board also met as required in relation to the Scheme of Arrangement of mmO2 plc.
Arrangements were brought against its Directors.
The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 made for any Directors who were unable to attend meetings to discuss the agenda items with the relevant came into force on 6 April 2005.
This Act amends the Companies Act 1985 by permitting the grant of Chairman of that meeting in advance.
Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions QTPIP by a company to its directors.
Such indemnities extend, amongst other things, to the payment of a Directors defence costs in an action brought by the Company or Board Committees by a third party, subject to the repayment of such costs in certain circumstances.
The Board believes that it is The Board has delegated authority to the Committees described below on specic matters.
All of the in the best interests of the Company to attract and retain the services of the most able Directors by offering Committees have formal terms of reference.
Minutes of meetings are formally recorded.
competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the latest statutory provisions.
Accordingly, on 13 May 2005, the Board approved the granting of indemnities in the The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, and Remuneration Committees are form permitted by the QTPIP to all Directors.
Further details of the indemnities will be included in the posted on the Companys website and are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and General Directors report in the Companys 2006 Annual Report.
Counsel who acts as Secretary to these Committees.
The Board reviews the membership of the Committees on an annual basis at the start of each financial year or more frequently as circumstances require.
The Board has adopted appropriate governance policies dealing with the conduct of Board affairs and has delegated responsibility for monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole, allocation of resources within agreed plans, implementation of policies and decisions relating to specic value-related o2.
qxd 6 1 05 8:00 PM Page 47 Chairmans Committee The Company Secretary and General Counsel is secretary to the Committee and minutes of meetings Chairman: David Arculus are circulated to all Board members.
Regular attendees at Committee meetings, at the invitation of the The Chairmans Committee advises and assists the Chairman in the preparation for Board meetings.
Committee, include the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer, the Head of Internal Audit The Committee also acts on behalf of the Board between scheduled Board meetings, in exceptional and representatives of the external auditors.
The Committee has authority to seek any information that it circumstances, where it is not possible or practicable to convene a meeting of the Board.
In addition to the requires from any employee, authority to obtain independent professional advice and access to sufficient Chairman, Peter Erskine and David Finch are members of the Committee.
David Arculus became a member resources generally to carry out its activities.
and Chairman of the Committee on 28 July 2004 when David Varney retired from the Board.
The Committee undertook a review of its work and its terms of reference during the year and reported back Audit Committee to the Board.
Chairman: Stephen Hodge The Committee comprises Stephen Hodge, David Chance, and Kathleen ODonovan appointed 30 March The Committee met four times during the financial year.
Following each meeting, the Committee members 2005.
During the year, Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins were members of the Committee until their met with the external auditors in private.
The Committee members have also met privately with the Head resignations from the Board on 31 August 2004 and 30 March 2005 respectively.
In addition, David of Internal Audit.
Arculus was a member of the Committee until 28 July 2004 when he became Chairman of the Company.
Since that time, he has attended meetings of the Committee in his capacity as Chairman at the invitation The Committee worked to a structured programme of activities, with agenda matters focused to coincide of the Committee.
with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting.
The Committee reviewed the following matters and reported its The Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements: reviews the Companys conclusions to the Board: internal control system and risk management systems: monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the the financial disclosures contained in the Companys annual and interim reports to shareholders and Companys internal audit function: makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment other interested parties: of the external auditors and recommends the audit fee and terms of engagement to the Board following various accounting matters, including the Companys accounting policies, raised by management and appointment by the shareholders in general meeting: monitors and reviews the external auditors the external auditor in the context of the financial disclosures: independence, objectivity and effectiveness: considers managements response to any major external or the Groups risk management process, including monitoring and progress on the management of key internal audit recommendations: approves the appointment or dismissal of the Head of Internal Audit: risks identied by the Company and within the Groups operating businesses: reviews the Companys procedure for responding to calls made to its condential helpline facility: and the effectiveness of internal controls and measures to detect and prevent fraud: considers other topics, such as the Companys policies for preventing or detecting fraud and its code the annual external audit plan for the Groups auditors.
This review included the audit objectives, of corporate conduct business ethics.
auditor independence and objectivity policies, partner rotation, audit scope, team composition, timetable, deliverables and fee proposal: Further details of the Committee and a report of its work during the financial year are set out below.
the amount and purpose of non-audit fees.
The Board has a formal policy governing the independence of the Companys external auditors and dening those non-audit services that may be provided to the Audit Committee Report Group, including those which require the prior approval of the Committee.
Details of non-audit services The composition of the Committee is as described above.
Further details of the members of the Committee are reviewed at each meeting of the Committee.
Further details of the statutory audit and non-audit and their relevant financial experience are set out in the biographies of the Directors on page 41. services fees are set out in note 27 to the financial statements.
The policy also covers employment of former auditor employees by the Company and audit partner rotation: Stephen Hodge, as Chairman of the Committee, is considered by the Board to be the audit committee the external auditors year-end report and the findings of their work and conrmation that all financial expert and the member of the Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
Prior significant matters had been satisfactorily resolved: to becoming Deputy Chairman, he received an additional fee of 5,000 for acting as Chairman of the the performance of the external auditor, which resulted in the Committee recommending the Committee, which is included in the Directors remuneration table contained in the report on directors appointment of  LLP as auditors to the Company: and remuneration on page 58. the internal audit plan and resources for the internal audit function.
This review included detailed reports from the Head of Internal Audit on progress on matters identied in the plan, current resources of the internal audit function and updates on matters requested by the Committee.
qxd 6 1 05 8:00 PM Page 48 Report on corporate governance continued The Committee noted, during its review of non-audit services by the external auditors, that the level of During the financial year, the Committee met four times.
It recommended to the Board those Directors non-audit service fees for this financial year was higher than that for the last financial year due to the who should retire by rotation and seek re-election at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and considered Companys external auditors involvement in the Scheme of Arrangement and related matters.
the leadership needs and succession plans of the Group as a whole.
It has a sub-committee comprising all the non-executive Directors to review the performance evaluation processes and succession plans for all The Committee received briengs from the Chief Financial officer on the implications for financial reporting Directors.
The process relating to the selection of the new Chairman in 2004 was conducted by an ad-hoc of International Financial Reporting Standards, which will apply to the Company in respect of the financial committee of independent Directors headed by the Deputy Chairman and advised by an independent year 2005 06. executive search agency.
The Committee reviewed the policy for the handling of complaints received by the Company regarding Remuneration Committee accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and for the condential, anonymous submission Chairman: Patrick Lupo by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting, auditing, employment, ethical or other matters.
The Committee comprises Patrick Lupo, Stephen Hodge and Andrew Sukawaty.
During the year, Paul Myners, Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins were members of the Committee until they ceased to be Directors on The Committee also reviewed, for recommendation to the Board, the Companys compliance programme to 10 August 2004, 31 August 2004 and 30 March 2005 respectively.
Patrick Lupo joined the Committee on ensure the Group complies with its Business Principles and relevant regulatory and legal obligations.
10 August 2004 and assumed the chairmanship of the Committee from Andrew Sukawaty on 11 November 2004.
The Committee is responsible for determining the framework and broad policy for the remuneration The Committee received regular updates from the Company Secretary and General Counsel on corporate of the Chairman, all executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, and members of governance issues in the UK and US, principally those arising from the Combined Code and the US the Executive Committee, and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
It also received regular reports from a project team responsible for the packages for each of these, including any pension rights, any compensation payments and the establishment of a control framework consistent with the requirements of Section 404 of the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
The Committee operates on the principle that members Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
of the executive management should be provided with appropriate incentives to encourage superior performance and should, in a fair and responsible manner, be rewarded for their individual contributions The Committee also received minutes of all meetings of the Disclosure Committee.
Details of the remit of to the success of the Group.
The report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 51 to 64. this Committee are provided in the internal control section of this report.
The Executive Committee, chaired by Peter Erskine, and comprising the other executive Directors and his Nomination and Governance Committee senior executive team, is responsible for the executive day-to-day running of the Company, the preparation Chairman: David Arculus and maintenance of strategic plans for the Group, and monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group The Committee comprises David Arculus, David Chance, Stephen Hodge and Andrew Sukawaty.
the year, David Varney and Paul Myners were members of the Committee until they ceased to be Directors on 28 July 2004 and 10 August 2004 respectively.
Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Committee on US corporate governance compliance 11 November 2004 and David Arculus replaced David Varney as Chairman of the Committee on 28 July The Company is required to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented 2004.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for by the Securities and Exchange Commission as applicable to foreign issuers during the period it remains recommending candidates for Board membership for the approval of the Board.
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the appointment of new Directors, the Committee reviews the current balance of skills on the Board.
It Dialogue with shareholders draws up a specication to include any specic knowledge or expertise it considers of future benefit to the The Company is committed to on-going development of open and effective communications with Board having regard to the business throughout the Group and the overall strategy.
The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer regularly meet with institutional are used during the recruitment process.
The agents put forward a shortlist of candidates for the Committee shareholders and analysts and the Companys Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to to review before submitting its recommendation to the Board.
Whilst the Chairman of the Board chairs this communicate with private investors and encourage their participation.
All substantial issues, including the Committee, he is not permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of his successor is being reviewed.
adoption of the annual report and financial statements, are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on separate resolutions.
All of the resolutions proposed at the 2004 Annual General Meeting were conducted The Committee ensures that the performance of the Chairman, senior independent Director and other Directors is regularly reviewed.
qxd 6 1 05 8:00 PM Page 49 by way of a poll in accordance with best practice.
The poll results were notied to the UK Listing Authority Risk management and published on the Companys website following verication by the Companys share registrar.
All the The Group has a detailed on-going risk management process for identifying, evaluating and managing resolutions to be proposed at the 2005 Annual General Meeting will also be proposed by way of a poll.
It is the significant risks faced by the Company and embedding a risk awareness and management culture intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Governance, and Remuneration Committees will throughout the Group.
be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the Groups strategic planning cycle and The Companys website provides financial and other business information about the Group.
It contains an this includes the consideration of major business risks by senior management.
archive of past announcements and annual reports, share price information and a calendar of events as well as information on O2s approach to corporate responsibility and the Companys Business Principles.
The risk management process comprises the following key elements: Group operating companies and key functions in the business carry out risk assessments, to determine Going concern the nature and extent of risks facing the Company: The Directors have reviewed the Groups liquid resources and borrowing facilities, and the Groups budget the Executive Committee undertakes a formal Group-wide risk review every six months, which is and cash ow forecast for the year to 31 March 2006, and outline projections for the subsequent year.
Risk management is a formal item at each Executive Committee meeting: On the basis of this review, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue registers are produced which detail significant risks and indicate likelihood, impact, and the level of in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors adopt the going-concern controls, together with mitigating actions: basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
the proles of the significant risks from the registers are summarised and tracked using a consolidated risk map: Internal control senior management is accountable and responsible for managing risks within the Group, supported by Responsibility dedicated risk managers.
These risk managers assist in embedding risk management within the business The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and culture via risk forums, team meetings, training sessions and the Companys intranet: for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of the Internal Audit function also promotes effective risk management in the business operations: and failure to achieve business objectives: any system can provide only reasonable assurance against material a fast track process exists for identifying and responding to evolving risks and significant changes to mis-statement or loss, not absolute assurance.
existing risks so that they are reported to an appropriate level of management and corrective action is taken.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures in the Group during the financial year.
Review of effectiveness At the half and full year, the Chief Executive officer requests a formal conrmation of the review and Control environment assessment of internal controls and other aspects of corporate governance in the form of a Corporate The Board sets policies on Internal Control and Risk Management that are implemented by management.
Governance Certicate from the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of each Operating These policies are in accordance with The Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance section Business, together with each of the members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary of the Combined Code.
Following an extensive internal consultation and external benchmarking exercise, the Group Risk A report is then provided to the Audit Committee which includes: Management policy has been reviewed, updated and authorised by the Board during the year.
the Group risk registers, risk maps and dashboards: the Group Corporate Governance Certicates signed by the Chief Executive officer and Chief Risk Management, Internal Control compliance and Internal Audit are the responsibility of separate functions Financial officer.
within the Company but operate holistically to deliver an effective internal control system.
In order to perform its review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control across the Group, the Audit Committee uses this information together with: any significant failings that may have been identied during the internal control reporting process: o2.
qxd 6 1 05 8:00 PM Page 50 Report on corporate governance continued the regular assessments of the quality of the Internal Control and Risk Management process carried out These high-level principles are supported by a Condential Help facility comprising telephone, post and by the Group Head of Internal Audit as part of a cyclical risk-based audit approach: and e-mail, which is available to employees who want to report incidents and for those who have questions the external auditors reports.
regarding the application of the principles.
The Audit Committee then reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Companys Condential Help policy has been externally benchmarked and updated during the year.
Joint ventures In the case of joint ventures and associated undertakings, where the Group does not have operating Compliance programme responsibility, our policy is to inuence and encourage adoption of our own standards of Internal Control It is O2s policy to be fully compliant with its Business Principles and local legal and regulatory requirements.
and Risk Management and to offer practical advice wherever appropriate.
The Board has approved a detailed compliance policy which describes the compliance programme.
Disclosure The Company has a Disclosure Committee which considers the materiality of information and the respective Online and direct training is available to ensure that all employees are aware of our Business Principles and disclosure obligations in releases made to regulatory bodies.
This Committee assists the Chief Executive know how they should be applied.
officer and Chief Financial officer to evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the Group is made known to them by others.
Executive Committee members are required to confirm compliance with our Business Principles as part of the Corporate Governance Certication process.
Annual assessment The Board has reviewed the nature, extent and changes to the significant risks to the business.
The Groups Corporate responsibility current key risks are summarised in risk factors on pages 39 and 40.
The Board takes account of significant social, environmental and ethical issues that affect the Group.
This includes risks and opportunities that relate to our people, our supply chain, our customers, the environment On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed regularly the effectiveness of the system of and society around us.
internal controls and reported its findings to the Board.
The management of these issues is covered in the corporate responsibility section of this report, on pages The Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have concluded, after evaluating the effectiveness 19 to 21, which contains information in accordance with the Disclosure Guidelines on Social Responsibility, of the Groups internal and disclosure controls within the past 90 days, that O2s internal and disclosure issued by the Association of British Insurers.
controls and procedures are effective in ensuring that material information relating to the Company is made known to them by others within the Group.
The procedures provide reasonable assurance that problems are We are also producing a separate externally-veried Corporate Responsibility report, which will be identied on a timely basis and dealt with accordingly.
available in July 2005, or on the Companys website www.
com cr report05 or on request from the Company Secretary.
There were no significant changes to the Companys internal controls or to other factors that could signicantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of the most recent evaluation.
These processes have been in place for the whole of the financial year and have continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
Business principles To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in our standards of business ethics and corporate governance, O2 has a set of Business Principles covering the whole Group, including its Directors and senior financial ofcers, which have been endorsed by the Chairman.
There have been no waivers or changes to these Business Principles during the year.
The Company also continues to require its business partners and suppliers to apply these principles when dealing with O2.
A copy is available on the Companys website.
