Corporate governance statement Governance framework The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate governance and is committed to managing the Groups affairs in accordance with the principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the Code.
A summary of how the Company has applied the principles of the Code is set out below.
The Board has considered the provisions of the Code and considers that it was substantially in compliance throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, save in respect of provision D. 1.1 which requires the senior independent director to attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
Whilst the senior independent director, as well as the other non-executive directors, has been available to meet with shareholders if they so request, no such meetings took place during the year.
Given the amount of feedback from shareholders to the Board, as further described below, the directors are satisfied that the absence of such meetings has not affected the ability of the senior independent director to understand shareholder issues and concerns.
Directors The Board currently comprises an executive chairman, three further executive directors and four non-executive directors.
All of the non-executive directors, with the exception of Jack Lovell, are considered by the Board and under the Code to be independent.
Jack Lovell is a former executive director of the Company and a significant shareholder.
The senior independent director is Bernard Asher.
The Board has a separate chairman and chief executive in line with the Code provision A.
John Morgan as executive chairman takes responsibility for leading the Board and ensuring that it functions effectively and for the overall strategy of the Group whilst Paul Smith as chief executive is responsible for managing the businesses and critically assessing Group strategy.
The Board has set out and agreed a schedule that details their individual roles and responsibilities.
The Board considers that the balance of relevant experience amongst the various Board members enables the Board to exercise effective leadership and control of the Group.
It also ensures that the decision making process cannot be dominated by any individual or small group of individuals.
Although the Company entered the FTSE 350 during 2005, it continued to qualify as a smaller company as defined by the Code during the year under review.
As such, it fell within the exemption for smaller companies from the requirement in provision A.
3.2 that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
It is recognised, however, that the Company is currently not in compliance with this provision.
The nominations committee has considered the size and balance of the Board and recommended to the Board that the existing structure was satisfactory and that increasing the Board would not benefit the Group.
The Board does not, therefore, have any current intention to recruit a further independent non-executive director although the matter will be kept under review.
The articles of association of the Company require all directors to submit for election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting after his or her appointment and to re-election thereafter at least every three years.
Paul Smith and Jack Lovell are retiring by rotation and will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Board effectiveness Nine scheduled meetings of the Board were held during the year.
The key purposes of the scheduled meetings were to review all significant aspects of the Groups activities, supervise the executive management and to make decisions in relation to those matters that are specifically reserved to the Board.
There is a formal schedule of these matters, which includes the approval of the Groups strategic plans, annual budget, significant capital expenditure and investment proposals, major projects, acquisitions and disposals, internal control arrangements and annual and interim results.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board committees described below and under Group delegated authorities.
In addition, ad hoc meetings are convened for specific purposes.
A formal agenda for each meeting is agreed with the chairman and is circulated well in advance of the meeting to allow time for proper consideration, together with relevant papers including key strategic, operational and financial information.
35 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance statement Attendance of individual directors during 2005 at scheduled Board meetings and at meetings of the remuneration, audit and nominations committees is set out below.
Remuneration Audit Nominations Name of director Board committee committee committee Total no.
of meetings 98 3 1 John Morgan 9 1 Paul Smith 9 David Mulligan 8 1 John Bishop 3 Paul Whitmore 7 Bernard Asher 8 8 3 1 Gill Barr 8 8 3 1 Jack Lovell 9 Jon Walden 9 8 3 1 1 three board meetings were held prior to John Bishops retirement.
Professional development and board evaluation The Company provides training facilities for directors on first appointment and subsequently as necessary.
The executive directors have been participating in the two year modular development programme being run for senior executives and referred to in the directors report above and also received ad hoc personal coaching during the year.
In addition, the Board receives regular presentations and briefings from the managing directors of the Groups divisions and the non-executive directors knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations is developed through site visits.
There are agreed procedures by which directors are able to take independent professional advice, at the expense of the Company, on matters relating to their duties.
In addition, the directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
An evaluation of the Board, including its committees, was carried out during the year.
This took the form of a questionnaire that was developed internally and required each director to rate his or her agreement or disagreement with a number of statements focussing on the effectiveness of the Board and of scheduled Board meetings.
This year, the questionnaire also asked for comments in relation to each statement.
The results of the Board evaluation were reviewed at a subsequent meeting and a number of actions were agreed.
Evaluation of individual directors took the form of feedback from the other directors, which was followed by one to one meetings between the chairman and each director and, in the case of the chairmans evaluation, between himself and the senior independent director.
The requirement of Jack Lovell to retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting was considered as part of his evaluation.
Jack Lovell is not considered to be an independent non-executive director, having previously been an executive director and co-founder of the Company.
He does, however, have a wealth of experience and knowledge of the Group and its businesses and, following his evaluation, the Board has confirmed that he continues to be an effective member of the Board and continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Relations with shareholders The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with institutional shareholders whenever possible and also encourages all shareholders to use the annual general meetings as an opportunity for effective communication with the Company.
The executive directors undertake a programme of communication with institutional shareholders at regular intervals which is coordinated by the Companys brokers.
The executive directors meet with analysts covering the construction industry arranged through the Companys financial public relations consultants.
Written feedback from all these meetings is distributed to all members of the Board.
The non-executive directors are available to meet with the Companys major shareholders.
Details of proxy votes submitted for this years annual general meeting will be announced at the meeting after a vote on a show of hands.
They will also be available on the Companys website on the day before the meeting.
36 Corporate governance statement Board committees The Board has established three committees, namely remuneration, nominations and audit.
Details of the remuneration committee and reports of the nominations and audit committees are set out below.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee comprised Gill Barr chair, Bernard Asher and Jon Walden.
The remuneration committees terms of reference are available for review on request and on the Companys website under the investor relations section.
Eight meetings were held in the year to cover all elements of the directors remuneration.
A report to shareholders on directors remuneration is shown on pages 28 to 34.
Nominations committee The members of the nominations committee during 2005 were John Morgan chair, Bernard Asher, Jon Walden and Gill Barr.
The terms of reference for the committee establish a framework through which it can review the balance and effectiveness of the Board to ensure suitable candidates are identified and recommended for appointment to the Board and the various Board committees.
These terms of reference are available for review on request and on the Companys website.
As referred to above, the nominations committee met once during the year to review the structure, size and composition of the Board, particularly in the light of the Companys entry into the FTSE 350.
The committees recommendation to the Board was that the current structure, including the balance of executive and non-executive directors, was satisfactory.
Audit committee The members of the audit committee during 2005 were Bernard Asher chair, Gill Barr and Jon Walden.
All committee members are independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details of each member of the committee, including financial experience where relevant, are set out on page 18.
The Board is satisfied that the committee has the appropriate level of experience to fulfil its terms of reference.
These terms of reference were updated this year and are available for review on request and on the Companys website.
The committee met three times during the year, prior to the announcement of the Companys preliminary results for 2004 and approval of the annual report, prior to the announcement of its interim statement and before commencement of the audit for 2005.
The external auditors attended each of these meetings.
The main purpose of the meetings was to review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness and to monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including reviewing progress on the Groups implementation of IFRS.
In addition the committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal audit activities and the Groups head of audit and assurance attended each of the meetings to present reports of the internal audit activity during the year and the internal audit plan for 2006.
The committee also considered the Groups arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
The audit committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors and monitoring the objectivity and independence of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have confirmed to the committee that they have policies and safeguards in place to ensure that they are independent within the meaning of all regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
In particular, they have rotated key audit principals to the extent required by the ICAEWs Additional Guidance on Independence for Auditors.
During the year, a new policy was adopted to enable the committee to monitor the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services.
This provides that any proposals to engage the external auditors for services, where the fees for such services would exceed either an absolute limit or a specified proportion of the audit fee, should be referred to the committee for approval.
The fees for nonaudit services carried out by Deloitte & Touche LLP during the year are set out in note 2 to the accounts on page 48.
In aggregate these represented approximately 14% of the audit fee.
The committee has reviewed the nature of the work and level of fees for non-audit services provided by the external auditors and concluded that this has not affected their objectivity or the independence of the audit.
37 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance statement Internal control statement All procedures necessary to implement Internal Control: Guidance for directors on the Combined Code have continued to be in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
These procedures have been regularly reviewed and this report therefore follows an approach of full compliance throughout the year with Code Principle C. 2.
The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for ongoing review of its effectiveness.
The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve certain business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management The Board has reserved to itself specific responsibility for the formulation of the risk management strategy of the Group.
A formal process is in place through which the Group identifies the significant risks attached to its strategic objectives, confirms the control strategy for each risk and identifies the appropriate early warning mechanisms.
A risk management policy document has been adopted by the Board setting out the Boards role and responsibilities and its overall approach to management and acceptance of risk.
Internal control and risk management systems are embedded in the operations of the businesses.
Financial information The Board recognises that an essential part of the responsibility for running a business is the effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition of liabilities and the accurate reporting of profits.
The Group has a comprehensive system flowing through each division for monthly reporting to the Board.
Investment and capital expenditure appraisal There are clear policies, detailed procedures and defined levels of authority in relation to investment, capital expenditure, significant cost commitments and asset disposals.
Computer systems The Group has established controls and procedures over the security of data held on computer systems.
Controls over central functions A number of the Groups key functions including treasury, risk management and insurance are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions have detailed procedures manuals.
Audit and assurance The Groups head of audit and assurance reports to the chief executive and the audit committee and is responsible for managing the audit and assurance function and assists with risk management practices.
The internal audit and assurance programme was wider in scope and reach than in previous years and included reviews of the operations of key business and financial controls across the Group, including those operated centrally, as well as a rolling programme of peer group reviews.
Peer group reviews assist in the professional development of the individual staff concerned while at the same time providing a mechanism for the cross fertilisation of ideas and best practice throughout the Group.
Annual review The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2005 and for the period to the date of this report.
The process included a formal review conducted by the Board of the Group risk report, which comprised a consolidated report of each of the divisional risk reviews and which is re-appraised and updated annually.
In addition the Board also received regular internal control reports from the Group head of audit and assurance referred to above.
