N Brown Group plc 21 Report and Accounts 2005 Directors report Pension fund The group continues to ensure that the N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed in accordance with best practice and current legislation, including the Pensions Act 1995.
The funds assets are administered by a trustee company which is controlled by a board of directors, all of whom have a vested interest in the performance of the fund, representing the interests of pension fund members, pensioners and N Brown Group plc.
The funds investments are managed by Deutsche Asset Management Limited and Legal and General Assurance Pensions Management Limited and the actuarial and administration services are provided by William M Mercer Limited.
The last actuarial valuation of the fund was completed in 2003 and its results are disclosed in note 33 on page 53.
The N Brown Group Pension Fund was closed to new entrants with effect from 31 January 2002.
New employees joining the group after 31 January 2002 and existing employees who had not joined the N Brown Group Pension Fund as at that date, are entitled to join a stakeholder pension scheme providing a defined contribution pension arrangement, administered by Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
Tax status The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 21 July 2005.
By order of the board Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor Secretary 10 May 2005 Statement of directors responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
N Brown Group plc 22 Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance statement Combined Code The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and compliance with the principles in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Services Authority in July 2003 the Code.
This report sets out how the board has complied with the Code and gives an explanation regarding those principles under the Code with which the company has not yet complied.
Board composition The board currently comprises eight members of whom six are non executive.
There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, who is responsible for the effective operation of the board and the Chief Executive, Alan White, who is responsible for the groups operational performance.
The six non executive directors comprise the Chairman, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, the Deputy Chairman, Jim Martin, Nigel Alliance OBE, all of whom are not regarded by the board as being independent under the provisions of the Combined Code, and Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath, and John McGuire all of whom are considered by the board to be independent.
The senior independent non executive director is Ivan Fallon.
Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board in October 1994.
Notwithstanding that his length of service exceeds a period that beyond which the Code suggests that his independence may be affected, the board, nonetheless, regards Ivan Fallon to be independent and that his broad-based commercial experience, coupled with his extensive business specific knowledge gained during his ten years as a non executive director and his general commercial accumen, are extremely beneficial to the board.
The board did not have a majority of independent non executive directors during the year.
There are equal numbers of independent and non-independent directors.
Not withstanding this, it is considered that the composition of the board during the year had the necessary balance of skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
All directors joining the board are required to submit themselves for election at the next following annual general meeting.
They are subject to re-election every third year thereafter.
All non executive directors have written letters of appointment.
These letters of appointment stipulate three-year renewable terms of office, and are subject to early termination provisions, for example allowing earlier termination without compensation in the event a director is not re-elected upon retirement by rotation in accordance with the articles.
In line with the Code all non executive directors who have served for nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
As such, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Board operation An effective board of directors leads and controls the group.
The members of the board are shown on page 16 of this report.
The board met eight times during the year.
Directors attendance at board meetings was as follows: Attendance Apologies Attendance Apologies Attendance Apologies Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 7 1 Jim Martin 8 0 Ivan Fallon 7 1 Alan White 8 0 Lord Stone of Blackheath 8 0 Nigel Alliance 7 1 Dean Moore 8 0 John McGuire 6 2 The board is collectively responsible for providing leadership and promoting the success of the group.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval which includes decisions on all major strategy decisions, approval of financial statements, capital and operating expenditure and board membership and committees.
Currently, at least one of its meetings in each year is entirely devoted to the development and review of corporate strategy.
The board delegates the day-to-day management of the group to the J D Williams & Company Limited operational board.
Detailed briefing papers including management accounts, broker analyses and shareholder analyses are circulated to each director not less than seven days prior to each board meeting.
Procedures are in place to enable all directors to obtain independent professional advice in respect of their fiduciary duties and obligations and all board members have full and direct access to the company secretary.
The board does not currently undertake a formal appraisal of its own performance and that of its committees but is arranging to put in place and conduct a formal process in the coming year.
The board reviews its effectiveness by informal self-assessment.
Committee structure The board has delegated specific authorities to a number of sub committees to deal with specific aspects of management and control of the group.
All of these committees meet regularly and have formal written terms of reference which are available for inspection on request.
The minutes of the meetings of these committees are circulated to all board directors.
The following committees of the board have been established: Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee The audit and remuneration committees consist wholly of independent non executive directors.
N Brown Group plc 23 Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance statement Audit committee The audit committee consists entirely of independent non executive directors.
The current chairman is John McGuire who was appointed on 23 March 2004.
The other members are Ivan Fallon and Lord Stone of Blackheath.
All members of the audit committee are regarded as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee met three times in the year.
Committee attendance was as follows: Attendance Apologies Lord Stone of Blackheath 3 0 John McGuire 3 0 Ivan Fallon 2 1 The audit committee considers the nature and scope of the audit process both internal and external and its effectiveness.
The committee reviews and approves the internal audit programme, meets with the external auditors and considers the annual and interim financial statements before submission to the board.
The committee also reviews the system of internal control and reports its findings twice yearly to the board.
The committee holds an away day each year, which is a meeting to which certain executives and senior employees of the group are invited, but otherwise the meeting is not attended by executive directors, the chairman or the deputy chairman.
The committee meets with the external auditors, in the absence of the executive directors, at least two times a year.
As stated above, part of the role of the audit committee is to review the independence of the companys auditors.
The companys external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP have provided non-audit services to the company in the form of tax advice and due diligence work.
The audit committee is aware that providing audit and non-audit advice could give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
To address this concern raised by the audit committee, the remuneration committee seeks advice on executive remuneration issues, where appropriate, from independent advisors who do not provide the group with other services further details are set out in the remuneration report on page 25.
The audit commitee has concluded that the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, are independent.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee consists entirely of independent non executive directors.
The current chairman is Ivan Fallon.
The other members are Lord Stone of Blackheath and John McGuire.
The remuneration committee met three times this year.
Members attendance was as follows: Attendance Apologies Lord Stone of Blackheath 3 0 John McGuire 2 1 Ivan Fallon 2 1 The purpose of this committee is to review and formulate the companys remuneration policy and consider how the company is applying the principles of the Code in respect of directors remuneration.
Further details are set out in the remuneration report on pages 25 to 32 which will be put to an advisory vote by the members at the companys annual general meeting.
Nominations committee The nominations committee is chaired by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other members are Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, Jim Martin, Ivan Fallon and John McGuire.
The formal terms of reference for this committee require it to make recommendations to the board for appointments of directors and other senior executive staff.
Where appropriate, the chief executive and company secretary attend meetings of the nominations committee.
Appointments to the board are made on merit, against objective critera, taking into account the skills and experience required.
Where appropriate, external search consultants are enlisted.
The company secretary is responsible for the induction of new directors.
New directors are provided with a comprehensive pack of information including terms of reference, information regarding the business and guidance on their roles as directors and meetings site visits with key contacts are arranged as appropriate.
The nominations committee had no occasion to meet this year.
Internal control The directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of internal control, to give them reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
There are, of course, inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance.
N Brown Group plc 24 Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance statement The board continues to operate a formal risk management process throughout the group.
A cyclical programme of assessments of operational, financial and other business risks has been implemented at each principal operating subsidiary of the group each cycle comprising at least two reviews annually, which takes into account the internal controls that exist to mitigate the impact of those risks.
Any significant residual risks are then evaluated and action plans to further reduce their impact are initiated and monitored where necessary.
Eleven such cycles have so far been carried out.
A risk management committee, which met three times last year, oversees the above process, reports progress to the audit committee and the committee thereafter report to the board and draws any appropriate matters to its attention.
This committee, together with the audit committee, is also responsible for ensuring that the principles of risk management and effective internal control are fully embedded within the organisation, a process which has continued to operate during the year.
The board of directors through the audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year under review.
As well as receiving regular reports from the risk management committee described above, the board through the audit committee discusses with the external auditors the results of their work and any resulting internal control issues, and also reviews the work carried out by the internal audit department, including monitoring the implementation of actions arising from previous audits.
The internal audit function is independent of management and the head of the function has direct access to the chief executive and the chairman of the audit committee.
Internal audit plans are discussed and agreed annually between the head of internal audit and the audit committee.
Appropriate internal financial controls are operated throughout the group, some of which have already been referred to in this statement.
Other examples include the existence of a well defined group organisation structure, with clear lines of responsibility and explicit authority delegated to divisional boards and executive management, and a comprehensive financial reporting system which communicates plans, budgets and monthly results to relevant levels of management, including the board.
Relations with investors The company believes in the importance of good communications with shareholders, both institutional and individual investors.
Institutional investors, fund managers and analysts are kept informed of the companys overall strategy through regular meetings and roadshows.
All non executive directors are kept informed of shareholders views through detailed feedback and an analysis report tabled at each board meetings.
The senior independent director is available to meet with, and understand, the views of major shareholders.
We aim to ensure that all shareholders have full access to information we disclose and that they have opportunities to meet with management through ad hoc and one-to-one meetings at least twice a year at the announcement of results and also at events such as the AGM.
As well as being provided with a copy of our Annual Report and results announcements, our comprehensive website provides shareholders with extensive information about the group.
Compliance with the Code The Group has complied with the provisions of the code of best practice set out in the Code throughout the financial year, with the following exceptions: Code Provision A.
6.1 No formal appraisal of the Chairmans performance was undertaken during the year.
The board continuously reviews its effectiveness by means of informal self-assessment.
3.2 The majority of non executive directors should be independent of management.
There are currently equal numbers of independent and non-independent directors.
This composition is considered to currently give the best balance of skill and judgement for the Board but the company will continue to explore means to address full code compliance either through the appointment of new independent non executive directors or by changes to the composition of the board.
6.1 No formal performance evaluation of the Board, its committees or individual directors took place during the year.
The Board does however continuously review its effectiveness by means of informal self-assessment.
Details of directors contract terms are shown in the remuneration report on page 29.
