Corporate Governance THE BOARD AND ITS PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES Remuneration Committee Details of the Board and its principal committees are set out below.
Eight meetings were held during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual directors during 2005 is shown next to the Directors name.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain Barry Gibson Chairman 8 legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance Sue Lyons 8 of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required from Tim Score appointed to committee 14 Dec 2005 0 any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
The full Tim Stevenson resigned Sept 2005 6 terms of reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors including the Chief Executive, The Board of Directors the divisional Chief Executives, the Chairman of the Company and the Fifteen meetings were held during the year.
Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive David Ross Chairman 15 Director including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, Jorge Cosmen Non Executive Director 1 pension arrangements and share options.
The Committee will select, Sir Andrew Foster Non Executive Director 13 appoint and set the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants Barry Gibson Senior Independent Director from 21 Sept 2005 15 who advise the Committee.
The Committee will ensure that contractual Sue Lyons Non Executive Director 15 terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual Tim Score Non Executive Director 13 and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and the duty to mitigate Tim Stevenson Senior Independent Director to 21 Sept 2005 10 loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
Phil White Chief Executive 15 Ray OToole Chief Operating Officer 15 Nomination Committee Adam Walker Finance Director 15 Two meetings were held during the year.
Company Secretary: Tony McDonald also acts as Secretary to the Board David Ross Chairman 2 Committees Sir Andrew Foster 2 Sue Lyons 2 Tim Score and Jorge Cosmen were appointed to the Board on 21 February 2005 and 1 December 2005 respectively The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for the Tim Stevenson resigned from the Board on 21 September 2005 approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
It will give full consideration to succession planning, and keep under There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards attention review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non which includes the review and approval of Group strategy and policies, executive.
The Committee will review the time required from a Non major business acquisitions or disposals, major capital projects, Group Executive Director and use performance evaluation to assess whether the budgets, significant changes to accounting policies, capital structure and Non Executive is spending enough time to fulfil their duties.
Safety and Environment Committee Audit Committee Four meetings were held during the year.
Five meetings were held during the year.
Sue Lyons Chairman 4 Tim Score Chairman appointed Chairman April 2005 4 Jorge Cosmen appointed to committee 1 Dec 2005 1 Tim Stevenson Chairman resigned as Chairman April 2005 2 Sir Andrew Foster 3 Sir Andrew Foster 5 Barry Gibson 4 Barry Gibson 5 David Ross 3 Tim Score appointed to committee Feb 2005 4 The Committee oversees the process for selecting the external auditor, Tim Stevenson resigned from committee Sept 2005 3 assesses the continuing independence of the external auditor and recommends approval of the audit fee to the Board.
It will ensure that The Committee reviews the Groups safety and environment practices, provision of non audit services does not impair the external auditors procedures and record.
It will discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit and any issues or concerns arising from the audit process.
The Committee reviews the internal audit programme, considers major findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews managements financial reporting and risk management.
The Committee reviews the half-year and annual financial statements and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
28 Corporate Governance The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and Barry Gibson is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers ethical practices within all its operations and continues to review its all of the Non Executive Directors to be independent other than Jorge policies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has endorsed a set of principles Cosmen, and considered David Ross to be independent prior to his which establish the framework for how its businesses operate.
Key to appointment as Chairman.
Mr Cosmen is not considered to be these is working in an open and honest manner.
The Company supports independent by the Board due to his close links with the Alsa business the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 and significant interests in the shares of the Company.
The Non Executives the Combined Code.
bring a variety of different experiences and considerable knowledge to assist with Board decisions.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service is In the opinion of the Directors the Group has complied with the non-pensionable.
Short biographies of the Directors are to be found on Combined Code throughout the year apart from: page 25. the Audit Committee did not have a member with recent and The Board meets at least eight times during the year.
In 2005 the Board relevant financial experience from 5 May 2004, when David Ross held an off site strategy meeting and visited businesses in Canada.
There is resigned from the Committee, until the appointment of Tim Score a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, the main to the Committee in February 2005. terms of which are shown on page 28 together with the attendance The Board has not completed a performance evaluation process record of the Directors.
During the year the Chairman met on several during the current year.
It has however, undertaken preliminary work occasions with the Non Executives without the Executive Directors in preparation for an evaluation exercise involving external consultants present to allow informal discussions on a variety of issues.
in 2006 and led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE of the Groups businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies and budgets and its financial performance.
Executive management meetings, The Board of Directors, Chairman and Chief Executive involving the Executive Directors and senior management from the The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled divisions are held regularly to discuss current issues.
by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls.
The Board is responsible for setting the The Company purchases liability insurance to cover the Directors and Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board consists of the Chairman, three Executive and five Non The Board has established a number of committees with defined terms Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are held of reference and receives reports of their proceedings.
The principal separately and the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and committees are the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Chief Executive is shown below.
Committee, the Audit Committee and the Safety and Environment Committee.
The members of each committee, attendance and main Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: duties are shown on page 28.
In addition there is an Executive Committee chairing and managing the business of the Board: with authority to approve routine matters of business and a Treasury together with the Chief Executive, leading the Board in developing the Committee which reviews the Groups banking facilities, treasury reports strategy of the business and ensuring this is effectively implemented by and tax matters.
the Executive management team: ensuring that there is effective dialogue with investors concerning APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD mutual understanding of objectives: The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking responsibility and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee will prepare for the composition and replenishment of the Board: a description of the role and requirements for any particular appointment periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices and based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole.
performance: and ensuring there is effective contribution from the Non Executive The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non Executive Directors Directors and a constructive relationship between the Executive and are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during Non Executive Directors.
normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Non Executive Directors disclose to the Board their other Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive include: significant commitments.
the development and implementation of management strategy: the day to day management of the Group: External advisers are normally appointed when recruiting Board members: managing the executive management team: and they use as a basis for their search a description of the role and fostering relationships with key stakeholders.
capabilities required for a particular appointment proposed by the Nomination Committee.
29 Corporate Governance The induction process includes: THE WORK OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Before making a recommendation for an appointment to the Board the a series of meetings with Directors and senior management tailored Nomination Committee will: to the individuals needs, including site visits and meetings with divisional Chief Executives: prepare a job specification and a description of the capabilities provision of key information on Group policies and procedures: required for a particular post: an appropriate Directors training course: consider the current composition of the Board and mix of skills and an opportunity, if requested by the individual or shareholders, for the experience: and Director to meet with major shareholders fund managers.
where appropriate, and in particular where a vacancy for a Non Executive Director arises, use an external search consultancy and or PERFORMANCE EVALUATION open advertising.
The Board undertook preliminary interviews during 2005 with the Directors in preparation for an external evaluation process which is Tim Score was appointed as a new Non Executive Director in February scheduled to take place in the first half of 2006.
This exercise covers the 2005 following the recognition by the Committee that there was a need performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board and its committees.
for a Non Executive with recent and relevant financial experience.
External consultants were used for this appointment.
RE-ELECTION In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all Directors On completion of the Spanish Alsa transaction in December 2005 Jorge submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following Cosmen was appointed to the Board as a Non Executive Director.
The their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three Board considers his appointment to this position as key in facilitating the years.
Non Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject successful integration of Alsa within the Group, in providing an interface to re-election.
Non Executive Directors will only be put forward for between the two businesses and in providing input to the Board on the re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the Spanish market.
It was therefore not appropriate to use an external search Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates agency for this appointment.
During the year the committee has undertaken work in relation to REMUNERATION AND SERVICE CONTRACTS both succession planning and skills assessment of senior management The report on Directors remuneration including details of remuneration throughout the Group for which purpose external consultants were policy and service contracts is set out on pages 33 to 39. retained.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and Auditors Reports from the Executive Directors, which include in-depth financial are set out on pages 32 and 40. information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Board meeting.
Senior management and advisers give presentations to the Board Internal Control on significant matters during the year.
The Boards responsibilities The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board maintains full control responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Board on compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services formally defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and clear of the Company Secretary and the appointment or removal of the operating processes.
The systems that the Board has established are Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
There is a designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the assets procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional of the Group, and are described below.
On appointment, Directors are offered an appropriate training course and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to their role.
A formal induction process is in place for new Directors the aims of which are to: build an understanding of the nature of the Company, its business and the markets in which it operates: establish a link with the Groups employees: build an understanding of the Groups main relationships including stakeholders and customers.
30 Corporate Governance Board-level reporting on internal control during the year the Audit Key elements of the control framework Committee has reviewed regular reports from the internal audit Strategic and financial planning an annual budgeting and strategic planning department, the external auditors, and executive management on matters process has been established whereby each division and constituent relating to internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
The operating companies assesses its competitive position and goals, taking Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment account of the strategic risks faced.
This strategy is translated into a of the Groups financial position, accounting affairs and control systems.
financial plan with clear milestones and performance indicators.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the Group are being managed.
Performance management the performance of each division and operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal Review of internal control effectiveness monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the Executive The system of internal control and risk management, described above, has Directors at monthly divisional board meetings.
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage, Annual fitness check process a self assessment review takes place at rather than to eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving the Groups each operating company to assess the integrity of the balance sheet and business objectives, and can therefore provide only reasonable and not to challenge the effective operation of key financial and information absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness systems controls within each material accounting cycle.
This process is led of this system has been regularly reviewed by the Directors in line with by divisional finance directors and is closely monitored by group finance the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the and validated by the internal audit department.
Financial Reporting Council Turnbull guidance.
Capital investment a clear process is in place for the approval of capital Audit Committee and Auditors expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits of the The members of the Audit Committee, attendance and main duties are proposed investment and any associated key risks.
Material capital shown on page 28. expenditure requires Board approval.
THE WORK OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Health and Safety Health and safety standards and benchmarks have The Committee meets at least three times a year and receives papers for been established in all our businesses and the performance of operating consideration in advance of the meeting.
The papers reflect the agenda companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
prepared by the Secretary in conjunction with the Committee Chairman.
There are a number of standing items considered during the year such as Risk management reporting process each division and operating consideration of the internal and external audit reports, review of the company evaluates its internal control environment and key risks, and the preliminary and interim announcements and review of the Annual Report results are cascaded through management levels and the Audit Committee and Accounts.
before being presented to the Board.
This process is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and relevance of the key risks reported and Other items that were considered and discussed during the year included presented to the Board on a quarterly basis, unless exceptional issues a review of progress on implementation of the new International Financial arise.
The review covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk Reporting Standards and the resulting restatement of the accounts, annual management controls.
These procedures are mandated and designed to fitness checks within the subsidiaries, the external auditor plan for 2005 manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve their and the external auditors fees.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters Internal audit the internal control system is independently monitored under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors and supported by an outsourced internal audit function.
The internal audit and internal and external auditors.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary function reports to management and the Audit Committee on the of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
Outside Groups financial and operational controls, and reviews the extent to which of the meeting process the Committee Chairman has regular contact with its recommendations have been implemented.
the Executive Directors, other committee members and the auditors on a variety of topics.
31 Corporate Governance The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the The Annual General Meeting independence of the external auditors.
As part of their determination the The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders Audit Committee considers a report by the external auditor on the firms to question the Chairman and Directors on a variety of topics, and independence which is required in order to carry out their professional information is provided at the meeting on different aspects of the Groups duties and responsibilities as auditors.
The majority of non audit work activities.
All of the Companys Directors are present at the meeting.
Proxy undertaken by the external auditors during the year relates to three items.
votes, including the number of abstentions, are displayed on the resolutions These were tax advisory services, advice on the implementation of following the result on a display of hands.
Notice of the Annual General International Financial Reporting Standards and financial due diligence work Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working on the Alsa transaction.
All of these items the Committee believes would days before the meeting.
be impractical and costly to provide through another party.
The Committee has an approved policy on the provision of non-audit services.
The policy STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES sets the approvals policy for the following types of service: The Annual Report contains the accounts and Directors remuneration services that are considered to have general pre-approval by the report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Audit Committee, by virtue of the approval of the policy: International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European services that require specific pre-approval, on a case-by-case basis, Union.
The Directors are required to prepare accounts for each financial before any work can commence: and year that present fairly the financial position of the Company and of the services that cannot be supplied by the external auditors prohibited Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that services.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: In deciding whether or not to grant approval for the provision of specific present information and accounting policies in a manner that provides services by the external auditors, the Audit Committee includes in its relevant, reliable and comparable information: and consideration the following factors: state that the Company has complied with applicable accounting i whether the external auditing firm is best placed to provide an standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained effective and efficient service, given its familiarity with the Companys in the accounts.
processes, systems and people: and ii the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors in the year The Directors confirm that these accounts comply with the above as a proportion of the annual external audit.
WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records A Group whistle blowing policy has been issued to all Group companies which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position to ensure a consistent approach across the Group.
of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders The Company maintains regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and fund managers through a variety of meetings and presentations throughout the year.
Presentations are given by the Executive Directors following the full year and half year results to institutional investors, analysts and brokers which the Non Executive Directors may attend.
In addition, the Companys brokers provide confidential feedback to the Company on the views of the major institutions following the interim and final results.
A biennial independent review of the Companys major investors is undertaken which asks for feedback on financial performance and management.
The next review will be in 2006.
During the year written responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders and all shareholders receive copies of the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report.
The Company has introduced an electronic communications facility to enable shareholders to receive documentation such as the Annual Report and Accounts electronically and also to cast their votes by proxy electronically.
The Company has also introduced an electronic proxy appointment service for CREST members.
com, houses wide ranging information about the Group, including the final and interim announcements, Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, share price data and links to subsidiary company websites.
