44 Corporate governance report Introduction and general compliance statement A Standing Committee can take urgent decisions not The Board recognises the importance to the Company and delegated to a specific committee between Board meetings.
its shareholders of good corporate governance, which it All directors receive notice of Standing Committee meetings regards as an integral part of the running of the Company.
and are able to participate if they wish.
Decisions taken by The Board is committed to achieving high standards of the Standing Committee are reported at the next meeting of corporate governance and undertakes regular reviews of the Board.
This report, the directors report and the directors remuneration report describe how the Company The Company recognises its responsibilities towards its has applied the principles of the Combined Code.
The Board stakeholders and to the environment.
To help meet those is pleased to report that compliance with the Combined responsibilities, the Board has approved Our Code of Conduct Code has improved since the last annual report, and and will endeavour to act in accordance with this Code in all believes that during the year, and up to the date of this its activities.
report, it has complied with the main and supporting principles and the provisions of the Combined Code, except Board balance and independence in the following areas.
Prior to 27 May 2004, the Company There are seven directors.
Sir Fred Holliday is the nondid not comply with A.
3.2 at least half the board to comprise executive Chairman.
The executive directors are John independent non-executive directors, A.
4.1 composition Cuthbert Managing Director and Chris Green Finance of the Nomination Committee not compliant and C. 3.1 Director.
Sir Patrick Brown is the Senior Independent Noncomposition of the Audit Committee not compliant.
executive Director and the other independent non-executive directors are Martin Ngre, Sir Derek Wanless and Jenny The Companys principal operating subsidiary, NWL, has also Williams.
Martin Parker is the Company Secretary.
The endeavoured to maintain its own high standards of corporate Company complies with the Combined Codes requirement governance and to comply with the Combined Code, that half of the directors, excluding the Chairman, are wherever practicable, during the year.
Biographical details of the directors appear on page 11 and details of their service The Board also seeks to comply with industry best practice contracts in the directors remuneration report on page 50. as set out in ABI and NAPF guidelines, for example, and has made disclosures in line with those guidelines Until 28 April 2005, the Companys former shareholder Suez where appropriate.
had two nominated directors on the Board.
Further details of these directors and of Suezs shareholding are given in the The Board directors report on page 41.
The Board met six times during the year, and held a strategy day in February 2005.
A table showing the number of Board The Chairman and Managing Director have clearly defined and committee meetings held, and attendance by individual written responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
directors, can be found at the end of this report.
Under the The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures creating the conditions for overall Board and individual that the directors receive all necessary information and that director effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
relevant information flows effectively between the Board, its The Managing Director is responsible for running the committees and senior management.
The Company Secretary Companys business.
also co-ordinates the induction process and assists with professional development, as required.
The Combined Code sets out factors which may be relevant to a boards assessment of the independence of a nonThe Board has overall responsibility for determining the executive director, including whether he or she has been an Groups strategy and the annual operating budget, setting employee of the group in question in the previous five years, the broad direction and strategy of the Group and the has had a material business relationship with the Company in structure to ensure its continuance and prosperity.
The Board the previous three years in his or her capacity as a director or monitors and controls the implementation of strategy, policies senior employee of a body which has had a material business and plans, and legal and fiduciary obligations.
Non-executive relationship with the company, or has cross directorships directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals with other directors through involvement in other companies on strategy.
During the year, the Chairman met with the nonor bodies.
executive directors in the absence of the executive directors to discuss, amongst other business, the performance of the Martin Ngre was, as an employee of the Suez Group, the executive directors.
Chief Executive Officer of NSL then named Northumbrian Water Group plc between April 2000 and April 2001.
During The Company has adopted Company Management that time NSL was wholly owned by Suez.
The duration of Guidelines setting out the matters reserved to the Board his connection with NSL was therefore only 12 months.
for approval and matters which are, or can be, delegated to He is also a non-executive director of Ecofin Water & Power the committees and management.
These guidelines include Opportunities plc, which held less than 2% of the share financial limits for each level of authority below Board level, capital of the Company as at 31 March 2005.
The Board and are circulated to directors of subsidiaries and relevant considers that Martin Ngre is independent in character and senior managers within the Group.
Terms of reference of judgement, and that his past employment and present the main committees have been approved by the Board.
circumstances are not likely to affect his judgement.
45 Nomination Committee Performance evaluation The members of the Nomination Committee are Sir Fred The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary, Holliday Chairman, Sir Patrick Brown, John Cuthbert, takes primary responsibility for the evaluation of the Martin Ngre, Sir Derek Wanless and Jenny Williams.
Prior performance of the Board, its committees and individual to 27 May 2004, pending the appointment of further directors.
During the year, a performance evaluation of the independent non-executive directors, it was felt that all Board Board, of each of its committees and of each director took members were able to provide a valuable contribution to the place.
Each director completed a detailed questionnaire, nomination process, therefore all directors were members of which was used to assist the Chairman in assessing the the Nomination Committee.
Since 27 May 2004, the majority performance of each director, each committee and the of members of the Committee have been independent nonBoard against defined criteria.
The Chairman then discussed executive directors, in accordance with the Combined Code.
his assessment with the directors and with the Board.
As a Bernard Guirkinger was a member of the Committee until his result of these discussions, the Company has adopted a resignation from the Board on 28 April 2005. more formal procedure in relation to the work of the Nomination Committee.
Sir Patrick Brown met with the The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify other non-executive directors, without the Chairman or and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for approval executive directors being present, to evaluate the by the Board.
The Committee reviews succession planning Chairmans performance.
for the Board and will make recommendations to the Board when appropriate.
The Committee has now developed its Remuneration Committee procedure for future appointments and intends to use Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and external recruitment consultants or advertise in order to of the directors remuneration are set out in the directors identify suitable candidates.
The Committees terms of remuneration report on pages 48 to 53. reference are available on the Companys website.
All nonexecutive directors are appointed for a term of three years.
Accountability and audit In accordance with the Articles, all directors are subject to Audit Committee re-election at least every three years.
The Audit Committee comprises Sir Patrick Brown Chairman, Sir Derek Wanless and Jenny Williams, who are Jenny Williams was appointed as an independent nonall independent non-executive directors in accordance with executive director on 27 May 2004.
The Chairman sought the Combined Code.
The Board is satisfied that Sir Derek advice and suggestions both within and outside the Wanless has recent significant financial experience.
At the Company, considering career details and references in respect start of the year, pending the appointment of an additional of several candidates for the post, before the whole Board independent non-executive director, the members of the considered the appointment.
This process produced a number Committee were Sir Patrick Brown, Alain Chaigneau and Sir of suitable candidates making it unnecessary to engage Derek Wanless.
Following the appointment to the Board and search consultants or advertise the post.
the Committee of Jenny Williams on 27 May 2004, Alain Chaigneau left the Committee.
The Managing Director and Following the resignation of Jacques Ptry on 27 May 2004, Finance Director are invited to Audit Committee meetings Bernard Guirkinger was nominated as his replacement with the permission of its Chairman, but have no right of by Suez and, following Alain Chaigneaus resignation attendance.
Alain Chaigneau attended one meeting of the on 17 March 2005, Christophe Cros was nominated as his Audit Committee on a similar basis.
The Nomination Committee considered both appointments.
Following the sale of Suezs shareholding The role of the Committee includes monitoring the integrity in the Company, Bernard Guirkinger and Christophe Cros of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing the resigned from the Board.
Companys internal financial controls, and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function Information and professional development and the external auditors.
The Committee also monitors All directors are able to access independent professional the potential impact and management of significant risks advice to assist them in the performance of their duties, at the on the business using a risk methodology developed by Entec, Companys expense, and also have access to the Company to meet the recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
This Secretary for advice and assistance.
The Chairman, with the methodology sets out and rates all identified risks, including assistance of the Company Secretary, is reviewing the operational, external, financial, environmental, reputational, ongoing training process for directors.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
External appointments The Board has no formal policy on external appointments of The Committee has approved a procedure for the approval directors, but follows the recommendations of the Combined of non-audit services to safeguard the objectivity and Code.
Fees paid in respect of external appointments are independence of the external auditors.
Certain services are retained by the Company.
The Nomination Committee prohibited, for example bookkeeping, financial information ensures, on appointment, that a director has sufficient time to systems design and information, and internal audit undertake his or her duties.
Any new external commitments outsourcing services, whilst others require prior approval, taken on after appointment are discussed with the Chairman either from the Audit Committee Chairman, if under to ensure that no detriment to the performance of the 50,000, or from the Audit Committee, if over 50,000. directors present duties for the Company can be foreseen.
The Company requires the auditors to report annually details Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05 46 Corporate governance report continued of all non-audit services provided.
The auditors must also For a number of years, the Subsidiary Boards have performed confirm to the Audit Committee, in accordance with SAS610 a full annual business risk analysis using the risk methodology Communication of audit matters to those charged with developed by Entec, to meet the recommendations of the governance, that they have considered their relationship with Turnbull Report.
This methodology is described above, in the Company and that, in their professional judgement, the relation to the work of the Audit Committee.
The results of objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is the risk reviews are reported in detail to the Audit Committee, not impaired.
A breakdown of the cost of audit and non-audit and a summary is reported to the Companys directors.
services provided by the auditors is provided in note 3 to the Accompanying the risk model is a detailed review of each financial statements.
companys internal financial controls, along with either confirmation that the controls have operated throughout Review of internal control the year or details of any exceptions.
Action points arising The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound from these reviews are followed up as part of the internal system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the internal control system are carried out in accordance with the guidelines Some subsidiaries, such as NWL, consider risks more issued in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the frequently.
Its management team considers significant risks in Combined Code published by the Institute of Chartered a structured way every two months, assessing the likelihood Accountants in England & Wales in 1999.
This process has and potential impact of the relevant risks both before and been in place throughout the year and up to the date of after risk management measures have been put in place.
approval of the annual report and financial statements Further details about how risks and uncertainties facing the 2004 05.
There are inherent limitations in any system of Group are assessed and managed can be found on pages 27 internal control and even the most effective system can only to 29.
NWL operates a balanced scorecard system which provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against monitors progress against KPIs and which covers all areas of material misstatement or loss.
Performance against these KPIs is used to calculate the annual bonus paid to all NWL employees.
The Company has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, outlined below, as On a monthly basis, the Managing Director and the Finance follows during the year: Director compare the actual operational and financial the Audit Committee and internal auditor have considered performance of each business with its plan and budget.
the methodology of the annual business risk analysis Targets are set to measure performance and regular used: and forecasts are made.
the internal auditor, Group Financial Controller and internal lawyers of the Company have reviewed the effectiveness of Information and reporting system the Companys management guidelines and financial Each Subsidiary Board holds a copy of the Companys controls, which resulted in revised Financial Approval Rules financial control manual and Management Guidelines, being presented to, and approved by, the Board on which contain full details of the procedures for distribution 29 July 2004. of information and financial reporting.
Each Subsidiary Board has developed financial control systems appropriate to Organisational structure its activities.
Local boards of directors in the Companys trading subsidiaries the Subsidiary Boards are responsible for the Budgets and business planning operational and financial control of their own businesses.
The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans Subsidiary Boards report to the Managing Director, or Finance and annual budgets, which are reviewed by the Managing Director, and to the Companys Board on matters including Director and Finance Director and submitted to the Companys major strategic, financial, organisational, compliance and Board for approval.
Business plans and budgets include an regulatory issues.
assessment of the key risks and success factors facing each business unit.
The Board is able to monitor the impact of social, environment and ethical matters on the Groups business, to The approval of the Board is required for major investments, assess the impact of significant risks on the business, and to including those in new markets, and large capital expenditure evaluate methods of managing these risks through reports it programmes.
The treasury strategy, which is approved by receives from the Subsidiary Boards, the Audit Committee the Board, requires that investments are limited to certain and the Sustainable Development Committee SDC.
The only money market and treasury instruments, and that the environmental risk considered to be significant by the Board is Groups exposure to any single bank, building society or the potential loss of the use of agricultural land for processed market is controlled, with maximum deposits allowed with sewage treatment sludge disposal.
To reduce this risk, NWL any single counterparty.
The Groups investment strategy has entered into a contract to supply a cement manufacturing aims to fix interest rates for part of the Groups borrowings company with pellets made from the processed sludge, which and investments for periods determined by the forecast cash are used as fuel in a cement kiln.
Further details are provided flow of the individual businesses.
This manages the exposure on page 8. to the risk of changes in short term interest rates.
Foreign currency exposure is also managed as part of the treasury strategy approved by the Board.
47 The Board therefore believes that there are effective systems Relations with shareholders in place to identify and manage significant risks, and that it The Company welcomes constructive communication with receives sufficient information to enable it to assess these risks.
The executive directors of the Company maintain regular dialogue with its large institutional Treasury Committee investors, as well as giving presentations to analysts at the The Treasury Committee comprises Sir Derek Wanless announcements of its interim and preliminary results.
During Chairman and Sir Patrick Brown.
Prior to his resignation the year, the executive directors met 40 times with institutional on 17 March 2005, Alain Chaigneau was Chairman of the investors, and discussed any issues raised at these meetings Committee.
He was replaced by Christophe Cros who with the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Investor resigned on 28 April 2005 and did not attend any meetings feedback from these meetings is presented to the Board to help of the Committee.
The Treasury Committee is responsible for the non-executive directors develop a better understanding reviewing and recommending treasury policies to the Board, of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman would as well as monitoring the current economic environment and welcome contact with any shareholders who have matters they the likely future financing requirements of the Group.
Institutional shareholders have not made any treasury strategy was developed by the Treasury Committee formal requests to meet with non-executive directors.
and approved by the Board.
A letter from the Chairman was sent to all shareholders with Sustainable Development Committee the Companys interim report in December 2004, informing The SDC members include Sir Fred Holliday and John shareholders of the services available to them, and inviting Cuthbert: other members are invited from subsidiaries around feedback on additional shareholder services being considered the Group.
Until his resignation on 28 April 2005, Bernard by the Company.
All shareholders are encouraged to contact Guirkinger was also a member of the Committee.
The SDC the Company with queries or suggestions, and can also access establishes best practice and ensures compliance across the the Companys website.
The Chairman sends a welcome letter Group on all ethical, environmental, social and economic to all new non-corporate shareholders.
Shareholders are matters in the context of sustainable development.
Further encouraged to attend the Companys AGM, at which they information is provided in the Sustainable Development can meet and question the directors.
The Company will make Performance Report, which is available on request and on a presentation at the AGM to highlight the key business the Companys website.
developments and events during the year.
The full Board is expected to be available at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
The Board complies with the Combined Code on the constructive use of the AGM.
Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings during the year RemuRemuNomiAudit Board Board Board Audit Treasuryneration Board Audit Board neration nation Treasury Board Name 26.5.
05 Sir Fred Holliday Sir Patrick Brown Alain Chaigneau Resigned 17.3.
05 John Cuthbert Chris Green Bernard Guirkinger Resigned 28.4.
05 Martin Ngre Jacques Ptry Resigned 27.5.
04 Sir Derek Wanless Jenny Williams Jean-Louis Chaussade alternate for B. Guirkinger Resigned 28.4.
05 Michel Botrel alternate for A. Chaigneau Resigned 28.4.
05 Attended Absent Not a member of the Board or relevant committee Martin Parker Company Secretary 7 June 2005 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 05
