CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has an internal procedure to evaluate the performance of COMPLIANCE the whole Board, each Committee, the Chairman, each individual Director and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
This The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate evaluation procedure was carried out for the year by the Group General governance with the aim of continuing to enhance its effectiveness.
Counsel & Company Secretary seeking all participants views on a The Annual Report is the principal means of reporting to range of prescribed questions designed to ensure objective evaluation shareholders on the Boards governance policies.
This section sets of performance.
The participants responses were then summarised out how the main and supporting principles of good corporate and evaluated by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary for governance contained in Section 1 of the new Combined Code issued the Board to consider and determine whether any changes were in July 2003 annexed to the UK Listing Authority Rules have been necessary for the Board to be more effective.
Overall performance was applied by the Company in practice.
Throughout the year, the considered to be satisfactory but a number of minor issues were Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
identified where changes could be made to improve performance.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated separately by the NonTHE BOARD executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Board of Directors at the end of the year comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-executive All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Directors.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be Groups affairs with the Non-executive Directors having a particular independent and Gerard Connell is the Senior independent Nonresponsibility for ensuring strategies proposed for the development of executive Director.
The biographies on page 37 demonstrate a broad the business are critically reviewed.
The Non-executive Directors also range of business and financial experience and there is a clear critically examine the operational and financial performance of the division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and the Group and fulfil a key role in corporate accountability through their Chief Executives of South West Water and Viridor Waste as recorded membership of various Committees of the Board.
Group Policy in the descriptions of the roles approved by the Board.
All Directors allocates the tasks of giving detailed consideration to specified are subject to re-election at least every three years.
matters, to monitoring executive actions and to assessing reward to the Board Committees as follows: During the year, the Board met in accordance with its schedule of meetings on 10 occasions and at each meeting all Directors were Audit Committee present with the exception of Gerard Connell on one occasion and Kate Mortimer on two occasions.
The Board also held six special The Audit Committee was chaired by Gerard Connell, who has recent meetings during the year at which all Directors were present with the and relevant financial experience, and the other members of the exception of Kate Mortimer on two occasions.
The Board has adopted Committee were Kate Mortimer and Dinah Nichols.
During the year, a Group Policy which includes a schedule of matters reserved for its the Committee met on five occasions and all members were present decision.
The Board has delegated more detailed consideration of except Kate Mortimer on one occasion.
In discharging its Terms of certain matters to Board Committees, to the subsidiary boards of Reference, the Committee receives reports and meets regularly to in South West Water and Viridor Waste and to the Executive Directors particular: and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary as appropriate.
Recognising this policy, the matters reserved to the Board include monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals, including a review of significant reporting judgements, prior to major items of capital expenditure, authority levels for other approval by the Board: expenditure, risk management and approval of the Strategic Plan keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal and annual operating budgets.
The Board operates by receiving controls, including all material financial, operational and written reports circulated in advance from the Executive Directors compliance controls and risk management systems: and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on matters monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit within their respective business areas within the Group.
Under the function and approve the annual internal audit plan: review the guidance of the Chairman, all matters before the Board are discussed findings of the internal audit function and review and monitor openly and if necessary, presentations and advice are received on managements responsiveness to such findings: occasions from other senior executives within the Group or external advisers.
oversee the relationship with the external auditors including their remuneration, appointment, reappointment and removal and in Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group General addition monitor their independence and objectivity including the Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has established a supply of non-audit services: receive internal control reports from procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil their duties, may seek the external auditors and meet with them in the absence of independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The management at least once a year to discuss their remit and any training needs of Directors are reviewed on a regular basis.
issues arising from the audit.
Pennon Group Plc 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Committee pays particular attention to the independence and Environment Committee objectivity of the auditors and has established a policy for the engagement of the auditors for non-audit work by the Group.
This The Environment Committee was chaired by Bruce Hewett a coinvolves the Group Director of Finance setting out in a report to the opted member and former Non-executive Director of the Company Committee reasons for appointing the auditors for any material work and also comprised the Chief Executives of South West Water and and obtaining the approval of the Committee to such appointment Viridor Waste.
The Committee met four times during the year with all which the Committee will only grant if it is satisfied that the members present except for Bruce Hewett on one occasion.
It is auditors independence and objectivity are safeguarded.
This is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the environmental achieved by reviewing the appointment with the auditors as policies of Group companies and their achievement of considered appropriate and receiving from the auditors at the year environmental objectives and targets and considering the Groups end a letter setting out how the auditors believe their independence annual corporate responsibility report.
and objectivity have been maintained.
In addition, the Companys current auditors ensure that the senior partner responsible for the INTERNAL CONTROL external audit of the Group remains responsible for such audit for no more than five years and that there is an independent partner who Wider aspects of internal control is involved in planning and in the reviewing of the final accounts of the Company and also any critical matters that may be identified in The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Companys the audit.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are contained in note system of internal control including financial control and for 3 to the financial statements on page 58.
The Executive Directors reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather attend by invitation and the Companys auditors have the right of than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and direct access to the Committee without the presence of any can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Executive Director.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Remuneration Committee the Company that has been in place throughout the year 2004 05 and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Kate Mortimer and Accounts.
The Board confirms that it continues to apply procedures Gerard Connell and Dinah Nichols were the other members of the in accordance with the Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Committee.
The Committee met on seven occasions during the year Guidance annexed to the Combined Code.
As part of these and all members were present except Gerard Connell on one procedures, the Board has a formalised risk management policy occasion.
The Committee is responsible for determining the which provides for the identification of key risks in relation to the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Chairman and the achievement of the business objectives of the Group.
This policy is remuneration and terms of employment of the Executive Directors applied by all business units within the Group in accordance with an and senior management of the Group.
Members of the Remuneration annual timetable.
Committee do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
The Directors report on remuneration, which also Risk identification provides more information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee, appears on pages 38 to 44.
A full risk and control assessment is undertaken annually by the management of each business to identify financial and nonfinancial risks and is continuously updated.
Each business then Nomination Committee receives as part of its regular management reports an enhanced and focused assessment of key risks against corporate objectives.
The The Nomination Committee was chaired by Ken Harvey and also Board at each meeting receives from Executive Directors details of comprised Kate Mortimer, Dinah Nichols and Gerard Connell.
It any new high level risks identified and how they are to be managed, meets as and when required to select and recommend to the Board together with details of any changes to existing risks and their suitable candidates for appointment as Executive and Nonmanagement.
The subsidiary Boards of South West Water and Viridor executive Directors, determine the nomination process and review Waste also receive at each meeting similar reports in respect of their succession plans.
During the year, it met on two occasions and all own areas of responsibility.
All senior managers are required to members were present except for Kate Mortimer on one occasion to certify on an annual basis that they have established effective review succession plans for the Executive Directors of the Board and controls to manage risks and to operate in compliance with senior management and to formally determine the nomination legislation and Group procedures.
All of these processes serve to process for Board appointments.
ensure that a culture of effective control and risk management is embedded within the organisation and that the Group is in a The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination position to react appropriately to new risks as they arise.
Details of Committees are available upon request to the Company Secretary and key risks affecting the Group are set out in the Operating and are also set out on the Companys website at www.
co. uk Financial Review on pages 23 to 27.
46 Pennon Group Plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL continued DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT After the end of each financial year, both the Board and the Audit The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare Committee receive a report from the Group General Counsel & financial statements for each financial year which give a true and Company Secretary on overall internal control compliance by the fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at Group.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control is then the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for undertaken initially by the Audit Committee and then reported to the financial year.
the Board for final evaluation.
For 2004 05, both the Committee In preparing the financial statements, appropriate accounting and the Board were satisfied with the effectiveness of the internal policies have been used and consistently applied and reasonable control process and its operation.
and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
All relevant accounting standards which the Directors consider to be Internal control framework applicable have been followed.
There is an established internal control framework which comprises: The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that accounting a a clearly defined structure which delegates an appropriate records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the level of authority, responsibility and accountability, financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable including responsibility for internal financial control, to them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the management of operating units: Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the b a comprehensive budgeting and reporting function with an prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
annual budget approved by the Board of Directors, which also monitors monthly achieved results and updated RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS forecasts for the year against budget: c documented financial control procedures.
Managers of The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional operating units are required to confirm annually that they shareholders and has a well developed investor relations have adequate financial controls in operation and to report programme.
During the year, meetings with institutional all material areas of financial risk.
Compliance with shareholders were held and were attended by the Group Director of procedures is reviewed by the Companys internal audit Finance and the Companys Investor Relations Manager and on function: and certain occasions, the Chairman, the Chief Executive of South West Water and the Chief Executive of Viridor Waste also attended.
The d an investment appraisal process for evaluating proposals for Board encourages the participation of shareholders at the Annual all major capital expenditure and acquisitions, with defined General Meeting and complies with the provisions of the Combined levels of approval and a system for monitoring the progress Code in respect of relations with shareholders.
In particular, Nonof capital projects.
executive Directors are invited to attend meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts and brokers briefings.
The Group The Audit Committee regularly reviews the operation and Director of Finance reports to the Board regularly on major effectiveness of this framework and also annually reviews the scope shareholders views about the Company.
The Group Director of of work, authority and resources of the Companys internal audit Finance also conducts surveys of shareholder opinion, usually on an function and reports to the Board on such reviews.
annual basis, which are evaluated and reported on to the Board.
GOING CONCERN By Order of the Board The Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries, that the KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 23 June 2005 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
