10549 R&A 2005 Mid 20 3 06 11:58 Page 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board believes that by adopting and implementing the highest standards of There was full attendance by all Directors at Board and Committee meetings corporate governance, it sets the standard and values for the entire Group.
By during the year except that Sir Chips Keswick and Adam Applegarth were aiming to comply with best practice in all areas of corporate governance, the unable to attend one Board meeting each, and Neil Davidson was unable to Directors seek to provide assurance to shareholders and set the standards to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting.
which all Group employees adhere.
The Board undertakes an annual verbal self evaluation of its performance The Board sets out below how the principles of the Combined Code on and the performance of its Committees and the individual Directors.
Corporate Governance dated July 2003 the Code have been adopted and The non-executive Directors undertake an annual performance evaluation implemented by the Company.
of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
This rigorous procedure does not involve either written appraisals or external DIRECTORS evaluation as the Board do not consider that such formal procedures will The Board consists of five executive Directors and seven non-executive enhance or add to the effectiveness of the Board.
Directors, following the appointment of Adam Applegarth and Nicholas All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Wrigley as non-executive Directors on 1 May 2005 and 1 February 2006 Secretary and may also seek independent professional advice and training, at respectively.
The executive Directors provide a direct line of control between the Companys expense, if so required to carry out their duties.
All executive the Company and its operating businesses.
The non-executive Directors Directors have twelve month rolling contracts.
The non-executive Directors do provide a balance to the Board and bring a wide breadth of experience.
The Board considers all the non-executive Directors to be independent except for the Chairman, Duncan Davidson.
The Senior Independent Director is NOMINATION COMMITTEE David Thompson.
The members of the Nomination Committee during 2005 were Duncan As announced at the Companys AGM in 2005 the Chairman, Duncan Davidson Chairman, Sir Chips Keswick, Hamish Leslie Melville and Davidson and Sir Chips Keswick will retire immediately following the David Thompson.
Companys Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2006.
John White will Prior to the Chairmans announcement that he would be retiring at the AGM become executive Chairman in succession to Duncan Davidson: Mr White in 2006, the Nomination Committee met to consider the appointment of the is standing for re-election as a director at the AGM.
successor to the Chairman: Sir Chips Keswick chaired the Committee meeting.
Hamish Leslie Melville has now completed more than ten years service as a The Board had approved the division of responsibilities between the Chairman non-executive director.
The Board considers Hamish Leslie Melville to be and the Chief Executive on 20 April 2005. independent because his long standing appointment has not in any way affected The Committee considered that the continuity of strong management within his objectivity and his ability to advise and question the executive Directors, the Company was an absolute priority.
The Committee considered but rejected particularly in respect of strategy and the Companys financial affairs.
His long an external appointment particularly in view of the strength of management association with the Company has given him a sound and detailed knowledge within the Company.
The Committee considered that it was appropriate to of the Companys business which has enabled him to consider and evaluate appoint John White, currently Group Chief Executive, to the position of information and responses from executive Directors quickly and concisely.
executive Chairman with effect from 21 April 2006, notwithstanding Code His wise counsel has contributed signicantly to the Companys success.
The Nomination Committee consulted major shareholders The Chairman has reviewed Hamish Leslie Melvilles performance and he who were supportive of the Companys plans for continuity in management, believes that his performance continues to be most effective.
The Board particularly bearing in mind the strong working relationship between considers it important to continue to have access to the judgement of John White and Mike Farley.
The Committee recommended to the Board Hamish Leslie Melville in managing the continued growth and expansion that John White be appointed Chairman with effect from 21 April 2006, and of the Company.
Hamish Leslie Melville will retire and be available for Mike Farley be appointed his successor as Group Chief Executive.
re-election to the Board annually.
Hamish Leslie Meville has tendered The Board considered the Committees recommendations and unanimously his resignation from the Remuneration Committee with effect from approved the appointment of John White as Chairman, and the appointment 21 April 2006. of Mike Farley as Group Chief Executive with effect from 21 April 2006.
John Millar retires as a director at the 2006 AGM having reached his normal During 2005 the Board considered that further appointments of new retirement date.
independent non-executive Directors would benefit the Company in view of The Board meets six times a year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved the impending retirement of the Chairman and Sir Chips Keswick.
The Board for its consideration and decision.
This schedule includes the approval of instructed the Committee to make recommendations for a non-executive financial and marketing strategy, dividend policy, approval of annual and Director who would bring different skills and expertise to the Board.
interim results, major investments, review of performance, monitoring risk, The Nomination Committee consulted the Board, some major shareholders ensuring adequate financial resources are available and reporting to and its merchant bankers in connection with these appointments.
The schedule is reviewed on an annual basis.
44 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005 10549 R&A 2005 Mid 20 3 06 11:58 Page 45 The Committee did not use a recruitment agency or open advertising as it did The Remuneration Committee will undertake a thorough review of not consider that this would have assisted in the recruitment of high calibre remuneration for executive Directors during 2006 and report to shareholders non-executive directors, with the right skills to complement the Board.
at the AGM in 2007, when approval will be sought for new remuneration arrangements for executive Directors from 1 January 2007.
The Committee recommended Adam Applegarth to the Board and he was subsequently appointed on 1 May 2005.
In December, the Nomination In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, Committee recommended Nicholas Wrigley to the Board and he was appointed the Remuneration Report will be put to the shareholders for their approval on the 1 February 2006.
Both Mr Applegarth and Mr Wrigley were given a at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2006. comprehensive induction to the Company.
They have had detailed discussions ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
They have been provided with full The Company has an established Audit Committee to whom the external information relating to the Companys financial position including current auditors, KPMG Audit Plc report.
During 2005 the Audit Committee was management accounts.
In addition major shareholders will have the wholly comprised of independent non-executive Directors and the members opportunity to meet Adam Applegarth and Nicholas Wrigley either privately were David Thompson Chairman, Hamish Leslie Melville and Neil Davidson.
or at the forthcoming AGM.
All members of the Committee have recent relevant financial experience: please see Directors biographies on pages 26 and 27.
The composition of the Board with effect from 21 April 2006 will be four executive Directors, John White Chairman, Mike Farley Group Chief The role of the Audit Committee is to review the Companys financial Executive, Mike Killoran Group Finance Director, David Bryant Group reporting, monitor the Companys internal controls and Group Risk Development Director and five non-executive Directors Hamish Leslie management function and oversee the Companys relations with Melville, David Thompson Senior Independent Director, Neil Davidson, external auditors.
Adam Applegarth and Nicholas Wrigley, all of whom the Board considers to The Committees terms of reference were adopted on 25 February 2004. be independent.
During the year the Board reviewed the Committees terms of reference and no The Nomination Committee with effect from 21 April 2006 will be amendments were made.
The terms of reference of the Group Risk John White Chairman, Hamish Leslie Melville and David Thompson.
management function are recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board, and were unchanged in 2005.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
The Committee During 2005 the Remuneration Committee was comprised of independent agreed the nature and scope of the audit with the Auditors and monitored the non-executive Directors, namely Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman, quarterly findings of the Auditors and Group Risk.
The Committee regularly David Thompson and Neil Davidson.
Hamish Leslie Melville will retire from met with the Auditors without the presence of the Companys management.
the Committee on 21 April 2006 and Adam Applegarth has been appointed to the Committee as Chairman with effect from the same date.
A formal evaluation of the Auditors was undertaken by the Audit Committee in April 2005 which took into account the calibre of the audit rm, quality The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of control processes, audit team members, the scope of the audit, audit fees, audit the Chairman and the executive Directors.
The Committees remuneration communications, audit governance and independence.
The results of the policy aims to design a package that will align the interests of the executive evaluation were very positive and the Audit Committee concluded that the Directors with those of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee met twice current auditor, KPMG Audit Plc should continue to provide its services to during the year to consider and approve the remuneration of the executive the Company.
Further details of the remuneration policy and the remuneration package for each Director serving during 2005 are set out in the Remuneration The Audit Committee formulates and oversees the Company policy on Report on pages 36 to 42. monitoring auditor objectivity and independence in relation to non audit services.
The policy is to ensure that the nature of non audit services performed During the acquisition of Westbury plc the Board asked the Remuneration or the fee income relative to the audit fee does not compromise or is not seen to Committee to review whether the executive Directors remuneration packages compromise the auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditors remained appropriate to incentivise and reward the executive Directors in the are excluded from undertaking a range of work on behalf of the Company, running of the enlarged business.
The Remuneration Committee considered which includes appraisal or valuation services and management functions.
that the executive Directors remuneration package did not properly incentivise and reward the executive Directors and recommended to the Board the adoption of the Synergy Incentive Plan SIP.
The Board considered and approved the SIP which was tabled at the Extraordinary General Meeting convened on 6 January 2006 to approve the acquisition of Westbury plc and was duly approved by shareholders.
Further details of the SIP are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38.
45 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance 10549 R&A 2005 Mid 20 3 06 11:58 Page 46 The Company has had a whistle blowing procedure in place for a number of The Risk Committee met six times during the year ensuring that there has been years, which is publicised in the staff handbook.
All employees may raise an ongoing process for the identication, evaluation and management of the concerns about malpractice or improper or potentially illegal behaviour in significant risks that are faced by the Company.
confidence without concern of victimisation or disciplinary action.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than INTERNAL CONTROL eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has complied with the Code provisions on internal control having continued to operate the procedures necessary to implement the COMBINED CODE guidance issued in September 1999 the Turnbull Committee Report The Board supports the highest standards in Corporate Governance and throughout the year.
continues to review the Code as well as the Companys procedures to maintain The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal proper control and accountability.
control and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role of management The Company complied with the Code throughout 2005 except that: to implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
All employees have The Board undertakes an annual verbal self evaluation of its performance and some responsibility for internal control as part of their accountability for the performance of its Committees and the individual Directors.
rigorous procedure does not include a formal written performance evaluation Code Provision A.
6 : The Risk Committee is a Committee of the Board and has the delegated task of overseeing the Boards responsibilities with respect to risk and internal At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, did not comprise control.
Specically this includes determining appropriate control procedures independent non-executive Directors until the appointment of Adam and the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
The members during Applegarth on 1 May 2005 Code Provision A.
2005 were John White, Mike Farley, John Millar and Mike Killoran.
The Risk RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Committee reports to the Audit Committee which maintains oversight of the Risk Committees activities.
John Millar will retire from the Risk Committee The Board has always sought good relations with the Companys shareholders on 21 April 2006. and believes it is important that shareholders receive timely information on their Companys progress.
As well as the announcement of interim and final As part of its ongoing activities, the Group Risk management function has results, the Company issues regular trading statements to the London Stock updated the Groups risk assessment during the year.
The results of this process Exchange.
have been reported to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a risk focused programme of work designed to improve business processes and The Directors understand that it is important for both private and institutional increase internal control effectiveness.
shareholders to have the opportunity to raise concerns or discuss matters with them.
The Chairman, Duncan Davidson and the Senior Independent Director, The processes that the Risk Committee has applied in reviewing the David Thompson maintain contact with major shareholders to understand effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following:- their issues and concerns.
John White and Mike Killoran have responsibility for ensuring that there is a continuous detailed involvement in land acquisition maintaining appropriate communications with institutional investors.
All of the assessment together with regular site visits and discussion with the site based Directors attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to personnel by all senior management: answer questions at the meeting or privately.
review of representations on risk and control from all Managing Directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control within By order of the Board their operating businesses: review of representations on risk and control from key head ofce and divisional management: review of reports produced by the Group Risk management function and external audit on internal control and management of risk: Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 24 February 2006 ongoing review of Company performance in comparison to operational forecasts and financial budgets: involvement in individual operating businesses board discussions, specically operational board meetings where all aspects of operational performance are analysed.
46 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance
