Corporate governance report The Company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal the London Stock Exchange, with the intention that all principles code relating to corporate governance.
However, the Board is should be applied in future.
The Company has applied the principles committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the of good governance set out in section 1 of the Code as reported 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code annexed below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Code seeks to Statement of compliance with the Provisions of ensure that the Company is run in a manner whereby the interests of Good Governance shareholders are protected and as such the Code sets out principles The Company has complied with the majority of the provisions of together with supporting principles and provisions which outline how section 1 of the Code following listing.
Areas of non-compliance for this may be achieved.
2005 are identified in the following table, with the majority of such matters having arisen prior to the Companys listing.
Statement about applying Principles of Good Governance The Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange on Areas of non-compliance with those provisions of the Code relating 7 October 2005.
Although the Board has applied many of the to remuneration are outlined in the Remuneration Report.
principles of good governance for some time, the Board undertook a review of the Companys governance in preparation for admission to Provision Reason for non-compliance A3.2 The Board should have a balance between non-executive The current Board is compliant but from 1 January 2005 to and executive directors.
13 September 2005, the Board was comprised of a majority of executive directors.
A4.1 A Nominations Committee to be established and new Prior to listing, the Company did not have a standing Nominations Committee.
The Chairman was introduced to the Company by one directors to be recruited using an external search agency or open advertisement.
A5.1 New directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on All the directors were appointed when the shares in the Company joining the Board, including offering major shareholders the were not listed so limited consideration was given to devising a opportunity to meet a new non-executive director.
Prior to listing, all directors were fully briefed on their responsibilities and henceforth the Board will ensure that it regularly reviews individual training needs in relation to business operations, legal responsibilities and investor relations.
A6.1 Annual performance evaluation of Board, Committees and The current Board has been in existence for less than a year and the individual directors.
Company was only admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 7 October 2005.
The Board considered that carrying out appraisals in 2005 would be premature.
The Board will implement an evaluation programme in 2006.
C3.1 The Audit Committee membership should consist of three The current Committee membership is compliant but from independent non-executive directors.
1 January 2005 to 13 September 2005, an executive director of the Company was a member of the Committee.
C3.2 Partial compliance with the role and responsibilities of the While the Company operated an Audit Committee throughout the Audit Committee prior to listing.
year, its terms of reference have been amended to ensure full compliance in 2006.
C3.4 The Audit Committee should review arrangements by which The Company has recently introduced a whistleblowing policy and staff may raise concerns in confidence.
process, which the Committee will shortly review.
34 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Dialogue with shareholders Board of Directors The Board attaches great importance to dialogue with its The Board currently comprises seven directors, made up of four nonshareholders.
The Chairman intends to maintain regular contact with executive and three executive directors.
The non-executive directors major shareholders and ensure that the Board is apprised of their are all independent of management and contribute independent views.
The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer also judgement and extensive knowledge and experience to the meet with major institutional shareholders and fund managers, and proceedings of the Board.
The executive directors are responsible keep the Board informed about their views through board reports and for the management of the groups activities.
Michael Press is the senior copies of brokers notes.
The Board takes the view that, by these independent director.
The Chairman and Kjell Almskog were appointed means, it receives a sufficiently frequent and clear impression of the to the Board during the year and Amjad Bseisu, Robin Pinchbeck and views of shareholders.
Michael Press, as senior independent director, Mike Stacey stepped down from the Board prior to listing.
is available to discuss issues with shareholders.
Prior to admission to Brief biographies of the directors appear on pages 32 and 33. the London Stock Exchange, the Company appointed an individual Ayman Asfari, Keith Roberts and Maroun Semaan, being the longest to take responsibility for investor relations.
serving directors, will offer themselves for election at this years annual general meeting.
Henceforth, all directors must submit themselves for Interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital which have been election at the annual general meeting following their appointment and, notified to the Company, in accordance with the Articles of thereafter, for re-election at least once every three years.
Association of the Company as at 1 March 2006 were as follows: During the year the Board met five times and the current intention is Number of Percentage that henceforth the Board should meet six times a year and ordinary of allotted additionally as required.
shares share capital Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited 31,830,488 9.22% The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved to itself for Alima Trust 21,355,157 6.19% decision, including, but not limited to, matters of a strategic nature: approval of the annual budget: approval of major acquisitions: major In addition to the shareholdings above, Ayman Asfari and his family changes to the groups capital structure: the recommendation or holds an interest in 69,282,114 shares through the Lamia Trust declaration of dividends: the entry into contracts which are material representing 20.07% of issued share capital: and Maroun Semaan strategically or by reason of size: appointments to the Board: and his family holds an interest in 34,068,799 shares through the ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls: Nola Trust representing 9.87% of issued share capital.
Petrofac reviewing its own and its committees performance and reviewing the ESOP Trustees Limited includes interests of directors and senior groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
employees as well as other employees.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information from The Companys first annual general meeting as a public company will management to enable it to perform its duties, including reports on be used as an opportunity to provide a review of the groups progress operating and financial issues at each board meeting.
during the year and for shareholders to put questions to the directors.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
Since his Details of proxy votes for and against each resolution will be appointment in June 2005, the Chairman has met with the other nonannounced at the meeting.
executive directors on a number of occasions without the executive directors present.
It is the Boards intention to undertake its first formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors in 2006.
The Board will use the process to identify any training needs of directors.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary to the Board, who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed, and for advising the Board on governance matters.
The directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, if necessary.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 35 Corporate governance report continued Committees of the Board Attendance by the directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees are summarised below: Audit Remuneration Nominations 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2005 5 4 4 0 Executive directors Ayman Asfari 5 Keith Roberts 5 Maroun Semaan 5 Amjad Bseisu resigned 13 September 2005 4 Robin Pinchbeck resigned 13 September 2005 3 Mike Stacey resigned 13 September 2005 4 3 3 Non-executive directors Rodney Chase appointed 21 June 2005 3 Kjell Almskog appointed 25 March 2005 4 3 3 Bernard fide Combret 5 4 4 Michael Press 54 4 1 The Nominations Committee was only formed as a standing Committee following the Companys listing.
The Board is assisted by various committees, principally the Audit reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations which it considers that action or other improvement is needed Committee.
A summary of the work of the Audit Committee and the and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Nominations Committee is set out below.
The report of the Previously, the Audit Committee has tended to concentrate on the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration more traditional work of an audit committee: that is reviewing the Report on page 38.
The Committees terms of reference are available auditors terms of engagement and the scope of audit work and on the Companys website.
The minutes of meetings and or reports assessing the Companys financial statements.
The Committee is from the chairmen of the committees are made available to the Board currently considering how best to undertake a systematic review of for its scheduled meeting next following the committee meeting in the Companys controls and risk management processes and is question, or otherwise as soon as practicable thereafter.
working with the recently appointed Group Head of Internal Audit to Audit Committee establish a suitable framework to achieve this.
It is anticipated that The Audit Committee is chaired by Bernard fide Combret and also the group internal audit function will be strengthened further during the course of 2006.
Although the Company has previously taken comprises Kjell Almskog and Michael Press.
Kjell Almskog was appointed during the year and Mike Stacey stepped down on his steps to ensure that auditor independence is maintained when it has appointed its external auditors to undertake non-audit work, the resignation from the Board.
Both Bernard fide Combret and Kjell Almskog have recent and relevant financial experience.
In 2005, the Committee intends to adopt a formal policy in 2006 on the procurement of non-audit work from the auditors.
The Committee will Committee met four times.
The Committees principal roles and responsibilities include: meet sufficiently often in 2006 in order to fulfil its responsibilities and in any event will meet no less than three times.
monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements Attendance at Committee meetings is at the invitation of the and its interim and preliminary announcements: Chairman of the Committee.
However, the Chief Financial Officer, reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and risk Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and the management system: external auditors will generally be invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: have the right to speak directly to the Chairman of the Committee at any time and will be given the opportunity to meet the Committee reviewing the terms of engagement, objectivity and without management present at least once a year.
independence of the external auditors and to recommend to the Board of Directors their appointment, re-appointment or removal: establishing and monitoring a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and, 36 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Nominations Committee Risk management The Nominations Committee was formed during the year and is Each division is required to produce a risk matrix which identifies the chaired by Rodney Chase and also comprises Kjell Almskog, Bernard key business risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their fide Combret, Michael Press and Ayman Asfari.
The Committee will impact if they do occur and the actions being taken in order to meet at least twice a year to review the structure of the Board and, manage those risks.
The Board receives regular formal updates from as appropriate, consider candidates for appointment to the Board.
management on the key risks and the related controls in relation to Prior to the Committees formation, the Board created ad hoc the groups existing business and if appropriate, on potential new Committees to consider issues, which would ordinarily fall within the business.
Management also thoroughly considers risks associated remit of a Nominations Committee: one such Committee considered with undertaking new business via divisional and group risk review the appointments of Kjell Almskog and Rodney Chase.
search consultancy was appointed for the recruitment of Kjell Almskog.
Rodney Chase was introduced to the Company by an Assurances adviser.
The Board considered him to be an exceptionally qualified The directors receive assurances from the following internal and candidate and saw no merit in undertaking a fullscale search process.
external controls: Audit and accountability historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the groups system year with significant variances are regularly reported by of financial and operational controls and monitoring their management to the Board: effectiveness.
The groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business reports from the Audit Committee: objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
client audits: An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating external audits including management letters from the groups and managing the significant risks faced by the group, which has auditors: been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Report.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and reports from the group health, safety, security, environment and is in accordance with the guidance provided by the Turnbull quality function: and, Committee on internal control.
The key elements of the internal control system and the processes used by the Board to review the reports from the Group Internal Audit function.
effectiveness of the system are detailed below: Going concern Control environment The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern The group has a clear organisational structure for the control and basis since the directors have reasonable expectation that, firstly, the monitoring of its businesses, including defined lines of responsibility Companys and groups activities are sustainable and, secondly, that and delegation of authority.
The group has issued a group policy in adequate resources are available to continue in operational existence relation to standards of business conduct which includes provisions for the foreseeable future.
to ensure that staff may raise ethical concerns in confidence.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 37
