28 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance This statement describes how the Company has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 which have been incorporated in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Statement of application of the Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanations of how the Principles have been applied are set out below and, in connection with directors service contracts, in the Remuneration report.
The Board For the period under review and to date, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, three other executive directors and a further four non-executive directors.
Dan David served as Chairman until 1 February 2005 when he retired from this position, then being appointed Life President and continuing as a non-executive director.
Vernon Sankey, previously Deputy Chairman, was appointed Chairman on that date.
David Scotland, a non-executive director, resigned from the Board on 1 June 2005 and was replaced by Hugo Swire who was appointed with effect from that date.
The Chairman has the overall responsibility for managing the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibilities for strategy, operations and results.
Clear division of responsibility exists such that no one individual or group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision-making process.
The Company readily acknowledges that certain non-executive directors Dan David, Sir Patrick McNair-Wilson and Francis Wahl are considered by the Combined Code not to be independent, due to a previous executive position Dan David, their business relationships with the Group Dan David and Sir Patrick McNair-Wilson or their having served on the Board for more than nine years Dan David and Francis Wahl.
However, the Company does consider that Vernon Sankey until his appointment as Chairman, David Scotland until his resignation and Hugo Swire appointed on David Scotlands resignation are independent non-executives.
Thus, the Company has had, until Vernon Sankeys appointment as Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and has three non-executive directors who are not independent, as defined by the Code.
Despite this apparent departure from the Code, the Board has recognised the contribution made by each of these non-independent non-executive directors which, in most instances, has been of greater benefit to the Group and to all shareholders due to the very factors which are deemed to make a director nonindependent including their depth of knowledge of the unique business of the Group.
The Board also believes that these directors are independent in character and judgement.
The senior independent non-executive director was Vernon Sankey until his appointment as Chairman on 1 February 2005, when David Scotland assumed the role.
Following the resignation of David Scotland on 1 June 2005 no senior independent non-executive director has been selected, pending the appointment of additional independent non-executive directors.
Sir Patrick McNair-Wilson will be retiring from the Board at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
At around that time it is intended that additional independent non-executive directors will be appointed, at least one of whom will have recent and relevant financial experience.
In the event of the appointment of a new director, the Company would ordinarily appoint someone who, it believes, has sufficient knowledge and experience to fulfil the duties of a director.
If this were not the case, an appropriate training course would be provided.
An appropriate induction programme is undertaken for all newly-appointed directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Any director, wishing to do so in furtherance of his duties, may take independent advice at the Companys expense.
All directors are required to stand for re-election, at a maximum of every three years and newly appointed directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Apart from this requirement, non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman review the performance of each executive director.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive and each non-executive director.
Following the recent appointment of a new Chairman, his effectiveness will be assessed in future years by the senior independent non-executive director in a meeting with other nonexecutive directors, without the Chairman being present.
A formalised process to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is due to be introduced within the coming year.
The Chairman meets with non-executive directors on an informal basis.
Such meetings will be formalised, going forward.
The Board usually meets five or six times a year and ad-hoc meetings are convened to deal with urgent matters.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
These include approval of the financial statements, dividend policy, major acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits, significant changes in accounting policies, the constitution of Board committees, risk management and corporate governance policy.
The Board has delegated various matters to Committees, as detailed below.
These Committees of the Board also meet regularly and deal with specific aspects of the management of the Company.
The Board has delegated authority to the Committees and they have defined terms of reference which are available on request.
Decision-making relating to operational matters is delegated to senior management.
Corporate governance Photo-Me International plc 29 Annual Report 2005 Board and Committee papers are circulated in advance of each meeting and are supplemented by reports and presentations to ensure that Board members are kept fully informed.
The Board had 5 scheduled meetings during this financial year.
The attendance of directors at those meetings and meetings of Board Committees is set out below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings held 5211 Director V Sankey 5 2 1 1 S Crasnianski 5 N A N A 1 R Costi 4 N A N A N A F Giuntini 4 N A N A N A J L Peurois 5 N A N A N A D David 4 N A N A 1 P McNair-Wilson 5 2 1 1 D Scotland 4 0 0 N A F Wahl 3 1 1 N A The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors.
Board Committees The Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors, current membership being detailed on page 24: in addition David Scotland served on the Committee until his resignation as a director.
Whilst no member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code, the members do have a broad range of experience.
As noted above, it is intended to appoint a new non-executive director who will possess the relevant qualities.
Meetings are normally held twice per year.
The Group Finance Director, representatives of the external auditors and the Internal Audit Manager are generally invited to attend meetings.
The minutes of the meetings are circulated to all directors.
The Committee meets with the external auditors, without executive directors present, at least once a year.
The Committee reviews the Groups accounting and financial reporting practices, the reports of the internal and external auditors and compliance with policies, procedures and applicable legislation.
In addition, the Committee monitors the effectiveness of both the external and internal audit functions and reviews the Groups internal financial control and risk management procedures.
It also sets a policy for safeguarding the independence of the external auditors and reviews their work outside of the audit itself.
The Audit Committee has not established a procedure by which staff may raise concerns about possible impropriorities in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
This matter will be addressed in the near future.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises only non-executive directors, current members being detailed on page 24: in addition David Scotland served on the Committee until his resignation as a director.
The Committee meets at least once per year.
The Committee makes recommendations to the full Board in respect of the Groups remuneration policy.
The Committee also keeps under review the remuneration of the Groups executive directors and senior executives to ensure that they are rewarded fairly for their contribution.
The Committee also makes awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The Remuneration report on pages 31 to 34 provides details of how the Committee applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Combined Code and explains the area of non-compliance with the Code in respect of the notice periods of some overseas service contracts.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee now consists of Vernon Sankey Committee Chairman, Serge Crasnianski, Sir Patrick McNair-Wilson and Dan David.
Dan David served as Committee Chairman whilst he was Chairman of the Company.
The Committee, which meets as required, makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new directors.
Having served for four years as Deputy Chairman, the Nomination Committee were unanimous in their recommendation of Vernon Sankey as Chairman of the Company upon the retirement of Dan David and did not consider it necessary to seek external candidates.
Vernon Sankey did not participate in this process.
The appointment of Hugo Swire was made following a personal introduction to the Committee Chairman, with the Committee taking full account of his past experience and personal achievements.
It is the Committees intention, in respect of future appointments of independent non-executive directors, to prepare a description of the role and the capabilities required and to utilise external search consultants.
Corporate governance 30 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director have regular meetings with the Companys major institutional shareholders.
The Chairman also meets with major shareholders and has contact with them, as and when required.
The senior non-executive director Vernon Sankey met with shareholders during the period.
The senior non-executive director and, where appropriate, other non-executive directors, are made available to meet with major shareholders, on request.
Any pertinent feedback arising from such meetings is reported to the Board at its regular meetings.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and have the opportunity to question the Board.
All members of the Board usually attend the Annual General Meeting.
The notice of the meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 days before the Meeting.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on each separate issue.
The number of proxy votes lodged are announced after the vote on a show of hands for each resolution.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This is effected by receiving reports from the Audit Committee following its review.
The Board is satisfied that such systems have operated adequately throughout the period.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Such a system can, however, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has in place processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks which are applicable to the business.
The Board regularly reviews these processes.
The procedures necessary to follow the Turnbull Guidance have applied during the year under review and to the date of this Report.
The Board has appointed Franois Giuntini as the director with specific responsibility for co-ordinating risk management and for reporting key risks and the risk management process to the Board.
Executive managers of individual Group companies are responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the key risks applicable to their areas of responsibility.
The risks are assessed on a regular basis.
The managers of Group companies are aware of their responsibility to operate systems of internal control which are effective and efficient for their businesses, to provide reliable financial information and to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with actual results being reported monthly and variances reviewed.
The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control is monitored by the Group Internal Audit Manager who reports directly to the Audit Committee.
A programme of visits to review operations in many Group companies has been undertaken in 200405.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined Code with the exception of those matters which have been identified and explained above, being: a majority of non-executive directors were not independent, as defined by the Code: the Remuneration and Audit Committees do not comprise only independent non-executive directors and the Nomination Committee does not contain a majority of independent non-executive directors, there is no member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience: non-executive directors are not appointed for a specified term: there is no formal procedure in place to review board effectiveness: the terms of reference of the Audit Committee need to be updated in order to comply with the new Code: there is no whistle-blowing procedure in place: some existing overseas service contracts for directors contain notice periods of more than one year.
