Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance Compliance As appropriate, and at least once a year, the Chairman calls a meeting The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance of the non-executive directors without the executive directors being and believes that, subject to certain matters specified below resulting present.
Once a year the non-executive directors meet under the from its relationship with the Arla Foods amba group, it has complied chairmanship of the senior independent director without the throughout the year with the principles and provisions of the Chairman being present.
The board undertakes a formal written Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003. evaluation exercise each year.
This reviews the performance of the board, its committees and individual officers on an anonymous basis.
The board The executive directors of Arla Foods UK plc during the year Appropriate levels of information and communication between the were R C N Davidson Chief Executive, resigned on 1 June 2005, executive and non-executive members of the board are maintained M J Gilbert appointed on 1 June 2005, N D Peet Finance Director, between meetings.
Board members have access to the advice and T J Smith Chief Executive from 1 June 2005, H Sondergaard services of the Company Secretary and are entitled, with the appointed on 1 June 2005, resigned on 22 November 2005 Chairmans approval, to take independent professional advice.
After the year end, from 7 November 2005, M J Gilbert was appointed Managing Director of the operations In October 2003, following a transaction approved by the companys division and S D Stevens Managing Director of the commercial division.
shareholders, the Arla Foods amba group acquired 51 per cent of the The non-executive directors during the year were Sir David Naish DL enlarged share capital of the company.
The companys continuing Chairman, J Bigum Deputy Chairman, P E B Cawdron Deputy relationship with Arla Foods amba is governed by a relationship Chairman, S O Modig resigned on 4 October 2005, agreement.
This contains a number of provisions relating to the K Nielsen resigned on 30 April 2005, Sir Richard Packer KCB and composition of the board, the acquisition or disposal of shares in the G C Summerfield CBE.
After the year end A Lundby and P Tuborgh company by the Arla Foods amba group and other relevant matters.
were appointed non-executive directors on 4 October 2005.
The Arla Foods amba group is entitled to appoint two executive and H Sondergaard and S D Stevens were nominated by, and J Bigum, three non-executive directors.
Consequently, although more than half A Lundby, S O Modig, K Nielsen and P Tuborgh were appointed the board are non-executive directors they are not all independent.
by, the Arla Foods amba group which holds 51 per cent of the The relationship agreement also provides that as long as the share capital of the company in accordance with the arrangements Arla Foods amba group holds 30 per cent or more of the companys set out below.
Sir David Naish, P E B Cawdron, Sir Richard Packer share capital it will not take any action that precludes or inhibits and G C Summerfield are independent of management, have no the company from carrying on its business independently, and connection with any other shareholder and are considered to exercise will conduct all transactions and relationships with the company on an independent judgement on the matters that they consider as arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis.
Sir David Naish, members of the board and its committees.
P E B Cawdron is the P E B Cawdron, Sir Richard Packer and G C Summerfield are the senior independent director.
Biographies of the directors are set out independent directors charged with ensuring compliance with the on page 22. relationship agreement on behalf of all shareholders.
The board has agreed a written statement of the respective roles of Where appropriate the board delegates matters to a committee.
The Chairman, whose time commitment The principal committees are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration to the company is reflected in his annual fee, holds the other positions Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The former Remuneration set out on page 22. and Nomination Committee was divided into two committees on 7 July 2005.
Each committee operates within agreed terms of The board meets regularly on dates agreed annually for the calendar reference, which are published on the companys website, and reports year ahead.
It is recognised that there is difficulty in finding dates on to the full board.
The board has also established a Treasury and which all the directors, whether based in the UK or in Scandinavia, Finance Committee.
During the year the full board met on eight occasions.
Certain directors were unable to attend one of the The members of the Audit Committee are P E B Cawdron Chairman, meetings as follows: J Bigum, P E B Cawdron, R C N Davidson, Sir Richard Packer and G C Summerfield.
The committee is required to S O Modig and S D Stevens.
meet at least three times a year and met on four occasions.
P E B Cawdron and G C Summerfield each missed one meeting.
The board has adopted a written procedure, a schedule of matters The committees activities are set out in the section on accountability reserved to itself for decision and a schedule of matters on which it and audit on page 24. requires written reports.
These documents are reviewed annually.
The board has endorsed the companys strategy and values, which The relationship agreement provides that the Remuneration and are shared with all staff, and approves the companys written policies.
Nomination Committees consist entirely of independent directors.
When necessary the board is assisted in its deliberations by the The membership of the Remuneration Committee is set out on companys advisers.
The boards principal role is to appoint the page 25.
The committee is required to meet at least twice a year executive directors, to agree and monitor the major strategic direction and met on six occasions.
P E B Cawdron missed two meetings and for the company, to ensure that the necessary resources are in place G C Summerfield one.
and review management performance, and to protect the interests of shareholders.
The board receives reports and proposals either from the The members of the Nomination Committee are Sir David Naish executive directors or from its own committees, and reserves to itself Chairman, P E B Cawdron, Sir Richard Packer and G C Summerfield.
for decision matters affecting the strategic direction of the company The committee is required to meet at least twice a year and met on and matters having a significant financial or compliance risk.
The two occasions, one of which P E B Cawdron missed.
The company has management is responsible for the operation of the company.
adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of directors.
The committee keeps under review the balance of board 23 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued membership and the experience and expertise of the directors.
It has objectives of the company and to ensure that there is an ongoing the power to identify and nominate candidates for appointment as process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which the directors of the company.
It is in the nature of the companys activities company is exposed, include: that it is beneficial for independent non-executive directors to understand the strategic implications arising from the Common A management structure that clearly defines authority, Agricultural Policy and to have experience of the European agrifood responsibility and accountability, including responsibility for internal industry at the most senior levels, and although the committee makes financial control: use of an external search consultancy it therefore also relies on industry knowledge in considering candidates.
The committee also A well-established budgeting and reporting function, with budgets approves candidates for the two posts of executive director nominated and results reviewed at a senior level within the group to provide a by the Arla Foods amba group.
Following their appointment to the timely and regular monitoring of performance: board, directors are encouraged to maintain their skills and expertise and appropriate training is provided as necessary.
All directors are An investment evaluation process to ensure board approval for all required to submit themselves for reappointment at the next major capital expenditure commitments.
Annual General Meeting following their appointment, and at regular meetings thereafter.
At least one third of the board, by rotation, The Treasury and Finance Committee reports through the Finance submit themselves for reappointment each year.
The Audit Committee reviews the interim and annual financial statements together with other financial information Shareholders prepared for compliance purposes and assesses the effectiveness of The companys brokers keep the board informed of the views of the the companys financial controls.
It has particular regard to major investment community.
The Chairman, and where appropriate the judgemental areas.
In discharging its duties the committee meets Chairman of the Remuneration Committee or other non-executive regularly with and receives reports from the companys senior financial directors, maintain contact through the brokers with major officers and its external auditors.
The committee also meets without shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director hold regular any company employee being present.
The internal audit function has meetings with institutional shareholders to ensure that the companys an agreed programme which is approved annually by the Audit strategy and objectives are widely understood.
The full board normally Committee.
Internal audit reports regularly on the results of its work attends the Annual General Meeting, which is intended to provide a to the executive management and to the Audit Committee.
similar opportunity for private investors.
The company indicates the level The committee regularly reviews the relationship between the of proxy votes cast on each resolution at the Annual General Meeting company and its external auditors, defines in what circumstances and publishes this on its website.
Both institutions and private investors non-audit services may be supplied by the auditors and obtains also contact the company from time to time as issues of interest arise.
appropriate evidence in respect of the continuing independence of the auditors.
In general, the non-audit work provided by the auditors P E B Cawdron, as the senior independent director, is available to is in related areas such as corporate finance and tax advice.
Where shareholders in the event that the normal channels of communication appropriate, non-audit work is put out to competitive tender.
Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each Accountability and audit financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs The board recognises its responsibilities for the groups system of of the company, of the group and of the profit and loss account internal control, including internal financial control, and for reviewing for that period.
In preparing these accounts the directors consider its effectiveness.
Such a system can only manage, rather than that they have selected suitable accounting policies and applied eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can them consistently, have made judgements and estimates that are provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material reasonable and prudent, and have followed applicable accounting misstatement or loss.
The responsibilities of the groups external auditors in connection with the accounts are set out in the independent The board maintains procedures for identifying the significant risks auditors report.
faced by the group and for reviewing the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
These systems include a continuing Having made appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that the assessment of the operational, financial and compliance risks inherent company and the group have adequate resources to continue in in the companys activities.
The board has approved an appropriate operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they level of procedure for control and for internal reporting of each have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
identified risk, in appropriate cases using external advisers, and reviews these systems half-yearly.
The board receives more frequent reports The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group keeps proper on the risks perceived as being of greatest significance to the accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time company.
These procedures, which comply with the guidance the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that prepared by the Turnbull working group, have been in place the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors throughout the year and up to the date of signing of the accounts.
are responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets The principal elements of the system of internal financial control, of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
which is designed to recognise the special characteristics and business 24
