REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The full terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
As at 1st April 2004 the members of this committee were Sir Nigel Rudd, Stuart Chambers, William Harrison, James Leng, ACTIVITIES Oliver Stocken and Christine Morin-Postel.
During the year under review the committee had five meetings There have been no changes in the membership of the committee and all persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended all during the period from 1st April 2004 to 26th May 2005. meetings with the exception of Oliver Stocken, who was not present During the year under review Sir Nigel Rudd acted as chairman at one meeting.
Its major activity has been the search for a successor 6 of the committee, John McKenna acted as secretary until 31st July to fill the vacancy arising on the retirement of William Harrison 2004 and Sheila Lennon acted as secretary from 1st August 2004. as a non-executive director, using the services of an external search consultant.
RESPONSIBILITIES During the year under review the committee considered proposals The committees responsibilities include: for the refreshing of the membership of the board and also made recommendations to the board as to the re-election by the reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board shareholders of Iain Lough, Pat Zito and Oliver Stocken, who together with proposals for refreshing its membership: are retiring by rotation.
nominating candidates for the board as executive and non-executive directors: ensuring an appropriate induction programme is in place for any appointee: undertaking an annual performance evaluation to ensure all members of the board have devoted sufficient time to their duties: and making recommendations to the board concerning the re-election Sir Nigel Rudd by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation Chairman, Nomination Committee provisions in the companys Articles of Association.
26th May 2005 PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP reviewing with the external auditors the nature and scope of their planned work: As at 1st April 2004 the members of this committee were: reviewing the Groups financial statements at the half year and Oliver Stocken annually before submission to the board: Appointed to the committee and appointed chairman on 11th September 1998.
Chartered accountant, former finance director of Barclays reviewing changes in accounting policies: and PLC and currently non-executive deputy chairman of 3i Group plc.
reviewing the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity Sir Nigel Rudd of the external auditors.
7 Appointed to the committee on 1st August 1994.
Chartered The full terms of reference of the committee are available on the accountant, former chairman of Williams Holdings PLC and companys website.
currently non-executive chairman of Boots Group PLC.
William Harrison ACTIVITIES Appointed to the committee on 11th September 1998.
Investment During the year under review the committee had five meetings, and banker.
Chairman of the UK Advisory Board of ING Wholesale all persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended all Banking.
meetings with the exception of Oliver Stocken, who was not present James Leng at one meeting.
One of these meetings involved a discussion with Appointed to the committee on 11th September 1998.
Former chief the external auditors without management being present.
executive officer of Laporte Industries PLC and currently nonThe group chief executive, finance director, other directors and chief executive chairman of Corus Group plc.
internal auditor attended and reported as appropriate.
Christine Morin-Postel The external auditors attended all meetings of the committee.
Appointed to the committee on 1st August 2003.
Former chief executive officer of Socit Gnrale fide Belgique and currently a In addition to reviewing the internal audit reports and the Groups member of the supervisory board of N. V. Koninklijke Nederland financial statements, the committee considered the following Petroleum Maatschappij Royal Dutch Petroleum Company.
matters: The board believes that all the members of the committee have International Financial Reporting Standards and the Groups recent and relevant financial experience.
programme relating to their adoption: There have been no changes in the membership of the committee Accounting treatment for defined benefit arrangements under during the period from 1st April 2004 to 26th May 2005.
FRS 17: During the year under review Oliver Stocken acted as chairman Audit Committee performance evaluation: of the committee, John McKenna acted as secretary until 31st July Engagement letters with the external auditors: 2004 and Sheila Lennon acted as secretary from 1st August 2004.
The Group audit fee: and RESPONSIBILITIES The revised Group internal audit charter.
The committees responsibilities include: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting and internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks: Oliver Stocken agreeing the nature and scope of the internal audit programme, Chairman, Audit Committee and reviewing internal audit reports: 26th May 2005 PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
