CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the year the company has complied with the provisions The board is satisfied that the chairman and each non-executive set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate director is able to devote the amount of time required to attend to Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council the companys affairs.
in June 2003, which is appended to the Listing Rules of The chairmans principal commitments outside the company as the Financial Services Authority, except for the Chairmans at 1st April 2004 were the non-executive chairmanships of Boots membership of the Remuneration Committee.
This statement, Group PLC and Pendragon PLC, a non-executive directorship of together with the Report on Directors Remuneration, describes Barclays PLC and the chairmanship of the Boardroom Issues the way in which the principles and practices of the Code Group of the Confederation of British Industry.
During the year are applied within the Group.
3 under review the chairman has become the deputy chairman of Barclays PLC.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS During the year the board had eight meetings, and all persons, who At 31st March 2005 the board consisted of a non-executive were directors at the relevant time, attended all meetings with the chairman, group chief executive, two other executive directors and exception of Oliver Stocken, who was not present at one meeting.
It meets regularly throughout the year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The BOARD COMMITTEES board directs and controls the Group and is responsible for strategy, Certain matters are delegated by the board, under written terms operating performance, maintaining an effective system of internal of reference, to the following committees: control, recommending the dividend, approving major changes in the Groups organisation, approving the most senior appointments in Executive Board.
The Executive Board consists of the executive the Group, approving capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals directors under the chairmanship of Stuart Chambers and for amounts above predetermined limits, ensuring compliance with formulates policy and strategy for the boards approval.
It is legal requirements and ensuring the Group has in place appropriate responsible for ensuring that the policies of the board are policies.
All directors receive regular information on the Groups carried out on a Group-wide basis.
It is also responsible for operational and financial performance, risk management, business the development of annual budgets and operating plans linked plans, future strategy and executive management.
All directors have to the management and control of the day-to-day operations of access to the company secretary and, to enable the board to discharge the Group, including the monitoring of performance against its duties, have full access to management and financial information.
It approves capital expenditure up to Any director who, in furtherance of his or her duties, wishes to take pre-determined limits set by the board and monitors key research external advice, may do so at the expense of the company.
and development programmes and the operation of technology licences to and from the Group.
It formulates and reviews senior The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Groups management succession plans, is responsible for the overall pension schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share option or direction of the development of the Groups management other incentive schemes.
The board considers all four non-executive resources and approves the terms and conditions of employment directors to be independent as they are independent of the Groups of the senior management.
executive management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise During the year the Executive Board had 11 meetings, and of independent judgement.
all persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended all meetings.
Oliver Stocken is the senior independent director.
The membership, responsibilities and The Nomination Committee nominates candidates for the board activities of this committee are detailed in the Audit Committee as executive and non-executive directors.
During the year this committee had five meetings, and are used to assist in this process.
all persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended all All directors seek election to the board at the annual general meetings with the exception of Oliver Stocken, who was not meeting following their appointment and thereafter seek re-election present at one meeting.
by rotation at least once every three years.
Every director receives Remuneration Committee.
The membership, responsibilities appropriate training and business familiarisation as required on and activities of this committee are detailed in the Report on appointment to the board, and subsequently as necessary.
The terms of reference of the committee For the year under review a board performance evaluation include the approval and review of the remuneration packages of exercise was undertaken and performance evaluations have been approximately 30 of the most senior managers in the Group in undertaken in respect of the Executive Board, the Audit Committee, addition to the approval of the remuneration packages of the the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Given this broader remit, the committee The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, benefited from the chairmans knowledge based on his wider have reviewed the performance of the chairman, the chairman has roles and responsibilities, and accordingly the chairman continued reviewed the performance of the group chief executive and the nonto be a member of this committee during the year.
However, executive directors, and the group chief executive has reviewed the having provided the initial advice, the chairman has since stepped performance of the other executive directors.
During the year this committee had PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED five meetings, and all persons, who were members at the relevant THE MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL time, attended all meetings with the exception of William Harrison and Oliver Stocken, who were not present at one meeting.
The board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Nomination Committee.
The membership, responsibilities internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that and activities of this committee are detailed in the Nomination such a review has taken place during the year.
The system of internal Committee Report.
During the year this committee had five control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of meetings and all persons, who were members at the relevant failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only time, attended all meetings with the exception of Oliver Stocken reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material 4 who was not present at one meeting.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, The terms of reference of the Executive Board, the Audit including operational and compliance risks and this is supported Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination by effective controls, policies and procedures.
The risk management Committee are available on the companys website at process has been in place for the year under review and up to the www.
date of approval of the Directors Report and Accounts.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Management has responsibility for the identification and evaluation The boards Report on Directors Remuneration is contained on of significant risks applicable to their area of business, together pages 8 to 16 and details the remuneration policy and particulars with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
The risks of the remuneration of each director.
A significant proportion of are assessed by the business management teams on a continual the remuneration of the executive directors is linked to corporate basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and external and individual performance.
sources including production breakdowns, disruption in information systems, actions of competitors, natural catastrophe and regulatory RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS requirements.
Where appropriate the risk management process will include the use of insurance.
Meetings with principal institutional investors are held on a regular basis and feedback from these meetings is circulated to all directors.
Internal control is also reinforced by the Code of Conduct, approved In addition the chairman and the senior independent director hold an by the board.
This code, which has provided practical guidance annual meeting with the principal institutional investors, and a for all staff since it was drawn up in 1995, was updated in 2002 to number of the non-executive directors attend the brokers and present a more outward looking view of the Group and to recognise analysts presentation meetings in respect of the interim and final more clearly its social responsibility.
As part of the induction process for a new non-executive director, the major institutional shareholders are invited to meet During the year the Audit Committee of the board: such director.
reviews the external and internal audit work plans: There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question receives and reviews a schedule of Group risks and how they directors at the annual general meeting and to discuss any issues are being managed, built up from information filtered through on an informal basis at the conclusion of that meeting.
Shareholders the organisation: and can communicate directly with individual directors and the company secretary during the year.
In addition, a website containing published considers reports from management and internal audit on the information, including a briefing for investors, presentations to system of internal control, including any material control analysts and press releases can be found at www.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of AUDITORS meetings to the board and the board receives the minutes of all The Audit Committee keeps under review the independence and Audit Committee meetings.
objectivity of the external auditors.
Under the procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors, the In addition, the Group has in place a system of control selfapproval of the chairman of the Audit Committee is required prior certification and hierarchical reporting which provides for a to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external auditors documented and auditable trail of accountability against the internal in excess of a specified amount.
Where appropriate, non-audit work control policies and procedures, including the Code of Conduct.
is put out to competitive tender.
The current major area of non-audit These procedures are relevant across all Group operations and services provided by the external auditors is taxation services and provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher services in relation to corporate transactions.
Further details of the levels of management and finally to the board.
This process is non-audit services provided by the external auditors are set out in facilitated by internal audit who also provide a degree of assurance note 6 to the financial statements on page 28. as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the The group chief executive also reports to the board on behalf of actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory the Executive Board on significant changes in the business and the requirements and best practice designed to ensure their external environment, which affect the risk profile of the Group.
independence from the company, including the periodic rotation The finance director provides the board with monthly information, of key partners.
which includes key results and performance indicators.
Where areas PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
