Operating Review Investor Relations Report Premier Farnell is committed to establishing a frequent and open Shareholder base dialogue with the investment community.
The senior management The concentration of the register was largely unchanged over the year team, in particular John Hirst, Group Chief Executive, Andrew Fisher, with the top 20 shareholders in aggregate continuing to account for just Group Finance Director, and James Garthwaite, Group Director, less than two thirds of the register.
Communications, devote considerable time to ensuring that Premier The market for Premier Farnells shares remains very liquid: during the Farnells strategy, businesses and markets are well understood and that the Company is fairly valued by the market.
year ended 30th January 2005, the average daily trading volume in Premier Farnells ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange was To ensure a consistent information flow Premier Farnell communicates 4.2 million shares.
This represents a year on year rise of 24 per cent.
with financial audiences by means of results presentations, meetings, site Closure of the American Depositary Receipt ADR programme visits, conference calls and its corporate web site, which is updated daily.
and fide-registration from the SEC Quarterly reporting During the financial year, the Board undertook a review of the cost and Premier Farnell has reported its results quarterly since 1999 to ensure the benefits of Premier Farnells listing on The New York Stock Exchange and market is informed of progress in a regular and timely manner.
its registration with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
First quarter and third quarter announcements: the day we announce It concluded that the expense of complying with US reporting and our first and third quarter results, we host a conference call for US and registration obligations was out of proportion to the benefits derived by European investors.
Recordings of these calls are also made accessible, the Company.
In December, it therefore announced the closure of the via audio webcasts, on the Groups web site.
Groups ADR programmes with The Bank of New York for both ordinary and preference shares.
The ADR programmes were closed and Interim second quarter and preliminary fourth quarter and full year Premier Farnell was fide-listed from the New York Stock Exchange on announcements: presentations for investors and broking analysts are 16th February 2005. held in London on the mornings that the Groups interim and preliminary results are announced.
These are typically attended by over 50 analysts In addition, the Board intends to terminate the Companys reporting and investment managers.
In addition, the Group hosts a conference call obligations under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by on the afternoon of the results to ensure that US investors have the fide-registering from the SEC.
Further details regarding this intention are opportunity to interact directly with senior management: many UK set out in Shareholder Information on page 68. investors also participate.
Webcasts of the presentation and conference calls are made available later the same day on the Groups web site.
Feedback The Group welcomes feedback on all aspects of its investor relations Investor meetings activities.
Enquiries should be directed to James Garthwaite, Group Immediately after the announcement of interim and preliminary results, Director, Communications, jgarthwaite@premierfarnell.
the Group conducts a programme of investor meetings.
During the financial year ended 30th January 2005, over 120 one-to-one meetings were held with investors and potential investors in London, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Paris and in North America.
Investor days The Group regularly hosts investor days.
During the year the Group hosted five visits which were attended by a total of 21 institutional investors and analysts.
Analyst coverage As at 30th January 2005, Premier Farnell was actively covered by 15 sell-side analysts.
During the year, the senior management team presented at three investor conferences hosted by leading banks.
In addition, the team regularly presents to the equity sales teams of such institutions.
Annual Report Premier Farnells Annual Report is posted in May in preparation for the Annual General Meeting, this year to be held on 14th June at the Mayfair Conference Centre in London.
Last year, Premier Farnells Annual Report 2004 won three of  Yorkshire Annual Report Awards for best social reporting, best larger quoted company and best overall Annual Report.
Online communications Premier Farnell maintains a web site to provide up-to-date information on the Company for the investment community: www.
This includes comprehensive background on the Group, its Board, corporate governance, businesses and strategy.
Premier Farnell regularly issues news releases announcing important developments around its businesses.
These are all distributed via an email alert service with which investors are encouraged to register.
The web site also provides an archive of news announcements and financial publications.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31
