Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance performance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access which every throughout the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board has adopted a number of corporate governance policies, issued in July 2003 are applied by the Company.
including a Group Code of Ethics covering issues such as conflicts of The Board confirms that the Company has complied with all of the interest, fraud, whistleblowing and share dealing.
A copy of the Code is provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the also available on the Companys web site.
The Company has implemented year apart from the Chairman discussing governance and strategy with arrangements with an independent organisation to receive information major shareholders and the attendance of other Non-Executive Directors from employees for whistleblowing purposes.
at meetings with major shareholders.
This point is explained below.
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to Directors discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, four Non-Executive relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent, comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and three Executive Directors.
John Roques is the Companys Senior and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
In addition, Independent Non-Executive Director and is available to shareholders if individual Directors meet with senior management and are encouraged to they have concerns which contact through the normal channels cannot make periodic site visits, including overseas where appropriate.
Senior resolve or where the normal channels are inappropriate.
managers are regularly invited to Board meetings and make business presentations.
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 32.
These indicate the high level and broad range of experience that they possess.
The A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place for new Directors knowledge of the Groups business and of legal, accounting Directors.
This includes presentations from management and site visits.
and market developments is frequently updated by presentations made During the year a performance evaluation was carried out covering the at Board and Board Committee meetings.
Board, each of the principal Board Committees and individual Directors.
The appointment letters for Non-Executive Directors include the time The evaluation process consisted of the completion by each Director of a commitment expected of Non-Executive Directors and confirmation questionnaire devised for the purpose.
The responses were collated by that they have sufficient time available to meet this commitment.
The results were considered by the Chairmen of Non-Executive Directors are required to inform the Board of any the Board and the relevant Committees and by the Board as a whole.
The changes to their other appointments.
evaluation of individual Directors was considered by the Chairman and the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was considered by the After the date of his appointment to the Board, Sir Peter Gershon Senior Independent Director.
In each case, appropriate action was taken became Chairman of Symbian Software Limited and a member of during the year.
BT plcs European Advisory Board.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions The Board of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also Group through the development of a strategy designed to create require that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every shareholder value.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis three years.
and exercises control over the performance of each operating company within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring Remuneration performance against those targets.
The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys executive management of the Groups business while the Chairman, who remuneration policy also appear in the Remuneration Report.
has no executive management responsibilities, runs the Board.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at full The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations where required.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, the recommendations have a direct bearing on his own remuneration including major capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals package.
The details of each Executive Directors individual package are and treasury policy.
In certain areas, specific responsibility is delegated to fixed by the Remuneration Committee in line with the policy adopted by committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees have, respectively, five and four Nominations Committee scheduled meetings each year, although additional meetings may be held The Nominations Committee, comprising the Chairman, the Senior where required.
The Nominations Committee meets as required.
Independent Director and Mr Lester, meets as necessary.
During the year, all Directors attended the five Board meetings that were The Committees principal function is to provide advice and held, apart from Sir Robert Horton and Michael Lester, who were each recommendations to the Board on any appointments to the Board.
All of the members of the respective committees The Committee also keeps the composition and balance of the Board attended the five Audit Committee and five Remuneration Committee under review.
meetings that were held, except for one meeting each of the Audit and During the year the Committee was involved in the appointment of Remuneration Committees that Mr Lester was unable to attend.
Sir Peter Gershon to the Board and his subsequent appointment as Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration Chairman.
As well as making recommendations to the Board as a whole, and Nominations Committees are available on the Companys web site at Committee members consulted Non-Executive and Executive Directors www.
The membership of the Committees appears individually on these appointments.
Sir Peters other commitments on page 32. appear in his biography on page 32.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense if necessary in the Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 Corporate Governance continued Audit and internal control In addition to this process, businesses are subject to: The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the a quarterly, comprehensive review by the executive team Groups financial and other systems and controls and its financial reporting procedures.
In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives and independent internal and external audits which focus on areas of high reviews work carried out by the Internal and External Auditors and their risk which are reported to the executive team and the Audit Committee findings.
The Companys Internal Audit department works to an annual programme developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as an extensive budget and target-setting process covering specific matters arising during the year.
a monthly reporting and forecasting process reviewing performance The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the against agreed objectives Companys web site.
In addition, and following a recommendation from appropriate delegated authority levels which prescribe the limits to the Smith Report, the Committee has also adopted and implemented a which the Group can be committed Group-wide policy restricting the appointment of former employees of the external auditors.
established financial policies and procedures, including a detailed quarterly checklist completed as part of the Companys quarterly The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the financial reporting process internal and external audit functions under review.
This now includes an annual review of the effectiveness of the External Auditors, including their other risk management policies and procedures such as health and quality control procedures.
During the year an independent review of the safety, environmental and quality assurance.
Internal Audit function was carried out by Deloitte & Touche and the results reported to the Committee.
These were regarded by the An executive management committee, the Disclosure and Risk Committee as very satisfactory.
Committee, monitors and reviews disclosure and risk management processes and reports to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee The independence and objectivity of the External Auditors is also considers these reports, alongside other reports from the Internal Audit considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of department and the External Auditors, to arrive at a balanced non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year to assessment of control effectiveness across the Group.
The Disclosure 30th January 2005 and information on the nature of the non-audit fees and Risk Committee also reviews disclosures made by the Company to incurred appear in note 5 to the Financial Statements.
The non-audit fees regulators and the investment community before they are considered by were paid in respect of assurance work including taxation and are the Board.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities and considered by the Committee not to affect the independence or all Board members receive copies of the minutes of Audit Committee objectivity of the auditors.
The External Auditors appointment is subject to review every two years The statement of the Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts by the Committee and the lead audit partner is rotated at least every appears on page 34. five years.
The Committee also maintains a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors, which is reviewed each year.
This Going concern policy prohibits the provision of certain services and requires that others After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that are subject to prior approval by the Committee or its Chairman.
This the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in policy allows specific tax compliance services within defined monetary operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they limits to be pre-approved by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
All other permitted non-audit services are considered on a case by case Communication with stakeholders basis.
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with At each of its meetings, the Committee is provided with information on its stakeholders.
all non-audit services provided by the Auditors and the estimated cost There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well of such services.
The Committee monitors such costs, in the context of as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
In 1999 the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the value of non-audit the Company introduced quarterly financial reporting in order to improve services does not increase to a level where it has the potential to affect the level of information available to all shareholders.
All Company the Auditors objectivity and independence.
announcements are published on the Companys web site, together with The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of independence presentation materials.
The Board regards the discussion of the Companys strategy as primarily Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the part of the role of the Chief Executive and this forms part of his regular applicable provisions on internal control contained in the Combined Code.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board, both by the Group Director, Communications The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal and by the Companys financial public relations advisers.
The Board also controls and risk management.
The Audit Committee reviews and regularly receives copies of analysts reports on the Company.
monitors the systems effectiveness on behalf of the Board at least annually, while responsibility for the system rests with the Executive The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy Directors.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, and governance matters.
While other Non-Executive Directors do not evaluating and managing significant business risks.
However, any system ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if this was requested by shareholders.
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives.
All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which the Group Chief Executive The Board regularly reviews the Groups strategic direction.
At the makes a business presentation summarising the progress of the Group business unit level, strategic objectives, annual plans and performance during the year.
All Directors are usually available to take questions at the targets are set by the executive team in the context of the Groups overall meeting.
There is a defined process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group.
As discussed in the Directors Report, employee communication is given high priority.
This has included the establishment of European and UK Works Councils.
The UK Works Council was established in accordance with the Information and Consultation of Employees Regulations 2004.
36 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
