Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board recognises the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity.
The Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
Compliance statement This report set out on pages 30 to 37 describes how the Group has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
In respect of the period from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2005, the Board considers that the Group has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
The Board Board structure The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors.
In accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals, David Kappler and Robert Schoeld, have been appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive respectively.
David Felwick has been appointed the senior independent director.
The Board considers that all the non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement and within the denition of this term in the Combined Code.
The Combined Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such as marketing, customer and consumer focus, corporate finance, general finance and corporate governance.
They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations.
Directors and their interests The following directors held ofce during the year ended 31 December 2005: Designation Appointed Resigned David Kappler, Chairman 19 July 2004 Robert Schoeld, Chief Executive 22 June 2004 Paul Thomas, Finance Director 22 June 2004 David Felwick CBE, senior independent director 19 July 2004 Sharon Hintze, non-executive director 19 July 2004 Lyndon Lea, non-executive director 22 June 2004 26 May 2005 Ian McHoul, non-executive director 19 July 2004 Ian Ramsay, non-executive director 19 July 2004 George Sewell, non-executive director 19 July 2004 26 May 2005 Details of the directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 42 to 44.
Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Group and has an agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which includes setting long-term strategic and commercial objectives, approval of annual operating and capital budgets, dividend policy, overseeing the Groups internal control systems and ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board normally meets at least six times in each calendar year and also meets on other occasions as necessary.
Meetings are usually held at the Companys head ofce, in St Albans, but the meetings also provide an opportunity for the Board as a whole to visit the Groups operating facilities.
Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings and the attendance at those meetings is set out on page 31.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board, and sets the agendas in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Board papers, including copies of the minutes of Committee meetings held since the previous Board meeting, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the executive management of the Group and for implementing Board strategy and policy within the approved budgets and timescales.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Finance Director and Operations Board, which consists of the senior executives who head up the Groups principal operations.
The Chairman, David Kappler, is currently a non-executive director of HMV Group plc, Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc and Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
The Board of Premier Foods plc is satisfied that these appointments do not conict with the Chairmans ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
The biographies of the directors and members of the senior management team appear on pages 26 and 27.
Procedures are in place which allow directors to take independent professional advice in the course of their duties, and all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and where a director has a concern over any unresolved business he is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Should he later resign over this issue, the Chairman will bring it to the attention of the Board.
The company purchases directors and ofcers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and ofcers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings 30 Premier Foods plc Meetings The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees and individual attendances thereat during the financial year to 31 December 2005.
In addition to the meetings detailed below, ad hoc Committees of the Board are convened for specic purposes from time to time.
Group Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Number of meetings held 75 2 5 David Kappler 7 3 2 4 Robert Schoeld 7 2 1 2 Paul Thomas 7 2 1 5 David Felwick CBE 65 2 4 Sharon Hintze 64 1 3 Ian McHoul 72 2 5 Ian Ramsay 65 2 1 Both Mr Lyndon Lea and Mr George Sewell who resigned on 26 May 2005 attended one Board meeting and one meeting of each of the Committees during 2005.
Directors interests in contracts No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of signicance, other than a service contract see directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 44, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Remuneration The remuneration report, providing a statement on the Companys policy on directors and senior managers remuneration, benets, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements is set out on pages 38 to 44.
The remuneration report sets out the status of the Companys compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code with regard to remuneration matters.
Reappointment The Companys Articles of Association require directors appointed by the Board during the year to retire and, if agreed, offer themselves for reappointment at the first AGM following their appointment.
There is also a process of rotation which ensures that no director holds ofce for more than three years without being reappointed at an Annual General Meeting AGM and also that at least one-third of directors will be required to retire and seek reappointment at each subsequent AGM.
Consequently David Kappler, Sharon Hintze and Ian Ramsay offer themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 11 May 2006.
The Nomination Committee has formally reviewed the performance, contribution and commitment of each of the above named directors retiring by rotation and has recommended their appointment to the Board.
Board Committees The Board has established an effective Committee structure to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of these Committees comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and are available for inspection on the Companys website, www.
Audit Committee Ian McHoul chairs the Audit Committee.
Its other members are David Felwick and Sharon Hintze, who replaced George Sewell after his resignation on 26 May 2005.
Only independent non-executive directors who have no links with external auditors may serve on the Committee.
One member of the Committee, Ian McHoul, has been identied by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least four times a year and will meet the internal and external auditors at least twice a year without the executive directors present.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and their remuneration, for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the interim and annual accounts and reviewing the scope and findings of the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its obligations under the Combined Code in areas of risk management and internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and that an effective system of internal financial and non-financial controls is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts remains with the Board.
The Committee will keep under review the external auditors independence including any non-audit services that are to be provided by the external auditors.
The auditors are also requested to confirm their independence at least annually.
A formal policy has been developed and implemented, which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy incorporates a fee limit, above which a formal tender process must be undertaken and approval of the Committee obtained prior to any proposed appointment.
Additionally, the use of delegated authorities to appoint the external auditors is routinely reported to the Committee.
31 Premier Foods plc Corporate governance The Audit Committee will also monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit department and ensure that it is adequately resourced to perform its duties.
The Committee has approved a formal Whistle-blowing policy whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible malpractice or wrongdoings by the Company or any of its employees without fear of reprisal.
This includes arrangements to investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Felwick.
The other members of the Committee are Sharon Hintze and Ian Ramsay.
Only independent, non-executive directors may serve on the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet at least twice a year.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on remuneration of executive directors and senior managers and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the executive directors of the Company and such members of senior management as it is delegated to consider, including pension rights: any compensation payments: and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 44.
The directors remuneration report sets out the status of the Companys compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code with regard to remuneration matters and includes a statement on the Companys policy on directors and senior managers remuneration, benets, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements set out on pages 38 to 44.
A resolution to approve the directors remuneration report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Kappler, and its other members are Ian McHoul, David Felwick and Ian Ramsay.
David Kappler will not chair the Committee when it is dealing with a successor to the Chairmanship of the Company.
The Committee, which will normally meet not less than twice a year, has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
During 2005, the Nomination Committee established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent.
This process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing directors, to assess which of the potential shortlisted candidates would most benefit the balance of the Board having regard also to the need for succession planning.
The terms of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
Performance and effectiveness reviews In 2005, the Board introduced a system of performance evaluation of itself and its Committees combined with individual performance evaluation as described below: The Chairman appraises the Chief Executive annually.
The Chairman is appraised by all Board colleagues through an effectiveness review process.
Additionally, the senior non-executive director meets with all the non-executive directors to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are appraised annually as part of the Committee effectiveness review process and any non-executive directors due for re-election at the following Annual General Meeting are appraised initially by the Chairman, and thereafter their suitability for re-election is confirmed by the Nominations Committee prior to those non-executive directors offering themselves for re-election.
The senior management are formally appraised annually by the Chief Executive, who also appraises the Finance Director.
Shareholders Relations with shareholders The Board recognises that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of its shareholders, and that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
The interim and annual reports remain the primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders, and the Groups website, www.
co. uk, contains the full text of such reports, together with Stock Exchange Announcements, after their release to the market.
The Company will announce its results on a half-yearly basis.
Presentations will be made to analysts and major shareholders following the release of the interim and year-end results.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are also available to meet with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior independent director are available to discuss issues and concerns of shareholders.
Shareholders are also provided with the opportunity to ask questions of the Board, including the Chairmen of the various Committees, and to present their views at the Annual General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with the Annual Report and Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, and details of the proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced after the result of the vote on the show of hands.
32 Premier Foods plc Corporate governance Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and ensuring that there is a process in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Turnbull report to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks that may effect the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board has delegated day to day responsibility for reviewing the Groups system of internal control and for regularly monitoring its effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
The principal aim of the system of internal controls is to provide an ongoing process that identies, evaluates and manages the risks that are significant in relation to the fullment of the Groups business objectives.
The internal control systems have been designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board and Audit Committee have, throughout the year, reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, operational, compliance control and risk management in accordance with the revised Code for the year to 31 December 2005.
Following last years decision to establish an internal audit department, a Head of Internal Audit was appointed at the start of 2005.
The principal role of the department is to review the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each year.
The nature and scope of this annual audit programme is determined by the Audit Committee at the beginning of each calendar year and may be revised from time to time in circumstances such as the acquisition or disposal of a business or any other significant business development.
The findings of these risk-based audits are reported initially to executive management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, the Audit Committee along with details of progress against action plans as appropriate.
In addition to the internal audit programme, senior business managers are required to complete internal control questionnaires conrming the operation of internal controls within the business units, for which they are responsible throughout the year or from the date of acquisition, if this was during the year.
The results of this exercise, which also details any material control breakdowns, to the extent that they have occurred, is reviewed by the Board.
During the year, a comprehensive risk review exercise was undertaken across the business including Marlow Foods, post its acquisition, involving individual members of the Operations Board and their management teams.
The review was co-ordinated by the Head of Internal Audit and categorised any identied risks according to the potential impact on the business and likelihood of occurrence.
At the same time, any further actions required to mitigate the risks were identied.
The findings of the review were initially considered and veried by the Operations Board which then established a special-purpose working group of senior managers with responsibility for ensuring that progress and focus is maintained on implementing agreed actions and any future emerging risks are identied.
This risk review group meets quarterly and is chaired by Paul Thomas, the Group Finance Director.
Progress against action plans and key performance indicators are reviewed by the Operations Board on a monthly basis.
These include social, environmental and ethical risks see also page 34 which details our approach to corporate social responsibility.
Risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that key operational risks are effectively managed.
The Board has considered and approved the risk management policy and risk appetite of the Company and has delegated the regular review of these risks to the Audit Committee.
The Board annually reviews the top 10 operational risks of the Company, but delegates day-to-day responsibility for risk management rests with the Operations Board.
Through its normal business operations, the Group is exposed to a number of commercial risks and uncertainties which could impact on the results of the Group.
Customers and consumers The Group operates in a highly competitive consumer market.
Its ability to compete effectively will require the successful sales and marketing of its existing products, new product development and innovation and cost rationalisation.
New product development takes into account changing trends in consumer preferences, including dietary and nutritional concerns.
Market factors and the need to develop and provide modied or alternative products may increase costs, and either or both of these factors may adversely affect the result of operations.
The consumer market in which the Group operates is not normally subject to the volatility in purchasing decision making that is experienced in other consumer goods markets, however, the demand for convenience foods can be inuenced by such things as weather, including changes in the prevailing average monthly temperatures.
Our products The Group owns a number of popular UK domestic brands, and brand name recognition is a key factor in the success of many of these products.
There will be a need to monitor closely all various trademarks, whether registered or not, to ensure the appropriate level of protection for current needs, whilst at the same time anticipating any future strategies.
Raw materials The prices of raw materials used in the business are affected by among other things, the agricultural policies of the UK Government and of the European Union.
A portion of the raw materials used are traded as commodity products, the prices of which are subject to a number of factors that are not in our control.
Movement in the price levels of these raw materials has in the past had, and may in the future have, a corresponding impact on nished product cost.
Any failure to pass through price increases may adversely affect the Groups financial performance.
33 Premier Foods plc Corporate governance Regulations Past and present business operations, and particularly those associated with the manufacture of products intended for human consumption, are subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations as a result of which, exposure to environmental costs and liabilities, including those associated with divested assets and past activities, may arise.
Future regulatory developments may increase such costs and liabilities and could have an adverse affect on operational results.
As a manufacturer of products intended for human consumption we are subject to extensive regulation from the United Kingdom, and the European Union.
Modications to existing legislation and or regulation and the introduction of new legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect our operations and the conduct of our business.
Treasury The Groups current levels of bank borrowings requires a significant portion of cash ow generated to service this debt.
This may make it difficult for the Group to pursue its business strategy, and this debt level may limit ability to react to changing market conditions, changes in the business and changes in the industry in which we operate.
Because raw materials are sourced from around the world and products are exported to various countries, the Groups financial position and results of operations are subject to currency transaction risk.
Although we manage against this exposure to currency rate uctuations, sustained movement in exchange rates affects the results of operations.
Pensions Pension expenses are based on actuarial assumptions which have been revised as at 31 December 2005, and are set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
The market value of the pension assets could decline and a change in assumptions could affect these pension costs.
Corporate social responsibility As one of the largest food producers in the UK, the Group is committed to managing its business in a socially responsible manner.
It believes strongly that to grow and be profitable it must work actively to develop sustainable relationships with its various stakeholders, comprising shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, consumers and the wider communities in which it operates.
The Board is collectively responsible for ensuring that Premier Foods continues to operate in a responsible manner.
Chief Executive, Robert Schoeld, takes the leading role in ensuring its approach supports the strategic direction of the Company, whilst at an operational level, Ian Croxford, Group Operations Director takes responsibility.
The operating principles and ethics policy statement is available on the website: www.
The Group has taken a risk-based approach to corporate social responsibility, the objective being to ensure our investment generates value.
During the year a review was conducted to assess current performance against the areas that have been identied as being most applicable to the business, namely: Food safety.
The internal review involved benchmarking our current performance, against industry peers and best practice, and identied areas where we have committed to improving performance.
KPIs have been established and these are measured against our targets at the risk review group meetings and reported monthly to the operations board.
During 2005, the KPIs measured performance of the grocery business and excluded the effect of acquisitions and disposals.
Marlow and Cauldron will be integrated into the grocery business KPIs in 2006.
A separate exercise will be completed within the fresh produce business.
Food safety The Premier Foods Group produces both branded and own-label products for consumption and is responsible for protecting the quality of both much-loved brands, and of the products to which our customers attach their names.
Premiers approach to food quality and safety is enshrined within the Quality Management System that is operated at each site.
A fully documented Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point HACCP is in place for all products, with all critical control points monitored, recorded and veried at each relevant stage of production.
Internal systems are constantly reviewed and opportunities for improvement established, for example during the year new x-ray machines, for the screening of ingredients, were installed onto a number of production lines.
In addition all sites are subject to annual British Retail Consortium BRC audits and internal audits by in-house technical teams.
All sites were scored B or above by the appointed auditors, where B is the second level of a four tier grade system A-D.
It is the Groups intention to maintain or improve these gradings in 2006.
All suppliers are required to comply with raw material specications supplied by Premier.
This includes the requirement for HACCP systems, and the compliance with Premier standards and other UK and European food safety regulations.
Ingredients suppliers are subject to audit by a specialist team of technical auditors.
Suppliers are risk assessed by reference to product supplied, known contaminants, country of origin and volumes handled.
The results are used as a basis for developing the Groups audit plan.
In 2006, 25% 2005: 14% of our ingredient suppliers are audited.
Over time, all ingredient suppliers will be audited, the frequency of the audits being dependent on the risk assessment.
In addition suppliers are regularly issued with self-assessment questionnaires.
34 Premier Foods plc Corporate governance As well as auditing suppliers, ingredients have been risk assessed against known contaminants and a testing regime developed that is applied across all sites.
For example 100% of all spices at risk of contamination with illegal colours are tested at accredited laboratories.
We also test incoming honey and peanuts.
The testing regimes are under constant review and recently a project was instigated with Campden and Chorleywood Food Research Association to establish best practices for the future.
In February 2005, we responded to an industry wide issue and recalled products containing a batch of Worcester sauce contaminated with Sudan 1.
Our response to this issue was immediate and thorough and following the incident we have reduced our risk by reviewing and consolidating our supplier and customer base and enhancing our raw material testing procedures.
Customers and consumers Premier Foods serves a number of large, key customers and works closely with them to ensure that the Group continues to deliver value and quality across all products.
Customer service is central to core business values and there is a commitment to the ongoing development of customer relationships.
The consumer is at the heart of the business and the Groups marketing activity, in addition to promoting the product, provides them with relevant, reliable and accurate information to support their purchasing decision.
The Group does not market king-size or super-size portion products and we give clear nutrition information on our packs.
The Group works closely with the Food Standards Agency FSA to nd solutions to the issues surrounding the food and health debate and specically, to reducing the levels of salt in our products in line with FSA targets.
During the year, 100,000 was pledged to the Food and Drink Federation FDF, an organisation dedicated to helping nd solutions to the complex, multi-factorial issues surrounding obesity and the food and health debate generally.
We actively participate in Project Neptune, an initiative organised by the FDF, that aims to reduce the salt content of both soups and sauces by 30% over three years.
For example we have already reformulated a number of baked bean and pasta products to reduce the sodium content.
Many of our products are naturally healthy and the overall portfolio is balanced with a range of options that give consumers choice e. g. Ambrosia low-fat products, Hartleys low-sugar jams and sugar-free jelly crystals.
During the year, the Quorn and Cauldron brands were acquired and there are plans to grow these healthy meat-free alternatives.
Along with performance against healthier eating targets, consumer complaints and service levels achieved with our customers are closely monitored as key performance indicators of the business.
Supply chain Premier Foods believes that its supply chain is critical to the quality of its products, and acts fairly with suppliers with the aim of ensuring that they operate to appropriate quality and ethical standards.
Operating in global and emerging markets, the Group recognises that there are challenges within the supply base and opportunities for supplier development.
Premier Foods has been involved in ethical supply chain work since 1992, and is a founding member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, which seeks to identify and promote good practice in the implementation of international labour codes.
An Ethical Assurance Programme has been developed that is designed to ensure that suppliers achieve the labour standards through a policy of sustainable and continuous improvement.
Our involvement with major agricultural suppliers goes right back to source, recognising that changes to our manufacturing processes can affect the sustainability of the raw materials used in production.
The aim is to understand the supply base, become involved with it and to inuence its development.
As an example, the Group worked closely with seed breeders and growers in the UK and other origin countries to help ensure varieties are developed that are suitable for our production processes.
Regular meetings are held with growers and these provide feedback on their performance with a view to assisting with their overall development.
The Group believes that the sustainable quality of its products is dependent on the sustainable development of the supply chain and continues to encourage and support its development.
There is an ongoing commitment to working with all our suppliers and to maintaining good working relationships.
Health & Safety Premier Foods is committed to operating high standards of Health & Safety, designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, contractors, visitors and others who come into contact with the business.
The Group believes that Health & Safety is a fundamental ingredient to a successful business and we constantly review our standards for effectiveness, driving through and embedding a Health & Safety culture throughout the organisation.
Quarterly internal Health & Safety audits are performed, and measured against the Health & Safety and environment management systems used in the business.
Regular external audits are also undertaken in conjunction with the Groups insurers, aimed specically at reducing re risk.
Health & Safety KPIs are monitored by the Operations Board on a monthly basis.
In 2005 the number of RIDDORS Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations per 100,000 employees fell by 22% to 2,000.
A further reduction of 10% is targeted in 2006.
Environment As a leading food producer, Premier Foods is aware of its responsibility to the environment and is committed to monitoring, managing and seeking to continually improve its environmental performance.
The objective is to provide a comprehensive framework of good environmental management practices that are applied across the business and are extended as far as practicable into the supply chain.
The building blocks for the future have been laid in the form of our internal energy strategy, which seeks to reduce the carbon footprint of the Company and risks in terms of restrictions to energy supply.
Building on this energy strategy work has been commissioned to investigate the potential for renewable energy resources across the Company.
The Groups production sites are engaged in the need to save energy and have developed a three year, energy-saving database, with each site identifying its energy-saving opportunities.
The purpose is to focus efforts on the continuing efficiency improvements that have already reaped significant benets.
For example a Canning Industry Bench Marketing Study by Enviros recently identied the Long Sutton and Wisbech canning sites to be within the top three for energy efficiency within their measurement group.
Further information on the work of the Food and Drink Federation can be found on the FDF website at www.
35 Premier Foods plc Corporate governance Environmental performance during the year was adversely affected by the aftermath of the re at the Bury St Edmunds site that occurred in October 2004.
Despite this there has still been considerable progress in the reduction of the Groups carbon footprint.
The Group has reduced its energy usage, expressed as tonnes of carbon per tonne of product, by 19.2%, on a base year of 2000, when significant changes were made in the factory mix.
This becomes even more significant if the effects of the Bury re are taken into account and Bury is assumed to have performed at the 2004 level, in which case this gure should be 23.3%.
For 2006 we are targeting a further 7% reduction.
In the core factories water use has been reduced by 7% during the year against a target of 3%, with further significant works planned.
Pilot plant trials under the Waste Resources Action Programme WRAP have been carried out at the Long Sutton site to recycle water and the results of this are being reviewed with a view to reducing water use.
During the year, a 2.3% reduction in landll was achieved across the core factories target 10%.
Whilst this demonstrates some improvement, there is still some more progress to be made and a target of a further 10% reduction in 2006 has been agreed.
Continuing efforts have been made to reduce the amount of packaging used on products.
The last full years audited Packaging Directive data showed a 6% reduction in the weight of packaging used.
A reduction of 2% is expected in 2006.
The Group avoids the use of genetically modied organisms in its food production and consider the environmental impact of the products that are made and the sourcing of raw materials, taking care to minimise the use of materials that deplete natural resources.
Of the sites within the Group the two sites that are required to, have duly made applications for IPPC Intergrated Pollution Prevention and Control permits, which at the time of writing still have to be determined by the EA.
One other has environmental management systems accredited to ISO 14001 and two have Environment Management Systems written to comply with ISO 14001 but not submitted for accreditation.
We are looking to include other sites in the future.
Human resources It is recognised that the Groups employees are its single most valuable asset.
We have high expectations of all staff and everyone is required to perform and deliver value.
This creates an environment that is both challenging and rewarding, thus enabling employees to develop quickly and pursue new opportunities.
Premier Foods strives to be the employer of choice in the areas in which it operates.
There is a commitment to the upholding of standards of international human rights in our dealings with employees as well as the supply chain, and all manufacturing sites are subject to the same ethical audits we conduct on the supply chain.
We are committed to a fair but robust approach to equal opportunities in all areas of our business, with employees gaining promotion on merit.
The Group recruits, trains, promotes and retains skilled and motivated people irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, race, religion, ethnic or national origin.
In order to promote career development, the Company provides its employees with access to relevant training and development schemes through in-house training, educational assistance, participation in National Vocational Qualication Schemes and encouraging professional memberships.
The aim being to ensure that there is a highly trained and motivated workforce, capable of meeting the highest standards required by customers and investors.
A significant number of employees participate in a formal performance and development review at least annually, and the objective is to develop this process across the entire business.
The Group has in place specic disciplinary and grievance procedures and welcomes the reporting of genuine and serious grievances, or alleged breaches of company policy.
No employee will suffer as a consequence of notifying such breaches, in accordance with our Whistle-blowing Policy.
Bullying or harassment in the workplace is not tolerated, either as a management style or between work colleagues, and disciplinary action is taken against any employee who is proven to have bullied or harassed others.
An all-employee sharesave scheme has been developed to more closely align an element of employee reward to business value enhancement.
There was an extremely encouraging level of employee take-up in the first year of operation 39%, and management believe that this should be retained as a key element of reward in subsequent years.
Premier Foods continues to seek ways in which the Groups internal communications framework can be further enhanced as we recognise the value of good communication in engaging our employees towards the achievement of common goals.
We have a number of employee consultation and communication mechanisms in place including: Regular communication meetings with employees within the organisation.
Specic consultation and involvement regarding major changes to business operations.
This process is further assisted by the formal recognition of a number of trade unions in our manufacturing sites, and the development of progressive negotiation and consultation arrangements in respect of the employees they represent.
An audit of current communication systems is planned during the first quarter of 2006, and the recommendations arising from this review will be duly considered.
There are a number of KPIs in relation to human resources that are measured on a monthly basis, e. g. absenteeism, pension scheme participation, industrial relations.
These KPIs are currently under review with a view to improving measurement of training hours and communication during 2006.
36 Premier Foods plc Corporate governance Community and charity donations Each site is encouraged to actively participate with the local community and encourage regular dialogue.
We endeavour to be a good neighbour and minimise the impact of our operations on the local communities.
We bring employment opportunities, both directly and indirectly, to the areas in which we operate.
Our policy is to recruit local people where possible.
During 2005, our employees participated in a number of fundraising activities including a group who raised 50,000 from running the London Marathon.
The Company made charitable donations amounting to 22,000.
Whilst the annual donations budget is administered locally to a policy directed predominantly towards assisting those communities in which the Groups businesses are located, the Company made donations to local, national and international causes for example: The Butterwick Hospice, Tesco Charity Appeal, Children for Leukaemia and The Tsunami Appeal.
Industry forums At Premier we recognise the importance of participating in and having an open dialogue with industry forums that represent manufacturing in both the UK and Europe and that impact our key product groups.
This assists in responding to and controlling legislative change, shaping future codes of practice and communicating industry issues.
Bodies that we participate with include but are not restricted to : The Food and Drink Federation.
The Consumer Goods Study Group.
Campden and Chorleywood Food Research Association.
scientific and Regulatory Affairs Committee.
OEITFL Organisation of European Industries transforming Fruit and Veg.
ICCA Inter Company Consumer Affairs Association.
RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Policy statements in relation to the above areas are available on our website: www.
37 Premier Foods plc Corporate governance
