Corporate governance report Compliance and the role of our Board The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and The company has established procedures and policies to ensure divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of corporate overhead costs and consideration of significant financing the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
During 2005, the Board carried out a review of strategy As required by the Code, we report below on how the main and and organisation and has focused its efforts during the year on supporting principles of the Code have been applied throughout strategic issues which will create value for shareholders, monitoring the year and explain any areas where we have not complied with performance against agreed objectives and discussing future any of the Codes provisions.
While this is an important exercise, business opportunities.
the Board does not believe that good governance can be defined merely in terms of compliance with a set of rules.
The overall The formal agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman, purpose of the Board is to represent the companys owners in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
and ensure that the companys strategic objectives are properly Formal Board and Board Committee minutes are circulated to all pursued.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts directors at the next Board meeting.
Board members receive a the interests of our shareholders as the Boards primary focus.
monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on the annual budget and progress against major objectives.
The Board considers that the company has complied with the In accordance with the authority given under the companys Articles, provisions of the Code throughout the year under review and the company has established a standing Committee of the Board, subsequently up to the date of this report except in those areas consisting of any two directors, to carry out routine business.
minutes of all meetings of this Committee are circulated to the Board.
The Board There are formal and transparent procedures for the appointment The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, the of new directors and it is the responsibility of the Nomination Chief Executive, two other executive directors and five independent Committee to consider Board composition and succession non-executive directors.
Brief biographical details of each director planning, including the appointment and reappointment of and a note of their Board Committee memberships are set out directors.
Mr J R W Orange, who is Chairman of the Remuneration on page 14.
Committee, is the companys senior independent non-executive director.
In this role, he is available to shareholders who have The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive director.
concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the His key responsibility is the effective running of the Board.
Matters reserved for Board decision Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring are clearly laid down in writing, including the appointment of the the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board This requires regular contact with the Chief Executive between procedures and rules are applied.
Formal procedures are in place Board meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, to enable individual Board members to take independent advice shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
Details of the executive directors service the Chairman made several trips abroad to visit the companys contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment overseas operations and to meet senior industry and government are laid out on page 23. representatives.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present and the The company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
The company has granted indemnities to all its directors, to the The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Chief Executive has been clearly established.
Executive Committee Premier is an international business which has to manage a variety The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the group of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important to the Chief Executive who has established an Executive Committee that the Board contains the appropriate mix of skills and experience to assist him in this role.
The Committee is made up of each of to meet these challenges.
The non-executive directors come the executive directors, the General Manager of Operations, from diverse business backgrounds, with significant expertise the General Manager of Exploration and the Company Secretary.
covering international oil and gas management, stockbroking, The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to have direct contact with the companys senior The responsibilities of the Executive Committee include the executives between Board meetings and are also encouraged development of group strategy for approval by the Board, portfolio to visit the companys operations abroad in order to familiarise management and the monitoring of performance against the targets themselves with their activities and to meet local management.
At its weekly meetings the Committee also During 2005, a visit to the companys operations in Singapore reviews health, safety, environmental and security performance and and Jakarta was arranged.
Further visits are planned in 2006. operational business performance reports.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the information provided to the Board.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 Corporate governance report continued The Executive Committee carried out a review of the organisational Mr Azam Alizai receives a consultancy fee from the company, for structure in 2005 and, following discussion and approval by the advisory services to the executive management team and the Board Board, it established four regional business units in order to manage in relation to our business in Pakistan.
The Board does not believe effectively the increasing geographical spread of business in the that this compromises Mr Alizais independence.
These business units are: North Sea: West Africa: Middle East-Pakistan and Asia.
Each business unit is headed by a regional Re-election of directors business manager who delivers against specific strategies and In accordance with the companys Memorandum and Articles performance targets set by the Executive Committee.
of Association one third of directors retire each year, with their re-appointment being subject to the approval of shareholders.
Board performance evaluation This requires directors to submit themselves for re-election at least The Board and its directors are subject to regular independent every three years.
In addition, any director of the age of 70 or over appraisal.
The aim is to improve both individual contributions and who would not otherwise be required to retire, must retire by rotation.
The last such appraisal was in 2004 and was facilitated by an independent external consultant.
A full report was The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear provided to the Board in January 2005 and follow-up actions were on issues of strategy, performance and resources including key agreed.
The conclusion of the evaluation was that all the directors appointments and standards of conduct.
Non-executive directors views on the overall functioning of the Board were very positive.
comprise over one half of the Board.
Selection of suitable The principal focus of the follow-up actions was to put in place non-executive directors is a matter for Board approval following a structured programme of presentations to Board members, recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
at which senior managers in the group make presentations on a variety of subjects relevant to the companys business.
Board committees These presentations began in 2005.
The presentations not only The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, meet the objective of developing and updating the knowledge a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of the directors, but also give the non-executive directors the of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
opportunity to meet a number of senior managers across the group.
The company secretary provides advice and support to the Board These presentations take place at the end of Board meetings and all Board committees.
and are attended by all the directors present at the meeting.
This programme is continuing in 2006.
Audit and Risk Committee An objective and professional relationship is maintained with The other issue highlighted in the follow-up actions was the need to the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Audit and Risk Committee, review the induction process for new directors.
This was completed comprising only non-executive directors, meets at least three times during 2005. a year for a detailed review of the groups accounts and its internal controls.
Its members are Messrs R V Emerson Chairman, S J The Board decided that the positive results of the 2004 evaluation Dobbie, I Gray and J R W Orange.
Minutes of the meetings of the meant that it would not be appropriate to carry out an evaluation Audit and Risk Committee are distributed to all Board members, exercise in 2005.
While this is not in accordance with the strict all of whom are encouraged to attend meetings of the Committee requirements of the Code, which recommends an annual evaluation as observers since the Board believes that the work of the of Board performance, the Board decided that it would be more Committee, particularly in the areas of risk management and productive to concentrate on putting in place the agreed action internal control, is increasingly important for all Board members.
plan in 2005 and then discuss the issue of further evaluation in 2006.
The Committee has three scheduled meetings each year: the Independence of non-executive directors March meeting reviews the full-year results for the previous calendar We require that all our non-executive directors be free from any year and also reviews the annual Corporate Governance Report: relationship with the executive management of the company that the September meeting reviews the results for the six-month period could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent ending on 30 June: and the December meeting plans the audit judgement.
In the Boards view, all our non-executive directors, work for the forthcoming year.
The Committee met four times in including the Chairman, fulfil this requirement.
It thus determined 2005, which included a meeting in August 2005 to consider the all six who served in 2005 to be independent directors.
groups adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, adoption of successful efforts accounting for exploration and Mr Ian Gray was appointed to the Board in 1996 and Mr John Orange production activities, and issuance of the IFRS Restatement Document.
The length of their respective service on the Board exceeds the nine years referred to in the Code.
The Board considers that the experience and long-term perspective of each of these directors on Premiers business continues to provide a most valuable contribution and that it benefits from their input to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is strongly of the view that the important qualities when considering the issue of independence of non-executive directors are independence of spirit and objectivity of mind.
The Board therefore regards both Mr Gray and Mr Orange as independent directors.
16 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The Committee is mainly responsible for: Remuneration Committee reviewing the companys internal financial control system and risk The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least three times management system: a year and determines the remuneration of the executive directors reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and and senior employees.
The groups remuneration policy is to provide disclosures in financial reports to ensure clarity and completeness: a level of remuneration which is sufficient to attract and retain overseeing the companys relationship with its external auditors, employees of the level of expertise we require.
In relation to including making recommendations as to the appointment executive directors and senior employees, the objective is that or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms a significant element of the remuneration package is linked to of engagement and monitoring their independence: and corporate performance.
No director is involved in setting his own reviewing the companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration Committee these are adequately published within the organisation, that the are Messrs J R W Orange Chairman, S J Dobbie, R V Emerson and Committee Chairman is promptly informed of any issues, and I Gray.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend by invitation that there are arrangements in place for the investigation of any when appropriate.
Full details of the directors remuneration alleged improprieties.
are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 30.
The main focus for the Committee in 2005 has been to consider The role of the Committee includes: and then implement the adoption by the group of International considering and determining the remuneration policy for Financial Reporting Standards.
This has imposed a significant executive directors: burden on the companys internal resources, but the Committee within this agreed policy, considering and determining the total confirmed that the additional work has not compromised the high compensation package of each executive director of the company: quality of financial and control work carried out.
considering and advising on the general principles under which compensation is applied to employees of the company: The Committee also carried out its annual review into whether it determining the awards to be made under the companys is appropriate for the company to establish an internal audit long-term incentive scheme: and function.
The Committee places great emphasis on the importance determining the policy for pension arrangements, service of imbuing a culture of strategic risk management and control at all agreements and termination payments to directors.
operating levels in the business and is confident that this culture is in place.
The Committee also took account of the fact that the As in previous years, the principal focus of the Committee in 2005 company obtains independent confirmation of its internal controls has been to ensure that the remuneration packages of the senior from a variety of sources: these include joint venture and executives are set at levels which are sufficient to retain and attract government audits and the use of specific reviews using third high-quality individuals, particularly at a time when the market party specialists.
As a result, the Committee concluded that there for these individuals is extremely competitive.
was no need for a dedicated internal audit resource.
The determination of the remuneration of the non-executive directors The Committee also regularly reviews the issue of the independence is a matter for the Board.
of our external auditors, in the light of the fact that they provide taxation advice to the company.
In all services purchased, Nomination Committee independence considerations permitting, the group aims to select The Nomination Committee comprises Sir David John Chairman, the provider who is best placed to deliver the service in terms of Messrs S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, I Gray, S C Lockett and J R W quality and cost.
The Committee does not believe that the provision Orange.
The Committee met twice in 2005. of taxation advice to the group by the external auditor creates a threat to the independence of the audit process.
This is principally The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the structure, because neither the nature of the non-audit service nor the level size and composition of the Board and make recommendations of reliance placed upon it by the group could, or could be seen to, to the Board on these matters and to put in place succession plans impair the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
The Committee also requires the external auditor to confirm that in providing non-audit services, it complies The Board considers that the memberships of the Audit and Risk with Ethical Standards of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration This confirmation was received for 2005.
Committee are in compliance with the Code recommendation on the basis that it considers Messrs J R W Orange and I Gray to be independent, notwithstanding their length of service.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Corporate governance report continued The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during Premier has adopted a framework model for application across 2005, and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: the group and an annual report is produced on compliance with that model and with the group risk management process.
The report Board Audit Remuneration Nomination is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
1 Number of meetings747 2 Attendance Monitoring A comprehensive control manual is in force which M A K Alizai 7 N A N A N A regulates a wide range of day-to-day activities both in the UK and R A Allan 7 N A N A N A overseas offices including environmental controls, health and safety S J Dobbie 7342 regulations and political risks.
The application of internal control 2 A R C Durrant 4 3 N A N A procedures is reviewed during visits to the overseas offices by head R V Emerson 7442 office staff.
Audits are carried out by partners in joint ventures from I Gray 7372 time to time.
3 C J A Jamieson 31 2 N A Sir David John 7 N A 4 2 A process of business control reviews has been developed and S C Lockett 7 3 2 2 implemented across the group.
This process is designed, inter alia, J R W Orange 7472 to provide assurance to the Board that the company is embedding 4 J A van der Welle 31 N A N A effective risk management into its operations.
The report of each review is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
By invitation 1 There were four scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year: the remaining three meetings only attended by Messrs J R W Orange and During 2005 the key business risks identified were formally discussed I Gray were called to approve the detail of arrangements approved in principle by the Executive Committee on a semi-annual basis.
This process by a prior scheduled meeting of the Committee.
2 Mr A R C Durrant was appointed to the Board on 30 June 2005 and attended all the Board meetings held from that date.
The Board will receive regular reports on any major problems that 3,4 Messrs C J A Jamieson and J A van der Welle resigned from the Board with effect from 30 June 2005. have occurred and how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Internal control The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining Management structure The Board has overall responsibility the groups system of internal control.
The internal control system for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Internal control systems in any reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive director has group are designed to meet the particular needs of that group been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs.
and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only The executive directors together with key senior executives provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material constitute the Executive Committee which normally meets weekly.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control Corporate accounting Responsibility levels are communicated required by Code provision D. 2.1 are described below.
These throughout the group as part of corporate accounting and an procedures have been in place for the year under review and up authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, authorisation levels, to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
segregation of duties and other control procedures.
Management of business risks This is an ongoing process, in Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence accordance with the Turnbull guidance, has been established for of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This and subsequent training courses.
is based on each business unit and corporate function producing a risk matrix which identifies the key business risks, the probability of Budgetary process There is a comprehensive budgeting system those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions with an annual budget approved by the Board, covering capital being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
expenditure, cash flow, income statement and balance sheet.
Monthly results are reported against budget, and revised forecasts The directors receive assurance directly from the business units for the year are prepared regularly.
and functional management through the completion of annual declarations confirming compliance with the groups policies, procedures and risk management processes.
These processes are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
18 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Investment appraisal The group has clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure.
These include authority levels, commitment records and reporting, annual budget and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
The authority of the directors is required for key treasury matters including changes to equity and loan financing, interest rate and foreign currency policy, including foreign currency hedging, oil price hedging, cheque signatories and opening of bank accounts.
Comprehensive due diligence work is carried out if a business or an asset is to be acquired.
During 2005, the Board reviewed the groups system of internal control and is satisfied that all the controls in place are adequate to provide reasonable assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The review is conducted on a regular basis and changes are made to internal control systems to capture any new risks or exposures arising as a result of changes to the business or the business environment.
Going concern After making enquiries, and in the light of the groups loan facilities, the group budget for 2006 and the medium-term plans, the directors have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report which are sent to shareholders.
The company has also produced a separate corporate brochure and summary reviews in each of the last four years highlighting Premiers capabilities and business principles.
These documents are available to all shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, and the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the directors responsible for dealing with shareholders, to ensure that other members of the Board receive full reports of shareholder meetings.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and are dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress of the group.
The company also maintains a website www.
com which provides detailed information on the groups activities.
By order of the Board Stephen Huddle Company Secretary 22 March 2006 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
