CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Arriva plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and as such is required to comply with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to make a statement on corporate governance.
This includes how the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code have been applied and whether or not the company has complied with its provisions.
The directors of Arriva plc consider that the company has substantially complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The requirement that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent Code provision A.
3.2 was achieved in September by the appointment of two independent non-executive directors.
The Board The Board is responsible for the strategic direction of the company and has a specific schedule of matters reserved for its decision covering the approval of financial statements, long-term objectives and commercial strategy, treasury policy, health and safety policy, major capital investment and all matters concerning the maintenance and development of good corporate governance practice.
The Board is made up of the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
Further details of the directors, including their biographies and committee memberships, are given on pages 26 to 27.
The Board met 12 times during 2005, including one meeting devoted to a strategy discussion.
At each meeting the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive and from executive directors, as well as reports from Board Committees.
In addition to matters related to the strategy, finances and business of the company, the Board considers reports on matters relevant to the transport industry and receives updates on corporate governance, regulatory and other compliance matters.
The Board has a balance of executive and non-executive directors, with the non-executive directors providing an independent voice and valuable skills and experience.
Steve Williams is the Senior Independent Director and his responsibilities include providing an additional channel of communication for shareholders should they feel it necessary to express any concerns outside the normal methods of communication with the company.
The Board has four Committees Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Safety.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year, the Remuneration Committee six times and the Nomination Committee and the Safety Committee each met four times.
A table showing attendance at Board meetings and Board committee meetings is given on pages 40 and 41.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Board Committees is available on request or can be accessed by visiting the companys website www.
co. uk The roles of both Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided and set out in the Boards Corporate Governance manual.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the smooth and effective operation of the Board, including the flow of information to the Board, for Board membership and succession and for facilitating relationships between the company and investors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and implementing the decisions of the Board.
In particular the Chief Executive formulates and keeps under review proposals for the strategic direction of the business, ensures that appropriate operational resources are available, promotes the company to the investing community and potential investors, and accounts to the Board for the financial performance of the company.
Bob Davies will retire as Chief Executive at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2006, to be succeeded by David Martin, currently Group Managing Director Operations and Deputy Chief Executive.
One third of the directors are required to submit themselves for re-election each year and all directors will have submitted themselves for re-election every three years.
Newly appointed directors will be subject to election by the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment: a resolution to approve the appointments of Nick Buckles and Steve Williams as directors of the company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 April 2006.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who administers the Board and Board Committee meetings, regularly updates the Board on matters of corporate governance and ensures that relevant procedures and regulations are adhered to.
There is an established procedure for any of the directors both executive and non-executive to obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
An Induction Programme applies for all new appointees to the Board, which incorporates full briefing on the Arriva approach to corporate governance and a review of the business and Board and corporate issues.
The Induction Programme also includes site visits in the UK and mainland Europe and one-to-one meetings with key senior managers.
Existing directors also receive regular business updates and make site visits as appropriate.
Opportunities to further develop Board skills and knowledge are also considered as part of the Board evaluation process.
38 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk Board Evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance.
The 2005 evaluation was an internal process based on confidential questionnaires completed by each director and reviewed by the Chairman.
The primary focus of the 2005 evaluation was on the role of the Board in providing strategic direction, sound governance and successful senior management succession.
As part of the 2005 evaluation process Steve Williams, consulting other directors of the Board, undertook an evaluation of the performance of Sir Richard Broadbent in his role as Chairman.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Simon Batey, Veronica Palmer and Steve Williams, all independent nonexecutive directors.
To assist it in performing its duties the Committee may invite other members of the Board, the Head of Internal Audit, any member of the companys senior management team and any representative of the companys external auditors to attend its meetings: however no invitee has any right of attendance.
The Committee met four times in 2005.
It is the responsibility of the Committee members to ensure that they are regularly briefed and receive training on matters concerning financial reporting developments and associated skills.
The Committee is chaired by Simon Batey, a chartered accountant and Group Finance Director of United Utilities plc.
The Committees terms of reference require it to monitor the integrity of all the companys financial statements and any other statements which may be issued relating to the companys financial performance or financial standing: this review will include an assessment of financial reporting judgments applied.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to review and report to the Board on the companys internal controls and risk management systems, including risk transfer and risk retention.
The Committee reviews reports by Group Internal Audit and reports to the Board on action being taken to address issues arising from the reports.
It also monitors the effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions and is required to satisfy itself as to the continuing independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
During 2005 the Committee undertook a review of the objectivity, resources and independence of the auditors  LLP PwC and has considered the appointment of the auditors for 2006.
Following this review the Committee believes that PwC continues to deliver a satisfactory service and has recommended to the Board that PwCs re-appointment as auditors be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has endorsed that recommendation.
As part of its process for ensuring continued audit independence, the Audit Committee reviews and approves the level and nature of non-audit work performed by the auditors.
For the year under review the value of non-audit work was 0.9 million against an audit fee of 0.7 million.
The Committee also approved policy documents relating to i non-audit work performed by the auditors and, ii the employment of ex-employees of the external auditors.
Also during 2005 the Committee conducted an appraisal of the role of Group Internal Audit and how effectively that role is discharged.
The Committee concluded that the Group Internal Audit function was performing well and represents a significant and effective unit in both the monitoring of the Groups internal controls and the quality, reliability and integrity of the Groups accounting records.
Remuneration Committee Full details of the work of the Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Richard Broadbent.
It is responsible for keeping under review the structure, size and operation of the Board and its Committees and for forming an assessment and making appropriate recommendations regarding the resourcing of the Board.
It also monitors and reviews senior management succession planning and during the year a comprehensive succession exercise covering senior management at and immediately below Board level was begun and is expected to be completed during 2006.
In relation to new Board appointments the Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive and relevant external advisors, will consider and approve the particular skill set, personal attributes and characteristics that are necessary to fulfill the role, review an appropriate job description and be directly involved in the recruitment process.
It is also the responsibility of the Committee, together with the Chairman of the Board, to ensure the effective application of the Board evaluation procedure.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Committee met four times in 2005.
Areas that the Committee focused on included the succession to Bob Davies as Chief Executive and the appointments of Nick Buckles and Steve Williams as non-executive directors where the Committee was assisted in its recruitment process by external recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart.
Safety Committee The Board recognises the fundamental importance of safety within the business and the Safety Committee exists to ensure that the appropriate Board level attention and overview is devoted to this subject.
The Safety Committee is required to identify and address key issues that may impact on the company, to review the key safety performance indicators, to advise the Board of Directors on the adequacy and effectiveness of the overall safety policy of the Group and review and report on the companys internal safety management system.
The Committee is chaired by Nick Buckles non-executive director and its members are Sir Richard Broadbent, Steve Williams Senior Independent Director and the Group Managing Director Corporate Affairs, Steve Clayton: the Group Safety and Environment Manager, Sean Forster, supports the Committee in its work.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
In December 2005 the Board approved a revised Safety Policy statement, as developed by the Safety Committee, which reflects the arrangements in place for successful safety management across all Arriva businesses.
The Safety Policy statement can be found on the Arriva website www.
co. uk Board and Board Committee Attendance BOARD Possible Actual Sir Richard Broadbent 12 12 R J Davies 12 12 D R Martin 12 11 S P Lonsdale 12 12 S J Clayton 12 12 A V M Palmer 12 12 S G Batey 12 12 N P Buckles 6 6 S G Williams 5 5 M J Allen 6 6 A M Saxton 1 1 AUDIT A V M Palmer 4 4 S G Batey 4 4 S G Williams 1 0 M J Allen 2 2 NOMINATION Sir Richard Broadbent 4 4 A V M Palmer 4 4 S G Batey 4 4 N P Buckles 2 2 S G Williams 1 1 M J Allen 2 2 REMUNERATION A V M Palmer 6 6 S G Batey 6 6 N P Buckles 3 3 M J Allen 2 2 40 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk SAFETY Sir Richard Broadbent 4 4 S J Clayton 4 4 N P Buckles 1 1 S G Williams 1 1 M J Allen 2 2 Whistleblowing The Group operates a Whistleblowing policy and procedure whereby employees can in confidence report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place or if health and safety standards are being compromised.
Areas that are addressed by this procedure cover financial malpractice, criminal activities, dangers to health and safety, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
The procedures allow for employees to raise their concerns with line management or, if this is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
A confidential telephone mailbox and confidential e-mail facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
The complaint will be investigated in a confidential manner and, after a decision is made as to what further steps should be taken, feedback is given to the person making the complaint.
An official written record is kept of each stage of the procedure, and a report of the outcome of all investigations is made to the Board.
The Whistleblowing policy and its operation is subject to periodic review by the Audit Committee: the last review was in February 2006.
Dialogue with Shareholders The company has an established programme of communication with shareholders and the Corporate Communications department organises presentations for analysts and investors.
It is the Boards intention to ensure that these arrangements, subject to any statutory or regulatory requirements, continue and are developed in a way designed to provide a helpful and constructive dialogue between the company and the major investors.
A procedure has been established for the non-executive directors to receive direct feedback from the companys stockbrokers of the investing communitys perception of the Boards performance and strategy.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting is an important opportunity for the Board to communicate with shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
A presentation on the progress and performance of the business is made prior to the formal business of the meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Safety Committees are available to answer questions.
Following each resolution, the meeting will be informed of the number of proxy votes submitted in respect of each resolution: this information will also be published on the companys website following the meeting.
Accountability and Audit Companies are required to report to shareholders that they have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The review required extends beyond financial controls to encompass operational and compliance control and risk management.
Internal Control The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
While no system can provide absolute guarantees and protection against material loss, the systems are designed to give the directors reasonable assurance that problems can be identified promptly and remedial action taken as appropriate.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group has been in place throughout the year under review and continues to remain in place.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness on an ongoing basis of the system of internal control for the accounting period under review.
The key features of the internal control system are: a Organisation Structure The structure of the organisation is so designed to minimise as far as possible the complexity of the reporting arrangements commensurate with the commercial demands made on the Group.
The structure focuses on the core businesses of the Group and stringent reporting procedures are applied to ensure that performance is closely monitored so that effective and prompt action can be taken if the need arises.
Certain of the Groups key functions including company secretarial, legal, taxation, internal audit, treasury, insurance and health and safety are undertaken centrally.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued b Financial Reporting The Group operates a comprehensive financial control system with each operating divisions performance being closely monitored against both budget and prior period performance.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for consideration by the Board as a whole.
c Group Internal Audit The internal control systems are comprehensively supported by the Group Internal Audit department.
Group Internal Audit is responsible for advising all levels of management, and the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee, on the quality of the operational systems of control for all parts of the Group.
This review and appraisal function does not relieve line management of its responsibility for effective control.
Group Internal Audit functions by conducting independent appraisals in a professional manner leading to reports detailing findings and agreed actions.
Group Internal Audit undertakes annual financial reviews of the balance sheets of all of the Groups material trading subsidiaries and engages in a cycle of operational and risk reviews both on scheduled and random bases: the Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The Group Internal Audit department is staffed by appropriately qualified and experienced auditors.
d Risk Assessment and Risk Control An essential element of good internal control is the continual process of risk assessment and the implementation of appropriate controls designed to eliminate or mitigate the effects of the crystallisation of identified major risks.
The approach adopted by the Board involves a process which is designed to encourage divisional operational staff to critically examine their responsibilities and identify those risks which are of such a nature that their crystallisation would have a material impact on their business.
In order for this process to succeed it is essential that ownership of risk awareness, risk identification and risk control is fully embraced by line management as an essential ingredient of its normal responsibilities.
In implementing its risk assessment programme the Board has devolved to the Audit Committee the task of implementing and maintaining an appropriate risk assessment and control programme and works closely with the Head of Internal Audit in engaging in a formal review of the key business risks to the Group.
In the development of this programme there are a number of fundamental issues that the Board has identified as being absolutely critical to the success and effectiveness of the risk management and control programme, and in formulating its approach has structured the programme around the key areas of: Clear leadership from the Board The need for risk management to be seen as part of everyday activity and to be embedded in line management culture Clear communication of the principles involved Active support and involvement of the Group Internal Audit function Regular review of the process and continual assessment of the changing nature of the risks presenting themselves to the business.
As part of the risk management regime a disaster recovery plan has been developed and tested for the Groups key locations and provides for recovery procedures for all the primary business functions.
Going Concern The directors confirm that, after having made appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
This approach was endorsed by the Audit Committee at its meeting held on 23 February 2006.
42 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
