36 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ANNUAL REPORT 2005 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The board is committed to meeting the standards of good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance Remuneration committee published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
This report, together with the report on directors remuneration describes how the The remuneration committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the chairman, board applied the Code during the year under review.
executive directors and senior executives, which the board as a whole is responsible for approving.
The committee members are the four independent non-executive directors, Mr D C Godwin, Mr D W Lewis, Mr R H Sellers and Mr J D M Smith committee chairman.
Directors Once approved, the remuneration committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and determining speci c remuneration The board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring its business objectives and maintaining a system of effective packages for the chairman and each executive director.
The chairman and executive directors are responsible for the agreement of noncorporate governance.
The committee met three times during the year and all the committee members were in attendance at each meeting.
The board of directors has twelve members comprising the chairman, the chief executive, six other executive directors and four nonexecutive directors.
The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out in the report of the directors.
The differing Audit committee roles of the chairman and chief executive are acknowledged.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the running of the board and ensuring The audit committee is responsible for reviewing, on behalf of the board, the Groups accounting and financial policies and its disclosure that it is supplied in a timely manner with suf cient information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The chief executive is responsible for practices and internal controls.
It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the appointments, terms, remuneration and coordinating the running of the business and implementing Group strategy.
The executive directors service contracts and the letters setting performance of the external auditors and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness.
These responsibilities out the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered of ce during normal are discharged at the audit committee meetings and through regular reports from the internal audit function.
The audit committee comprises business hours and at the annual general meeting.
the four independent non-executive directors, Mr D C Godwin, Mr D W Lewis, Mr R H Sellers committee chairman and Mr J D M Smith The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could and meets regularly with the external auditors.
The audit committee met twice during the year and all the committee members were in materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr D W Lewis recently retired as a partner of Addleshaw Goddard, attendance at each meeting.
who act as legal advisors to the company.
Mr Lewis does not and has not participated in any way in the provision of services by Addleshaw As mentioned, one of the duties of the audit committee is to make recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment of the Goddard to PZ Cussons.
In addition, in order that his independence is not compromised, if at any time the board or a committee of the external auditors.
A number of factors are taken into account by the committee in assessing whether to recommend the auditors for board is considering any matter concerning Addleshaw Goddard, it has been agreed that Mr Lewis will withdraw from that meeting until reappointment.
These include the quality of the reports provided to the audit committee and the board and the level of understanding such matters have been dealt with.
The senior independent non-executive director is Mr J D M Smith.
In his capacity as senior independent demonstrated of the Groups business.
director Mr Smith is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditors.
The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, or are not perceived to be, in con ict with auditor independence, providing they have the skill, competence and integrity to carry The board has a documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, annual budgets, out the work and are considered to be the most appropriate to undertake such work in the best interests of the Group.
Activities that may material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of annual and interim results, material acquisitions and disposals and be perceived to be in con ict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the committee for approval prior to engagement, entering into material joint ventures and partnerships.
The board met formally four times during the year and will meet further as necessary regardless of the amounts involved.
All assignments are monitored by the committee.
All the directors were in attendance at each meeting.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the Directors can take independent professional advice where necessary at the companys expense and have access to the services of the financial statements.
company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and all applicable rules and regulations are followed.
During the year, the company maintained liability insurance for its directors and of cers.
Risk management committee There is a formal induction process for directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
Directors may The risk management committee is responsible for identifying signi cant risks and ensuring, where possible, that action is taken to mitigate take additional training where necessary as part of their continuing development at the expense of the company.
This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying all risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, and ensuring that appropriate control measures are put in place.
Plans are developed and implemented to eliminate, reduce or transfer these A formal review of the board and board committee performance is carried out annually.
The chairmans performance is reviewed by the nonrisks where practicable.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk management and control processes within the Group.
executive directors led by the senior independent director and takes into account the views of the executive directors.
The performance of the non-executive directors is evaluated by the chairman, in consultation with the executive directors.
The remuneration committee reviews The committee comprises senior management from within the business and receives input from professional advisers.
It met twice during executive directors performance with guidance from the chairman and the chief executive except in the case of the chief executives the year and regularly reports to the board.
In addition, the board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk management process and performance where it is reviewed by the chairman and the remuneration committee.
The directors submit themselves for re-election at the performance of the risk management committee.
the annual general meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation, at least once every three years.
The review process in 2005 concluded that all directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting adequate time to carry out Remuneration their duties.
Details of directors remuneration are set out in the report on directors remuneration.
The board has established a number of standing committees to which various matters are delegated according to fide ned terms of reference.
Accountability and audit The terms of reference of the committees are available, on request, from the registered of ce of the company and will also be available through the companys website.
Directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view Nomination committee of the state of affairs of the Group and the company as at the end of the financial year and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
The nomination committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board and identifying and The directors are responsible for ensuring that suitable accounting policies are consistently applied supported by reasonable and prudent recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the board when vacancies arise.
The committee members are Mr A J Green judgements and estimates and that applicable accounting standards are followed.
committee chairman, Mr C N Green and the four independent non-executive directors, Mr D C Godwin, Mr D W Lewis, Mr R H Sellers and Mr J D M Smith.
In considering an appointment the nomination committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy of the board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
External search agencies or at any time the financial position of the Group and the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the open advertising will be used where this is appropriate.
Short-listed candidates will then be invited to interview with members of the Companies Act.
They also have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the committee and, if recommended by the committee, will be invited to meet other board members before any decision is taken relating to the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern After making an appropriate review the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
