Corporate governance THE BOARD The board is committed to guiding the strategic and entrepreneurial development of the group and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the success of the company.
The majority of the board comprises independent non-executive directors.
The nonexecutive directors have during the past financial year continued to provide an independent assessment of the activities of the group and its management, including the integrity of financial information and the groups system of internal control and risk management.
This section of the annual report provides a description of how the company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code the Combined Code.
Except as noted below, the company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2005.
A regular schedule of meetings deliberates on matters which are reserved for specific consideration.
The board has reserved, for its sole discretion, the finalisation and adoption of the groups strategic plan, major fiscal policies, approval of all mining developments and of any merger and acquisition.
The day to day management of the business has, however, been delegated to management.
The board acknowledges that there are instances when independent nonThe board is committed executive directors should meet without the presence of executive management to deliberate on issues affecting the group.
During the to guiding the strategic past financial year such meetings have occurred on several occasions.
and entrepreneurial development of the In accordance with the Combined Code, the responsibilities of chairman and chief executive officer are separated.
of the CEO is assessed annually by the board in line with guidelines laid down according to set and agreed criteria.
The board has acknowledged that the chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and to ensure that effective communications exist between the executive and non-executive directors.
The role of the senior independent non-executive director has evolved and the incumbent has been delegated as the contact for the companys whistle blowing procedure.
The group has not appointed a nomination committee as it is the policy for details of a candidate to be distributed to all directors for formal consideration at a full meeting of the board.
A prospective candidate would be invited to attend a board meeting and be interviewed before any decision was taken.
This approach is considered appropriate in light of the small size of the board but this policy is kept under review.
The audit and remuneration committees consist solely of independent non-executive directors.
Details of the composition and the activities of both are contained hereafter or in the subsequent report of the remuneration committee.
The structure and timing of the companys board meetings, which are scheduled over two days, allows adequate time for the chairman to interact with the non-executive directors without the presence of the executive directors.
At present, the board does not have a formal process for evaluating its own performance and that of its committees and individual non-executive directors.
However, it is considering the introduction of such a system.
32 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources Number Total of number meetings of board Directors Designation attended meetings P Litard Non-executive chairman 7 7 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 7 7 RA Williams Chief financial officer 7 7 BH Asher Senior independent non-executive 7 7 J-A Cramer Independent non-executive 6 7 RI Israel Independent non-executive 6 7 AL Paverd Independent non-executive 7 7 During the year, the board met seven times and a subchairman from an executive to non-executive, the role committee of the board met twice.
Attendance at the and duties have altered.
Currently, a revised job formal board meetings is recorded above.
specification is being finalised which will include a process of evaluation of his performance.
Under the terms of the Code, the following potential threats to the independence of the non-executive The board operates in a field which is technically complex directors have been identified: and directors are provided with information which enables them to fulfill their duties.
Visits to the operations and a Dr Paverd has served as director since 1996 - technical presentations provided by management and however, other directors consider that the objectivity the companys advisers are used to further their and nature of his contribution to the board and committee knowledge in various areas of specialisation.
These discussions are fully consistent with those of an updates include matters on corporate governance.
independent director: and b during the year all held Induction courses take the form of presentations made options under the companys share option scheme, to the board and site visits.
Information necessary to which were awarded in 1998 some of which were update the board on the companys activities and exercised during the year.
The board does not believe corporate governance arrangements is made available that this interferes with the independence of the nonthrough the offices of the company secretary.
Directors executive directors, but does not intend to grant any are regularly invited to attend company presentations additional share options to non-executive directors.
All to shareholders and investors to encourage interaction non-executive directors own shares in the company, with the market.
All directors have direct access to which aligns their interests with those of shareholders.
independent professional advice when they deem that such assistance is necessary in the furtherance of their The companys CEO has been granted a rolling .
year service contract, which the board deems to be in the best interest of the company and its shareholders.
In accordance with the provision of Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the articles of association, directors are The company holds its annual general meeting in required to submit themselves to re-election.
Any newly conjunction with a board meeting, thereby ensuring that appointed director is subject to election by shareholders members of the executive, the senior independent at the first annual general meeting after his her director and the chairmen of the board committees are appointment.
Thereafter, by rotation, the entire board available to answer any queries that shareholders might is subject to re-election every three years.
When new non-executive directors are appointed, three of the non-executive directors have served on the their terms and conditions of appointment will be available board since 1997, and Dr Paverd has served as a for inspection at the companys annual general meeting.
The current terms and conditions of appointment of the executive directors will be available for inspection at the The articles of association do not specify any age limit annual general meeting.
for directors to retire nor is there any restriction about the period of service.
The board will reconsider its The job specifications for the chief executive officer and composition for future years and may introduce an age chief financial officer have been formally approved by limit for directors, fixed periods of appointment or a the remuneration committee and the board.
These are maximum period of service for non-executive directors reviewed annually.
With the change in status of the at some point in the future if it deems this appropriate.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2005 33 Currently, the company allows directors to take up other The companys auditors also act as auditors for Loulo board appointments where these are not in conflict with and Morila and the findings from the audits are the company.
Such appointments are discussed at communicated to the audit committee.
AngloGold board meetings and it is the policy that any fees that Ashantis internal audit department conducts regular accrue should be retained by the director concerned.
audits of the Morila mine and copies of these reports During the year 2005, Dr Bristow received fees of are submitted to the companys audit committee for 23 433.00 for his services to African Platinum plc.
Given its size, the group does not have There are no recent letters of appointment for individual a separate internal audit department.
The expected time commitments involved in management undertake regular audits of various parts serving the company are regularly discussed.
of the Morila mine and details of their reports are submitted to the audit committee and board for comment.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT A similar programme will be introduced for Loulo going The Companies Jersey Law, 1991, and Combined forward.
Financial and technical audits of the companys Code require, and the board acknowledges, that it is branch offices and major assets are regularly conducted.
responsible for presenting a balanced and The board notes that no cost effective system will understandable assessment of the companys and the groups position and prospects.
This extends to the preclude all errors and irregularities and so the groups preparation and publication of the annual report and system of internal controls provides reasonable, but not any other release of information, price sensitive or absolute assurance, against material misstatement or otherwise.
The financial statements set out in this report have been Details of the key risk factors which might affect the prepared by management in accordance with activities of the company are contained in the Form International Financial Reporting Standards and are 20-F annual report filing for the period to 31 December based on accounting policies that the board considers 2004, and this document and can be obtained from the appropriate, supported by reasonable and prudent companys website: www.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The directors are of the opinion that the financial The audit committee comprises three non-executive statements fairly present the financial position of the directors all of whom are considered independent.
company and group as at 31 December 2005, and the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of the group for the year then ended.
The directors have Members Appointed continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements because the directors are BH Asher Chairman 15 July 1997 satisfied that the group and company have adequate J-A Cramer 15 July 1997 financial resources available to ensure their continued AL Paverd 1 May 2000 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Two of the members have considerable years experience The group has operated a code of ethics since its in the financial services sector and the other has extensive United Kingdom listing in July 1997.
The code has been experience in the mining industry.
The board believes updated to have specific reference to the companys that this level of expertise is sufficient to meet the financial managers and the chief executive officer.
standards imposed by the Combined Code, even though A copy of the code is available on the companys website: none of the members has recent and relevant financial www.
If issues arose which were deemed outside the areas of expertise of the audit committee independent INTERNAL CONTROL professional advice would be sought by the committee.
The group maintains a business control framework that documents the key business risks, together with the related operational and financial compliance controls.
During the year, the committee has met eight times and The business control framework is regularly reviewed attendance at the meetings was as follows: and updated by management, who report quarterly to the board on any issues which might affect the risks and Number of controls.
The board acknowledges that it has meetings responsibility for the ongoing review and update of the Members attended business control framework and believes that, through the procedures noted above and below, it has complied BH Asher Chairman 8 with the requirement of the Code to review the J-A Cramer 7 effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls AL Paverd 7 at least annually.
34 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources Mr Asher, the senior independent non-executive director, independent director to be the first point of contact in receives a fee for his services as senior independent the companys whistle blowing procedure.
In the event non-executive director and is not paid an additional fee of an issue being raised, independent consultants would for services to any board committees.
Details of the then be employed by the senior independent director fees paid to Mr Asher are contained on page 38 while to investigate any alleged irregularity.
Dr Paverd and Mr Cramer were paid US$35 000 each during 2005 for their services to the audit committee.
The audit committee continues to oversee the groups preparation for compliance with the requirements of The committee makes recommendations to the board section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will apply in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and to the 31 December 2006 year end.
The board believes removal of the external auditor as well as the remuneration that the group is well placed to meet these requirements and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
The and intends engaging a firm of accountants not involved actual appointment of the external auditor is subject to in the external audit to help in assessing whether its the approval of shareholders at the annual general internal financial controls are designed and operating meeting.
The committee reviews and monitors the external auditors SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS independence and the objectivity and effectiveness of The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining the audit process.
This is undertaken within the effective communications with all shareholders.
The framework of a detailed audit charter.
A copy of the CEO, the corporate communications manager and the audit charter is available on the companys website: companys investor relations consultants prepare a www.
quarterly report for the board detailing the activities and presentations given to shareholders.
Besides The committee reviews the companys published results, attendances at various industry conferences, a minimum the effectiveness of its systems of internal control, legal of two roadshows during the year are undertaken to and regulatory compliance including the Sarbanesenable company representatives to interact directly with Oxley Act, and the cost effectiveness of the services shareholders and other interested parties.
The board provided by the external auditors.
The audit committee believes that with the increasing use of the internet and has implemented a policy regarding the provision, and inclusion of the companys announcements and pre-approval thereof, of non-audit services by the external publications being placed on its website, that this is an auditors and this mandate is reviewed annually.
appropriate method of communication with shareholders.
The board encourages shareholders to access the The committee meets regularly and this includes quarterly annual report from the website rather than having this meetings which are used to consider and approve the sent by post in printed form.
The external auditors are regularly invited to attend meetings to report on their The board believes that the annual general meeting is activities.
The committee also meets with the external an appropriate forum for contact with shareholders and auditors, independent of the executive directors or encourages their attendance and participation.
management, where this is deemed necessary.
In order to reflect the sentiment of shareholders at the The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required companies annual general meeting, it has been an unwritten policy to establish whistle-blower systems.
The geographical that all resolutions should be considered by way of a spread of the groups activities, particularly in remote ballot poll and the number of proxies received disclosed West African locations, makes the establishment of such to the members in attendance.
It was felt appropriate for the senior Randgold Resources Annual Report 2005 35
