Corporate governance The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in provides cover in situations where a Director has acted fraudulently accordance with the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate or dishonestly.
Governance issued in July 2003 and annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code.
This statement explains Chairman and Chief Executive how the Company applies the principles of the Code.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company, with the Chairman responsible for the effective operation of the Board Board, encouraging the active participation of all Directors, and The Directors believe that it is essential that the Company should be the Chief Executive responsible for the running of the Companys both led and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted businesses.
The Board has approved formal statements describing a formal statement of its powers, duties and responsibilities, and the role and remit of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive, recognises that its main functions are as follows: which emphasise this division of their responsibilities.
agreeing objectives, policies and strategies, and monitoring the The Board is mindful of the need to ensure that the Chairman has performance of the executive management: enough time available to devote to the job.
Alun Cathcarts other significant commitments are described in his brief biography shown keeping under review the general progress and long term on page 27.
The changes to those commitments that took place during development of the Group in light of the political, economic and the year are shown in the Directors Report on page 28.
These changes social environments in which it operates: had no material impact upon the amount of time that he was able to devote to his chairmanship of The Rank Group Plc during 2005. controlling and monitoring the financial state and performance of the Group including investment and nancing plans, determining Board balance and independence the desired financial ratios, approving the objectives of the Group The Board includes a balance of executive and independent Five Year Business Plan: non-executive Directors, whose biographical details are given on page 27.
John Sunderland has been nominated as the Senior deciding on major changes in organisation and the shape of the Independent Director.
Richard Greenhalgh will assume the role Group, including entry into new elds of operation and departure of Senior Independent Director, following John Sunderlands from those which are no longer appropriate: retirement at the conclusion of the upcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have wide-ranging business experience, approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Boards including, for example, acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and decision-making process.
significant supply arrangements: Appointment of the Board ensuring that the Group pursues sound and proper policies in The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous and relation to: transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
a safety, health and environmental matters: and The Board has formalised and adopted terms of reference for its Nominations Committee which are available on request to the Company b corporate governance: Secretary and are included on the Companys website.
A report of the Nominations Committees work during 2005 is given on page 38. delegating clear responsibility and authority to the Chairman, Committees of the Board, the Chief Executive, Directors or groups The Board has agreed the terms and conditions for the appointment of Directors, Ofcers and others: and of non-executive Directors, which are also available for inspection and comply with the Code.
giving approval or support, as appropriate, to the most senior appointments in the Group and ensuring that adequate career Information and professional development development, succession and remuneration arrangements exist The Board receives a steady ow of information to enable it to for them.
discharge its duties, including a monthly report detailing current and forecast trading results and treasury positions.
It also receives regular There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
updates on shareholders views as part of the monthly report, and more formal briengs on shareholders views are given to the Board following Regular Board meetings are held not less than eight meetings in a the presentation of the Companys interim and annual results.
At least one meeting is devoted to strategy, and is held offsite from papers are generally distributed not less than five days in advance the Companys London ofce.
The Board also aims to hold at least one of the relevant meeting to allow the Directors fully to prepare for meeting a year outside the UK to enable the Board to meet overseas meetings, and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all management.
Ad hoc meetings are also convened to attend to any Directors.
The Board is kept fully informed of developments within the matters requiring Board consideration in between regular meetings.
Companys businesses through regular presentations by divisional The Chairman holds at least one meeting a year with the non-executive management.
Induction programmes for newly-appointed Directors Directors without the executive Directors being present and, led by the are devised to ensure that Directors spend time with divisional Senior Independent Director, the non-executive Directors meet without management and can visit operational sites.
the Chairman present at least once a year to appraise his performance.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are against its Directors.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company followed, and to independent professional advice, if required, at the also indemnifies the Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity Companys expense.
The Rank Group Plc 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation year to ensure that external auditor independence is safeguarded.
The evaluation process for the performance of the Board as a whole, All non-audit services above a value of 50,000 to be performed and that of individual Directors, was carried out through one-on-one by the external auditors are required to be approved by the Audit meetings between the Chairman and each Director.
In addition, Committee and the Groups policy is that, where appropriate, led by John Sunderland, the Chairmans performance was evaluated non-audit work is put out to competitive tender.
Details of the by means of one-on-one meetings between John Sunderland and the years fees paid to the external auditors are given in note 3 on other non-executive Directors.
The views of the executive Directors page 57. were also taken into account during this process.
In addition to more routine items of business, in 2005 the Committee The Audit Committees performance and the effectiveness of received regular reports on the actions being taken to comply the external audit process were evaluated through the completion in due course with the internal controls requirements of S. 404 of of suitable questionnaires.
The Remuneration Committee considered the U. S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee also regularly reviewed and appraised its own performance during the year.
The results of arrangements by which employees may condentially raise concerns these evaluations, which were carried out by the members of the about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other Committees, were reviewed by the Board.
matters under the Groups whistleblowing policy.
Re-election of Directors The Finance Committee All Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at The Finance Committee is an executive Committee to which certain the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and specic authorities have been delegated by the Board, principally thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
Non-executive in respect to capital expenditure authorisation and the nancing of Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject the Group.
The current members of the Committee are Alun Cathcart, to re-appointment.
Peter Gill and Ian Burke, who took over from Mike Smith on 6 March 2006.
The Audit Committee Ranks Audit Committee is comprised solely of independent The Nominations Committee non-executive Directors.
Details of the Committees membership The Nominations Committee is responsible for identifying and throughout 2005 are as follows: nominating, for the approval of the Board, all new Board appointments.
The Board believes that it is helpful for both the Chairman and the Date first Date of appointment Chief Executive to be formally involved in this process and thus appointed as Chairman both Alun Cathcart and Ian Burke are members of the Committee: its other members are Richard Greenhalgh and John Sunderland.
Oliver Stocken October 1998 May 2000 This composition does not comply with the Code in that the majority Brendan ONeill October 2004 N A of members of the Committee are not independent non-executive John Sunderland February 1998 N A Directors.
However, Brendan ONeill and John Warren will become members of the Committee at the conclusion of the 2006 Annual John Warren became a member of the Committee following General Meeting and the Committee membership will thereafter his appointment to the Board in January 2006 and he will take comply fully with the Code.
Bill Shannon will join the Committee over chairmanship of this Committee when Oliver Stocken and from the date of his appointment on 3 April 2006.
John Sunderland retire from the Board at the conclusion of the upcoming Annual General Meeting.
Bill Shannon will also join the The Committee met formally on five occasions during 2005 and Committee from the date of his appointment on 3 April 2006. agreed specications for new executive and non-executive Directors, The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee have taking into account the existing balance of skills, knowledge, and recent and relevant financial experience.
Normally the Chairman, experience on the Board, and engaged an external search consultant Chief Executive, Finance Director, Director of Finance and Taxation, to assist in the process of identifying suitable candidates which led Director of Risk Management and the Head of Internal Audit attend to the appointments of David Boden and Peter Gill.
The Committee Committee meetings, as do representatives of the external auditors.
also recommended and endorsed the appointments of John Warren, Ian Burke and Bill Shannon to the Board with effect from 1 January, The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on 6 March and 3 April 2006 respectively.
request to the Company Secretary, and are included on the Companys website.
The Remuneration Committee In 2005, Ranks Remuneration Committee was comprised solely In summary, the Committee assists the Board in reviewing the of independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired effectiveness of internal control systems.
The Committee also reviews by John Sunderland and its other members are Richard Greenhalgh financial statements to be published externally before their submission and Oliver Stocken.
The Remuneration Committee meets not less to the Board, to ensure that they present a fair assessment of the than twice a year and is responsible for determining the remuneration Groups position and prospects.
It also authorises any change in packages of the Chairman, the executive Directors, and other members accounting policies.
The Committee meets at least annually with the of the Executive Committee.
Details of the Remuneration Committees Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without management deliberations during 2005 are contained in the Remuneration Report being present.
on pages 30 to 36, which also summarises the Companys remuneration policy and contains details of Directors remuneration.
The Committee The Committee also keeps under review the independence met formally five times during 2005. and objectivity of the external auditors, and their effectiveness.
In particular, the Committee oversees the nature and amount of John Sunderland and Oliver Stocken are both retiring from the non-audit work undertaken by  LLP each Board at the end of the 2006 Annual General Meeting, at which The Rank Group Plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 point John Warren will join the Remuneration Committee and Risk management and internal control Richard Greenhalgh becomes its Chairman.
Bill Shannon will join The Board maintained the procedures necessary to comply with the Committee from the date of his appointment on 3 April 2006. the requirements of the existing code relating to internal control as described in the September 1999 guidance Internal Control: Attendance Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull Report.
Details of attendances of Directors and Committee members at the In relation to Code provision C. 2.1, the Board reports below on the principal Board and Committee meetings in 2005 are as follows: procedures that have been applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Finance Total 9 Total 4 Total 5 Total 5 Total 15 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
Alun Cathcart 9 5 15 The process has been in place throughout the year and up to the David Boden 7 date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It is regularly Peter Gill 5 7 reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance set out in the Richard Greenhalgh 9 4 4 Turnbull Report.
Brendan ONeill 8 4 Mike Smith 9 3 15 The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups Oliver Stocken 8 4 4 system of internal control, for setting policy on internal control and for John Sunderland 9 3 5 5 reviewing the effectiveness of internal control.
The role of management appointed 1 March 2005 is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of appointed 11 July 2005 internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of member of the Nominations Committee from 28 April 2005 failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In the very few instances when a Director was not able to attend Board or Committee meetings, his comments on the papers to be considered Considerable importance is placed on maintaining a strong control at that meeting were relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman.
In particular, there is a simple organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority: The Executive Committee adherence to specified codes of conduct is required at all times and The Executive Committee is not a committee of the Board.
Its role the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
is to assist the Chief Executive in fullling his responsibilities for directing and promoting the profitable operation and development A Group risk management policy has been produced and regular of the Group, consistent with the primary objective of creating long meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee take place, term shareholder value.
It currently consists of the Chief Executive, chaired by the Group Finance Director.
Finance Director, Company Secretary, Group Human Resources Director, and the Managing Directors of the Groups divisions.
The Group Risk Management Committee directs and reviews risk management activities within the Group, so that the significant risks Accountability and audit facing the Group can be reported to the Audit Committee and the The process by which the Board applies the principles of accountability Board.
The Group-wide risk assessment process includes a review that and audit is set out below, including a statement of the Directors covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance responsibilities in relation to the accounts.
The report to the Audit Committee also provides information on the management and control of Relations with shareholders significant risks and monitors compliance with the Group risk The Company maintains an active dialogue with its institutional management policy.
shareholders and city analysts through a planned programme of investor relations, and regular meetings are held with principal The Group has established an internal audit function that reports to the shareholders.
The outcome of these meetings is reported to the Company Secretary.
Detailed control procedures exist throughout the whole Board to ensure it keeps in touch with shareholder opinion.
operations of the Group and compliance is monitored by management, The programme includes formal presentations of the interim and internal auditors and, to the extent they consider necessary to support the full year results.
their audit report, the external auditors.
Additionally, the Gaming division has a compliance function that monitors day-to-day All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Meeting adherence to control procedures.
and private investors are encouraged to take advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions.
The Chairmen of the Audit, The Board recognises its obligations as a foreign registrant under the Remuneration and Nominations Committees attend the meeting US Securities and Exchange Commission, including the requirement and are available to answer questions, as appropriate.
A summary to comply where appropriate with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
presentation of the Companys results and development plans is A Disclosures Committee was established in 2003 to evaluate the given by the Chief Executive at the Annual General Meeting prior effectiveness of the Group and divisional disclosure controls and to the commencement of the formal business of that meeting.
procedures: the Committee met four times in 2005.
Additionally, work has continued to document and test the internal control Compliance with the Code provisions structure and procedures to comply with Section 404 of the Save in respect of the composition of the Nominations Committee Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
and the length of the notice period of the newly-appointed Finance Directors service contract, the Company has, throughout the year, The Company has announced its intention to terminate its registration complied with the provisions of the Code.
with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and thereby The Rank Group Plc 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued suspend its SEC reporting and other applicable US obligations, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
This is reliant upon the successful conclusion of the reduction of US holders to fewer than three hundred as set out in the Directors Report on page 28.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2005.
This has included consideration of the Group-wide risk assessment and the results of self-certication of internal control exercises undertaken throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has also considered reports from the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee has reported the results of its work to the Board.
The Board has considered these reports when undertaking its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Going concern After reviewing the Groups budget for 2006 and its medium term plans, the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Rank Group Plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2005
