159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 34 34 Report of the Audit Committees Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees business.
The functions of an audit committee in respect of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, in conjunction of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory with the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, the Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC Committees and has been approved by the respective and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles boards.
from the perspective of the parent companies and both Committees have access to the reports to and the work The report meets the requirements of the Combined Code of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the of Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Financial Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board in this respect.
The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any matters within their terms of reference and have access to Audit Committees all resources and information that they may require for this purpose.
The Committees are entitled to obtain legal and The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in other independent professional advice and have the authority relation to the respective companies are set out in written to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
terms of reference and include: A copy of the terms of reference of each Audit Committee i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the is published on the Reed Elsevier website, company, and any formal announcements relating to the www.
companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Committee membership ii to review the companys internal financial controls and the companys internal control and risk management The Committees each comprise at least three independent systems: non-executive directors.
The current members of each of the Committees are: Lord Sharman Chairman of the iii to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys Committees, David Reid and Strauss Zelnick.
Lord Sharman internal audit function: and David Reid are considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
iv to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general Lord Sharman 63, a chartered accountant, spent his meetings, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment professional career at KPMG and now serves as nonand removal of the external auditor and to approve executive Chairman of Aviva PLC and Aegis Group plc.
He is the remuneration and terms of engagement of the a member of the Supervisory Board of ABN-AMRO NV and a external auditor: non-executive director of BG Group plc.
He was elected UK senior partner of KPMG in 1994 and served as Chairman of v to review and monitor the external auditors KPMG Worldwide between 1997 and 1999.
David Reid 59, independence and objectivity and the effectiveness a chartered accountant, was appointed non-executive of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant Chairman of Tesco PLC in April 2004.
Prior to this professional and regulatory requirements: and appointment, he was executive Deputy Chairman, with responsibility for strategy, business development and vi to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of international operations: he was previously the finance the external auditor to supply non audit services, taking director of Tesco PLC.
Strauss Zelnick 48 is the founder into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the of Zelnick Media Corporation.
He is Chairman of Columbia provision of non audit services by the external audit firm, Music Entertainment Inc and OTX Corporation.
Prior to and to monitor compliance.
founding Zelnick Media he was President and Chief Executive Officer of BMG Entertainment.
The Committees report to the respective boards on their activities identifying any matters in respect of which they Appointments to the Committees are made on the consider that action or improvement is needed and making recommendation of the Nominations Committee and are recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
for periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three-year periods, so long as the member The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this continues to be independent.
Details of the remuneration role in respect of the publishing and information operating policy in respect of members of the Committees and the 159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 35 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 35 remuneration paid to members for the year ended In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect 31 December 2005 are set out in the Directors Remuneration of the 2005 financial year, the Committees have: Report on pages 37 to 53. i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group chief accountant that set out areas Committee activities of significance in the preparation of the financial statements, including: review of the carrying values of The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year: goodwill and intangible assets for possible impairment, around January, February, June, August and December, and review of estimated useful lives of intangible assets, report on these meetings to the respective boards at the next accounting for pensions and related assumptions, board meetings.
The principal business of these meetings accounting for share based remuneration and related includes: assumptions, accounting treatment for acquisitions January: review of critical accounting policies and and disposals, application of revenue recognition and practices, and significant financial reporting issues cost capitalisation, accounting for derivatives, review of and judgements made in connection with the annual tax reserves and provisions for lease obligations.
financial statements: review of internal control Discussion of reporting matters has focused on the effectiveness: reviewing and approving the internal adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards audit plan: review of internal audit findings with effect from the 2005 financial year and the related disclosures.
February: review and approval of annual financial statements, results announcement and related formal ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance statements: review of external audit findings with applicable accounting standards and other June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, disclosure requirements and have received regular update reports on accounting and regulatory performance, expertise, resources, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and the developments.
effectiveness of the external and internal audit process: agreeing the external audit plan: reviewing significant iii received and discussed regular reports on the management of material risks and reviewed the financial reporting issues and judgements arising in connection with the interim financial statements: review effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
As part of this review, detailed internal control evaluation and of risk management activities: review of report from external auditors on control matters: review of internal certification is obtained from management across the operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit audit findings and discussed with the Committees.
August: review and approval of the interim financial statements, results announcement and related formal iv received and discussed regular reports from the director statements: review of external audit findings: review of of internal audit summarising the status of the Reed internal audit findings Elsevier risk management activities and the findings from internal audit reviews and the actions agreed with December: review of year end financial reporting and management.
An area of focus in 2005 has been to accounting issues: review of significant external financial review the progress in implementing plans to meet the reporting and regulatory developments: review of external requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley audit findings to date: review of internal audit findings.
Act relating to the documentation and testing of internal financial controls.
The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended by the chief financial officer, group chief accountant, director v reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2005 of internal audit and senior representatives of the external and monitored execution.
Reviewed the resources and auditors.
Additionally, the managing director and senior budget of the internal audit function.
representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance BV attend the August and February meetings of the parent company Audit Committees.
At two or more of the meetings each year, the Committees additionally meet separately with the external auditors without management present, and also with the director of internal audit.
159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 36 36 Report of the Audit Committees The external auditors have attended all meetings of the Committees.
They have provided written reports at the June, August, December and February meetings summarising the most significant findings from their audit work.
These reports have been discussed by the Committees and actions agreed where necessary.
The external auditors have confirmed their independence from management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor independence.
This policy sets out inter alia the requirements for rotation of the lead, review and other senior partners, as well as guidelines for the provision of permitted non audit services.
The Committees have reviewed and agreed the non audit services provided by the external auditors, together with the associated fees.
The external auditors fees for audit services have been reviewed and approved by the Committees.
At their meeting in June 2005, the Committees conducted a formal review of the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process for both the external and internal audit activities.
Based on this review, and on their subsequent observations on the planning and execution of the external audit for the year ended 31 December 2005, the Committees have recommended to the respective boards that resolutions for the re-appointment of the external auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch Chairman of the Audit Committees 15 February 2006
