28 Corporate governance Corporate governance Structure Internal control Equalisation arrangements The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Under the equalisation arrangements entered into on exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities the merger of Reed Elsevier PLCs and Reed Elsevier and systems of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc NVs businesses in 1993, Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The board of Reed Elsevier have a 52.9% economic interest in Reed Elsevier, and Reed Group plc is responsible for the system of internal control Elsevier NV shareholders other than Reed Elsevier PLC of the publishing and information businesses, while the have a 47.1% economic interest in Reed Elsevier.
Holders boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are responsible for of ordinary shares in the two companies enjoy substantially the system of internal control in respect of the finance equivalent dividend and capital rights with respect to their group activities.
The boards of the two parent companies have agreed, except in exceptional circumstances, to The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with Finance BV have implemented an ongoing process for respect to the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks shares, the associated UK tax credit, based on the faced by their respective businesses.
This process has equalisation ratio.
been in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 and up to the date of the approvals of the Annual Corporate governance Reports and Financial Statements 2005.
Compliance with codes of best practice The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV As part of the year end procedures, the boards of Reed support the principles and provisions of corporate Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate and Elsevier Reed Finance BV have reviewed the Governance issued in July 2003 the UK Code and the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in December management during the last financial year.
The objective of 2003 the Dutch Code.
Other than as explained in the Reed these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005, of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they Reed Elsevier PLC, which has its primary listing on the can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance London Stock Exchange, and Reed Elsevier NV, which has against material misstatement or loss.
its primary listing on Euronext in Amsterdam, have complied throughout the period under review with In accordance with the Dutch Code, the boards have the UK Code and the Dutch Code respectively.
confirmed, subject to the above, that the respective risk management and control systems as regards financial Boards reporting risks provide reasonable assurance that the The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, financial reporting does not contain material inaccuracies Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and have functioned properly during the year.
each comprise a balance of executive and non-executive directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience With effect from the 2006 financial year, the Reed Elsevier to the deliberations of the boards.
combined businesses will be required to report on the reporting and audit requirements of Section 404 of the US The non-executive directors meet on an annual basis to Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and are on track to do so.
review the performance of individual directors and the functioning and constitution of the boards as a whole.
Going concern The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, Committees having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate In accordance with the principles of good corporate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in governance, the boards have established Audit, Nominations, operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committees.
therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A report of the Audit Committees is included in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005.
