159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 28 28 Structure and corporate governance Structure and corporate governance Structure Corporate governance Corporate structure Compliance with codes of best practice Reed Elsevier came into existence in January 1993, when The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their have implemented standards of corporate governance and businesses to two jointly owned companies, Reed Elsevier disclosure policies applicable to companies listed on the Group plc, a UK registered company which owns the stock exchanges of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands publishing and information businesses, and Elsevier Reed and the United States.
The effect of this is that a standard Finance BV, a Dutch registered company which owns the applying to one will, where practicable and not in conflict, financing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV also be observed by the other.
have retained their separate legal and national identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs securities The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are listed in London and New York, and Reed Elsevier NVs support the principles and provisions of corporate securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York.
governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 the UK Code and the Dutch Equalisation arrangements Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2003 Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% the Dutch Code.
Save as explained below, Reed Elsevier interest in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds PLC, which has its primary listing on the London Stock a 39% interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Elsevier Exchange, has complied throughout the period under review NV holding a 61% interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC additionally with the UK Code and Reed Elsevier NV, which has its holds an indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV, reflecting primary listing on Euronext in Amsterdam, has complied the arrangements entered into between the two companies throughout the period under review with the Dutch Code.
at the time of the merger, which determined the equalisation ratio whereby one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share is, in broad The ways in which the relevant principles of corporate terms, intended to confer equivalent economic interests to governance are applied and complied with within Reed 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
The equalisation Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc ratio is subject to change to reflect share splits and similar and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are described below.
events that affect the number of outstanding ordinary shares of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
The boards Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in Reed The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Elsevier, and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other than Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each Reed Elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic interest in Reed comprise a balance of executive and non-executive directors Elsevier.
Holders of ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the and Reed Elsevier NV enjoy substantially equivalent dividend deliberations of the boards.
All non-executive directors are and capital rights with respect to their ordinary shares.
independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV exercise of their independent judgement.
have agreed, except in exceptional circumstances, to recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with All directors have full and timely access to the information respect to the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary required to discharge their responsibilities fully and shares, the associated UK tax credit, based on the efficiently.
They have access to the services of the respective equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share pays company secretaries, other members of Reed Elseviers dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax law with respect management and staff, and its external advisors.
Directors to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV ordinary may take independent professional advice in the furtherance share pays dividends in euro and is subject to Dutch tax law of their duties, at the relevant companys expense.
with respect to dividend and capital rights.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc are harmonised.
All the directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are also directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders maintain their rights to appoint individuals to 159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 29 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 29 the respective boards, in accordance with the provisions of At the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meeting to be the Articles of Association of these companies.
Subject to this, held on 18 April 2006, Messrs van fide Aast, Elliott, van Lede, no individual may be appointed to the boards of Reed Elsevier Reid and Tierney will retire by rotation.
Being eligible, they PLC, Reed Elsevier NV either members of the Executive will each offer themselves for re-election.
Board or the Supervisory Board or Reed Elsevier Group plc unless recommended by the joint Nominations Committee.
Reed Elsevier NV Members of the Committee abstain when their own Reed Elsevier NV has a two-tier board structure comprising re-appointment is being considered.
a Supervisory Board of eight members, all of whom are independent non-executives, and an Executive Board of six In order to safeguard the agreed board harmonisation, members.
The Executive Board is responsible for the the Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier NV provide that management of the company and the Supervisory Board appointments of board members other than in accordance supervises the Executive Board.
The members of the with nominations by the combined board, shall require Supervisory Board are Jan Hommen Chairman appointed 2 a 3 majority if less than 50% of the share capital is 28 April 2005, Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, Mark Elliott, Cees van in attendance.
Given the still generally low attendance Lede, David Reid, Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg and rate at shareholders meetings in the Netherlands, the Strauss Zelnick appointed 28 April 2005.
The Executive boards believe that this qualified majority requirement Board comprises Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, is appropriate.
Mark Armour Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide Aast, Erik Engstrom, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney.
The On appointment and at regular intervals, directors receive board met six times during the year.
Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt and training appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Messrs Elliott, Reid, Stomberg and Lord Sharman were This includes the provision of a tailored induction each unable to attend one meeting.
Mr van Lede was programme, so as to provide newly appointed directors with unable to attend two meetings, otherwise there was information about the Reed Elsevier businesses and other full attendance.
relevant information to assist them in performing their duties.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to visit At the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting to be held the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet directors and on 19 April 2006, Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt and Messrs Elliott, senior executives.
van Lede and Reid will retire by rotation as members of the Supervisory Board, and Messrs van fide Aast and Tierney will All Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV directors are retire by rotation as members of the Executive Board.
Being subject to retirement at least every three years, and are eligible, they will each offer themselves for re-election.
able then to make themselves available for re-election by shareholders at the respective Annual General Meetings.
Reed Elsevier Group plc The Reed Elsevier Group plc board consists of six executive As a general rule, non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier directors: Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, PLC and members of the Reed Elsevier NV supervisory board Mark Armour Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide Aast, serve on the respective board for two, three year terms, Erik Engstrom, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney, and although the boards may invite individual directors to serve seven independent non-executive directors: Jan Hommen up to one additional three year term.
Chairman appointed 28 April 2005, Mark Elliott, Cees van Lede, David Reid, Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg and Strauss Reed Elsevier PLC Zelnick appointed 28 April 2005.
The board met seven times The Reed Elsevier PLC board consists of six executive during the year.
Messrs Elliott, Reid, Stomberg and directors: Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Lord Sharman were each unable to attend one meeting.
Mark Armour Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide Aast, Mr van Lede was unable to attend two meetings, otherwise Erik Engstrom, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney, and there was full attendance.
seven independent non-executive directors: Jan Hommen Chairman appointed 27 April 2005, Mark Elliott, Biographical information in respect of the current members Cees van Lede, David Reid, Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg of the boards appears on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual senior independent non-executive director and Strauss Review and Summary Financial Statements.
The board met six times during the year.
Messrs Elliott, Reid, Stomberg and Elsevier Reed Finance BV Lord Sharman were each unable to attend one meeting.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier board structure Mr van Lede was unable to attend two meetings, otherwise comprising a Supervisory Board and an Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board during the year comprised Roelof 159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 30 30 Structure and corporate governance Nelissen Chairman, Mark Armour and Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, executive directors and, led by the senior independent with the Management Board consisting of Willem Boellaard director, also assessed the performance of the Chairman.
Appointments to the Supervisory and Using questionnaires completed by all directors, the Management Boards are made by the shareholders, in Committee reviewed the functioning and constitution of the accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
Based on these assessments, The Management Board and the Supervisory Board met the Committee believes that the performance of each three times during the year.
Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt was director continues to be effective and that they demonstrate unable to attend one meeting, otherwise there was full commitment to their respective roles in Reed Elsevier.
Mr Nelissen retired from the Supervisory Board on 31 December 2005 and Mr Rudolf van den Brink was The Committee is also responsible for recommending the structure and operation of the various committees of the appointed a member and Chairman of the Supervisory Board at that time.
boards and the qualifications and criteria for membership of each Committee, including the independence of members of the boards.
Board committees Nominations Committee Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, the following committees, all of which have joint Nominations Committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors written terms of reference, have been established by the respective boards.
The terms of reference of these to the boards.
The Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The Committee committees are published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
is chaired by Jan Hommen, the other members being Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Cees van Lede, Audit Committees Lord Sharman and Rolf Stomberg.
Although he is not independent, the boards believe that it is appropriate for the Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc have established Audit Committees.
The Chief Executive Officer to be a member of the Committee, since he provides a perspective which assists the Committees comprise only non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
The Committees are chaired by Committee in nominating candidates to the board who will be able to work as a team with both the executive Lord Sharman, the other members being David Reid and Strauss Zelnick.
A report of the Audit Committees, setting and non-executive directors.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Mr Tabaksblat, who retired in April 2005, was out the role of the Committees and their main activities during the year, appears on pages 34 to 36. unable to attend one meeting and Lord Sharman was unable to attend two meetings, otherwise there was full attendance.
The Committees met five times during the year, and there The Committees terms of reference include assuring board was full attendance.
succession and making recommendations to the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier The functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing activities are carried out by the supervisory board Group plc concerning the appointment or reappointment of directors to, and the retirement of directors from, those of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
In conjunction with the Chairman of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Remuneration Committee and external consultants, Corporate Governance Committee Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established the Committee is also responsible for developing proposals for the remuneration and fees for new directors.
a joint Corporate Governance Committee, which comprises only non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
Based on the assessment by the Corporate Governance The Committee is chaired by Jan Hommen, the other members being Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, Mark Elliott, Cees van Committee of the qualifications and performance of each individual director, the Nominations Committee recommends Lede, David Reid, Lord Sharman, Rolf Stomberg and Strauss Zelnick.
The Committee met once during the year.
Mrs fide the re-appointment of the directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meetings in 2006.
Boer-Kruyt was unable to attend the meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
Remuneration Committee During the period the Committee reviewed ongoing Reed Elsevier Group plc has established a Remuneration developments and best practice in corporate governance.
Committee which comprises only independent non-executive The Committee assessed the performance of individual directors.
The Committee is chaired by Rolf Stomberg, the 159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 31 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 31 other members being Mark Elliott and Cees van Lede.
with shareholders, reflecting the requirements of the The Committee met six times during the year.
was unable to attend one meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
Internal control The Committee is responsible for recommending to the board the remuneration in all its forms of executive Parent companies directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, and provides advice The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV to the Chief Executive Officer on the remuneration of exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities and executives at a senior level below the board.
It also makes systems of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and recommendations to the board of Reed Elsevier PLC and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC to the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV regarding the and Reed Elsevier NV have each adopted a schedule of remuneration of the executive directors of these companies.
matters which are required to be brought to them for decision.
In relation to Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier The fees of non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Finance BV, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed of the Supervisory Board members of Reed Elsevier NV are Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual budgets, determined by the Board of Directors, within the limits set out and receive regular reports on the operations, including in the Articles of Association, as approved by shareholders.
the treasury and risk management activities, of the two companies.
Major transactions proposed by the boards of A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been approved Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV require by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC the approval of the boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 37 to 53.
This report Reed Elsevier NV.
also serves as disclosure of the directors remuneration policy, and the remuneration and interests in shares of the The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit directors of two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Committees meet on a regular basis to review the systems of Reed Elsevier NV.
internal control and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Relations with shareholders Operating companies The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in system of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, and and information businesses, while the boards of Elsevier presentations on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses Reed Finance BV are responsible for the system of internal are made after the announcement of the interim and full year control in respect of the finance group activities.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes and views of are also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of their the companies institutional shareholders and the results are system of internal control.
the subject of formal presentations to the respective boards.
A trading update is provided at the respective Annual General The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Meetings of the two companies, and near the end of the Finance BV have implemented an ongoing process for financial year.
The Annual General Meetings provide an identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the opportunity for the boards to communicate with individual more significant risks faced by their respective businesses.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, This process has been in place throughout the year ended the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairmen of the board 31 December 2005 and up to the date of the approvals committees, other directors and a representative of the of the Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005. external auditors are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The interim and annual results announcements Reed Elsevier Group plc and presentations, together with the trading updates and Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established framework other important announcements and corporate governance of procedures and internal controls, and with which the documents concerning Reed Elsevier, are published on the management of each business is required to comply.
Group Reed Elsevier website, www.
businesses are required to maintain systems of internal control, which are appropriate to the nature and scale of their The Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV has adopted rules activities and address all significant operational and financial governing the functioning of the boards and the relationship risks that they face.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc 159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 32 32 Structure and corporate governance has adopted a schedule of matters that are required to be of the Elsevier Reed Finance BV group is reviewed each year brought to it for decision.
Reed Elsevier Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business Annual review Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business As part of the year end procedures, the boards of Reed goals and requires officers and employees to behave in Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and an open, honest, ethical and principled manner.
The Code Elsevier Reed Finance BV have reviewed the effectiveness of also outlines confidential procedures enabling employees the systems of internal control and risk management during to report any concerns about compliance, or about Reed the last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to Elseviers financial reporting practice.
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide Each Business Group has identified and evaluated its major reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material risks, the controls in place to manage those risks and the misstatement or loss.
level of residual risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures are embedded into the operations of the business In accordance with the Dutch Code, the boards have and include the monitoring of progress in areas for confirmed, subject to the above, that the respective risk improvement that come to management and board attention.
management and control systems as regards financial The major risks identified include business continuity, reporting risks provide reasonable assurance that the protection of IT systems and data, challenges to intellectual financial reporting does not contain material inaccuracies property rights, management of strategic and operational and have functioned properly during the year.
change, evaluation and integration of acquisitions, and recruitment and retention of personnel.
With effect from the 2006 financial year, the Reed Elsevier combined businesses will be required to report on the The major strategic risks facing the Reed Elsevier Group plc reporting and audit requirements of Section 404 of the businesses are considered by the board.
Litigation and other US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and are on track to do so.
legal and regulatory matters are managed by legal directors in Europe and the United States.
Responsibilities in respect of the The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives regular financial statements reports on the management of material risks and reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from both internal and external auditors on internal The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed control matters.
In addition, each Business Group is required, Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required at the end of the financial year, to review the effectiveness of its to prepare financial statements as at the end of each financial internal controls and report its findings on a detailed basis to period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, the management of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
These reports are and of the profit or loss, of the respective companies and summarised and, as part of the annual review of effectiveness, their subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
They are submitted to the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the board on safeguarding assets, and for taking reasonable steps to any significant internal control matters arising.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for selecting suitable accounting policies Elsevier Reed Finance BV and applying them on a consistent basis, making judgments Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, and estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
which are applied for all Elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
The boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have Applicable accounting standards have been followed and the adopted schedules of matters that are required to be brought Reed Elsevier combined financial statements, which are the to them for decision.
Procedures are in place for monitoring responsibility of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed the activities of the finance group, including a comprehensive Elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies which treasury reporting system.
The major risks affecting the comply with International Financial Reporting Standards.
finance group have been identified and evaluated and are subject to regular review.
The controls in place to manage these risks and the level of residual risk accepted are monitored by the boards.
The internal control system 159711 Reed Report 28-54 7 3 06 12:04 Page 33 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 33 US certifications Going concern As required by Section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, 2002 and by related rules issued by the US Securities and having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate Exchange Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, Elsevier NV certify in the respective Annual Reports 2005 therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis on Form 20-F filed with the Commission that they are in preparing the financial statements.
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that they have: designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to Reed Elsevier is made known to them: evaluated the effectiveness of Reed Elseviers disclosure controls and procedures: based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management or other employees who have a significant role in Reed Elsevier internal controls: and presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2005 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other senior Reed Elsevier managers, provides assurance to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding their certifications.
