AR 2005. qxd 2 8 05 11:53 am Page 15 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of The senior independent director role is rotated between corporate governance.
the non-executive directors on an annual basis.
The senior independent director for the year ended 30th June 2005 was This report, together with the Directors remuneration report on David Snowden and the senior independent director for the page 18 sets out how the Company has applied the principles of year beginning 1st July 2005 is Terry Garthwaite.
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The directors holding office at the date of this report and their biographical details are given on pages 4 and 5.
Directors Appointments to the Board The Board The remuneration and nomination committee is the committee The Board comprises five executive and three non-executive responsible for reviewing the structure and composition of the directors.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, Board and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
management of effective business controls and review of All the members of this committee are non-executive directors business performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters and a list of membership and the chair of the committee is set specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include the approval out on page 5.
The terms of reference of this committee are of annual and interim results, acquisitions and disposals, major published on the Companys website.
capital expenditure, borrowings, material agreements, senior executive appointments and removals including the company No new appointments to the Board have been made during the secretary, any patent-related dispute and other material litigation, year.
The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are forecasts and major product development projects.
available for inspection at the annual general meeting and at the registered office upon written request.
The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties effectively.
In the financial year ended 30th June 2005, the Board Information and professional development met 7 times and the directors attendance record at Board and The Board receives appropriate documentation, management committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
The nonaccounts, forecasts and commentaries thereon in advance executive directors met a number of times without executive of each Board meeting to enable its members to review the directors present.
financial performance of the Group, current trading and key The Board has two formally constituted committees, the audit business initiatives.
committee and the remuneration and nomination committee.
Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training There is an executive committee known as the Executive Board courses to update their knowledge of their duties as directors.
that is responsible for the executive management of the Groups Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations are provided businesses.
It is chaired by the Chairman and includes the as appropriate.
Non-executive directors are invited to attend executive directors of Renishaw plc and the President of internal conferences, which provide information to the Group Renishaw Inc. on new product development and marketing initiatives.
A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps out All directors have access to the company secretary and to the structure of delegation below Board level and includes independent professional advice at the Companys expense the matters reserved to the Executive Board.
where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as director.
Chairman and Chief Executive Performance evaluation The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and The Board has established a formal process, led by the thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
However, the senior independent director, for the annual evaluation of the Board considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities at performance of the Board and the Chairman.
This included the Board level to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
completion of a questionnaire designed and approved by the Board to provide a framework for the evaluation process.
Board balance and independence Each of the three non-executive directors is considered by the The senior independent director summarised the responses and Board to be independent in character and judgement and there discussed them with the individual directors and with the Board are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect a as a whole.
The exercise was viewed positively by the Board.
The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Board does not comply with this requirement as it considers the balance of the Board to be appropriate for the size of business.
15 AR 2005. qxd 3 8 05 11:17 am Page 16 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: CONTINUED Re-election and relevant financial experience, being T B Garthwaite and In the past, in accordance with the articles of association of T D Snowden.
The terms of reference of this committee were the Company, all directors apart from the Chairman and Chief reviewed during the year and are available on the Companys Executive and the Deputy Chairman have offered themselves website at www.
up for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
To The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures of comply with the Code the re-election process must apply to all the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before directors.
It is intended that the articles of association will be submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory amended by special resolution at the forthcoming annual general requirements.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of meeting at which both the Chairman and Chief Executive and the the internal audit function.
Deputy Chairman will offer themselves up for re-election.
The The committee has primary responsibility for making the biographical details of the Chairman and Chief Executive and the recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and Deputy Chairman are set out on page 4. removal of external auditors which the Board puts to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting.
It Directors remuneration keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its The Directors remuneration report set out on page 18 cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the explains how the Company applies the Code principles auditors.
The auditors provide a confirmation of independence relating to remuneration.
The committee reviews the nature and extent of the non-audit Accountability and audit services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular reports on the Financial reporting balance of audit to non-audit fees.
The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in The committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial connection with the financial statements are explained in the statements and announcements relating to financial performance Statement of directors responsibilities and the Auditors report.
and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
Going concern The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the On the basis of current financial projections and available funds Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, including and facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they Finance Director, the Group Audit Manager and the external continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the auditors in attendance.
At least one meeting, or part, is held with financial statements.
the external auditors without executive directors present.
Internal control Relations with shareholders The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal Dialogue with institutional shareholders control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Presentations are given to institutional investors following There is an ongoing process for the review of business risks publication of the half-year and full-year results, when interim throughout the Group.
These are reported on a monthly basis by and annual reports are delivered to all shareholders.
Institutional senior management and by overseas subsidiaries.
These reports investors are actively encouraged to visit the Companys are reviewed by the Board at each of their meetings.
headquarters and manufacturing sites where they will meet at The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the least one of the executive directors and have the opportunity effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and an of discussing any issues with them.
Meetings with investors, updated risk and controls analysis for the Group.
The review analysts and media are reported at each Board meeting so that covers all material controls, including financial, operational and all the Board develop an understanding of the views of investors compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for If requested, non-executive directors are available to attend identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing meetings with major shareholders.
the Group that has been in place during the year, and which is All directors attend the annual general meeting at which they regularly reviewed and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
have the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
Audit committee and auditors The audit committee comprises non-executive directors.
A list of members and the chairman is set out on page 5.
The Board is satisfied that at least two members of the committee have recent 16 RENISHAW ANNUAL REPORT 2005 AR 2005. qxd 2 8 05 11:53 am Page 17 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: CONTINUED Constructive use of the annual general meeting Compliance statement The annual general meeting takes place at the Companys The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements headquarters and formal notification is sent to the shareholders of the Code except in relation to the following matters the at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A business reasons for non-compliance are stated in the report above : presentation is given at the meeting and all directors are available the combined role of chairman and chief executive: for questions during and after the meeting.
Tours of the in accordance with the articles of association, the Companys research and development and manufacturing Chairman and Chief Executive and the Deputy Chairman facilities are offered.
were not subject to re-election by shareholders.
It is The Company reports to shareholders attending the annual proposed that the articles of association are amended at general meeting and by publication on its website following the the annual general meeting to be held in October 2005: meeting, on the number of proxy votes lodged on each at least half the board, excluding the chairman, does not resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and comprise independent non-executive directors.
the number of abstentions after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
A C G Roberts FCA Board and committee membership attendance record Secretary Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings 28th July 2005 of the Board and its committees at which the director was present and, in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was eligible to attend during the year.
Director Board AC R&NC D R McMurtry 7 7 - - D J Deer 7 7 - - B R Taylor 7 7 - - A C G Roberts 7 7 - - G McFarland 7 7 - - J P McGeehan 6 7 3 3 4 5 T D Snowden 6 7 3 3 5 5 T B Garthwaite 7 7 3 3 5 5 AC - Audit committee: R&NC - Remuneration and nomination committee 17
