Audit Committee Report Terms of reference The companys audit committee the committee is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code and its terms of reference were updated at the beginning of 2004 to reflect the Smith Guidance.
The terms of reference of the committee may be found on the companys website, www.
com, or if a hard copy is required by application to the company secretarys department at the companys head office.
The committee is authorised by the board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information that it requires from any employee of the company and its subsidiaries and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the committee.
The committee has the right to consult the companys professional advisors or, if it is not satisfied with the advice received, seek further independent professional advice at the companys expense in the furtherance of its duties.
Members The members of the committee during the year were Mr I Harley chairman, Chartered Accountant, Mr P Long, Chartered Management Accountant, and Mr P Mason.
Mr D Tatton-Brown, Chartered Management Accountant, was appointed to the committee in October 2005.
The nomination committee reviews membership of the committee and recommendations are made by it to the board.
The committee is normally comprised of three or more independent non-executive directors and two members constitute a quorum.
In common with other members of the board, the members of the committee are provided with an induction programme when they join the board.
Ongoing training includes attendance at board seminars and briefings by external advisors.
The committee believes that the skills, qualifications and commercial experience of its members are appropriate for them to perform their duties in accordance with the terms of reference laid down by the board.
Attention is given, where relevant, to appropriate training programmes for new members of the committee.
Meetings In 2005, in addition to meeting in February, March, August and September, the committee met in May primarily to consider IFRS transition matters and again in October to consider a range of matters including a trading update for the first nine months of 2005, which replaced a previously scheduled update for the first ten months trading.
The committee meets routinely six times a year and additionally when necessary.
The regular matters to be considered for each meeting are set out in standing board procedures, which are designed to ensure that the committee properly considers all issues which fall within its terms of reference, but the committee and each member of it has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the standing items.
The committee invites the chief executive, the chief financial officer, director treasury and risk management, director corporate accounting and control, director corporate internal audit and representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings.
The director group secretariat attends meetings in his role as secretary of the committee.
The six committee meetings held during the year were attended by all committee members save that Mr Long was unable to attend one meeting by reason of prior business commitments.
Proceedings In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the committee reviews, challenges and approves, as the case may be, presentations or reports from senior management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
During the year the committee had a satisfactory level of dialogue with the companys auditors and did not find it necessary to seek external advice.
During the year, the committee specifically considered the following issues: In order to fulfil its responsibilities relating to external financial reporting, the committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and the two trading updates and the associated Stock Exchange announcements in accordance with its terms of reference.
36 Rentokil Initial plc Audit Committee Report As part of the companys review of its capital structure, the committee reviewed the companys capital requirements in the context of shareholders expectations, the potential for acquisition growth, the companys credit rating and the requirements to put in place a programme to deal with the liabilities relating to the companys UK defined benefit pension scheme deficit.
The committee specifically reviewed the proposals relating to the payment of 200 million to the UK pension scheme in December 2005 and the related commitment to fund the remaining deficit of approximately 150 million over a six to seven-year period.
The committee reviewed the arrangements for the introduction of a new holding company for the group in June 2005 see the Report of the Directors on page 28 and in particular reviewed the listing particulars and the supporting material provided by the companys legal and financial advisers.
The committee reviewed and approved a revision to the policy on the identification and calculation of portfolio to assist in the elimination of potential inconsistencies that might arise in the reporting from underlying business units.
The committee reviewed the companys planning for and adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which principally affected the accounting for employee benefits, business combinations and financial instruments.
The committee reviewed the companys Transition Document provided to the market in July 2005 to assist the markets understanding of the principal effects of IFRS on the companys financial statements, as well as reviewing in particular the presentation of the companys results under IFRS for the first six months and for the full year.
The committee established a formal policy on the engagement of auditors to supply non-audit services that takes into account considerations of independence and relevant ethical guidance concerning the provision of non-audit services by an external audit firm.
The policy provides a framework under which the committee would approve normal audit assignments above an agreed threshold.
A subcommittee was established to approve any such arrangements.
The level of provisions and reserves.
Litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the company and its subsidiaries.
The companys compliance with statutory tax obligations and related provisions.
The review of the companys internal control systems and risk management systems in the light of reports submitted by management, the internal audit department and the external auditors see also Accountability and Audit below.
Reports on the system of internal controls and risk management reporting.
Reports on treasury policies, procedures and delegated authorities.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the independence of the external auditors, the committee reviewed the external auditors plan for the current year, the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship and a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements for the identification, reporting and management of any conflicts of interest and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
The committee reviewed the exceptional circumstances during the year, relating mainly to the Raphoe bid threat, the establishment of the new holding company and due diligence relating to disposals contemplated or completed during the year, which resulted in a higher than usual level of non-audit fees.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees are set out in note 4 to the accounts on page 77.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors and to fulfil its responsibilities for oversight of the external audit process, the committee reviewed the following: the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year, quality control procedures and steps taken by the external auditors to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements: the external auditors fee proposal: the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution including key accounting and audit judgements : Rentokil Initial plc Audit Committee Report 37 Audit Committee Report continued the level of unadjusted misstatements identified during the audit: and the recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letter and the adequacy of managements response.
To fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of resources and standing of the internal audit function, the committee has reviewed the following: the internal audit departments terms of reference, which were updated during the year to encompass fully the process of business risk assessment and evaluation, reporting lines and access to the committee, which were formalised at the beginning of the year: its operational, financial and information technology audit plans and achievement of the planned activity: and the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the mix of skills within the internal audit team, particularly over the audit of IT systems where capability and capacity had been upgraded.
The director corporate internal audit is required to report to the committee bi-annually on the monitoring of whistleblowing procedures, the receipt of complaints and the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
Additional specific reports are made by the director corporate internal audit in relation to significant matters.
During the year, no material whistleblowing matters were reported to the committee.
The committee reviewed and approved guidelines to assist subsidiary companies over their interpretation and compliance with the companys Code of Ethics.
In addition, the chairman of the committee participated in the process, led by the nomination committee, over the identification and appointment of the chief financial officer, Mr Andrew Macfarlane, who joined the company during the year.
Accountability and audit The annual report provides information on and an assessment of the companys business, operations, financial position and prospects.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and reviews the effectiveness of the system at least annually in order to safeguard shareholders investments and the companys assets.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The committee assists the board in the performance of its responsibilities by reviewing the board procedures for review of internal controls, internal and external auditors reports on internal control issues and reports on internal controls and risk management systems.
The board's procedures for the review of internal controls, contained within its manual on procedures and practices, provide the framework for the group's risks and how these are assessed, managed and monitored.
The risk identification and management process has been in place during the whole of 2005 and up to 29 March 2006, the date of the approval of the audited 2005 accounts and during that time the board, with the assistance of the committee, has reviewed the process.
The process used to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls includes the review of reports on a six-monthly basis on legal compliance, claims issues, health and safety issues and environment issues.
Insurance, risk management and treasury issues are reviewed annually or more frequently if necessary.
In addition, the committee reviews the scope of external audit, the half-yearly and annual financial statements including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and trading updates and reports to the board on financial issues raised by both internal and external audit reports.
The committee receives reports from the internal audit department, covering financial, operational and information technology risks and controls and reviews the performance of the department against its terms of reference.
38 Rentokil Initial plc Audit Committee Report The review of the Combined Code conducted during 2005 by the Flint committee strongly endorsed the retention of a flexible, principles-based approach to accountability and internal controls.
The establishment of an effective system of internal controls is an iterative process, taking account of new and emerging risks, identified control failures or changes in company circumstances or structure.
Changes in the management structure introduced in 2005 and an increased level of delegated authority to the divisions and operating businesses introduce changes in the control environment which need to be monitored and tested to ensure that the group's internal controls and risk management procedures continue to be effective.
Aspects of the group's internal control framework are being revised and updated in the light of these changes and also to incorporate the limited changes needed following the Flint review.
Approval This report was approved by the board of directors on 29 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by Mr Ian Harley.
Ian Harley Chairman of the Audit Committee 29 March 2006 Rentokil Initial plc Audit Committee Report 39
