Corporate governance report Compliance of businesses and high level financial decisions.
All capital The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code expenditure projects over 10m or any capital expenditure contains main principles, supporting principles and provisions project which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the concerning corporate governance.
This report, together with Groups financial criteria require Board approval.
the Directors report and the Remuneration report, provides a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the main and Further details on internal control are set out on pages 42 and 43. supporting principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
The Groups governance policies There were eight Board meetings during 2005.
All directors were are monitored by the Board and kept under constant review.
present at each meeting with the exception of the meeting in February 2005 when Bill Barker was unable to attend.
W here a Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 the Company has member of the Board cannot be present at a meeting, he receives complied with all of the provisions of the Code with the following a full copy of the papers in advance of such meeting and is given exception.
Rolf B rjesson succeeded Jeremy Lancaster as Chairman the opportunity to comment on the matters to be discussed.
of the Company in May 2004 and, as at that time all non executive directors served on the principal committees to ensure that there The names of the members of the Board committees are set out was an even balance of power and influence, he was appointed on pages 45 to 47, together with details of the meetings held as a member of the Remuneration and the Audit Committees.
The various Board committees have authority to However, as his membership of the Remuneration and Audit make decisions according to their terms of reference which are Committees was not in line with the Code Code provisions B.
2.1 more fully explained on pages 45 to 47.
The terms of reference and C. 3.1, he resigned as a member of both Committees with can be found on the Companys web site at www.
The Company is now in full compliance with the Code in relation to these provisions.
During the year Rolf B rjesson met with the non executive directors three times to discuss Board related issues on a less formal basis.
Directors These discussions covered areas including Group performance, strategy and succession planning.
The Board The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership The Groups global insurance programme is reviewed annually and to develop a coherent long term strategy for the Group.
Its and appropriate insurance cover has been obtained to protect other roles are to supervise the management, to maintain control the directors and senior management in the event of a claim over the Groups assets and to establish high ethical standards of being brought against any of them in their capacity as directors behaviour, together with developing robust corporate governance or officers of the Company.
and risk management practices and procedures.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Board monitors the performance of management and aims to Rexam has a non executive Chairman, a non executive senior ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures adopted are not independent director and a Chief Executive.
There is a clear only in the long term interest of shareholders but also meet the division of responsibility between the positions, with the Chairman needs of Rexams customers, employees, suppliers and the local responsible for the running of the Board and the Chief Executive communities in which Rexam operates.
responsible for the running of the Groups business.
Matters referred to the Board are considered by the Board as a The written job specifications for the roles of Chairman, senior whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
independent director and Chief Executive are reviewed annually There are well documented procedures and controls, including by the Nomination Committee.
a schedule of matters that require the Boards specific approval.
This provides the framework for the decisions to be taken by the Rolf B rjesson spends, on average, two days per week in his role Board and those which can be delegated to committees of the as Chairman.
He is also Chairman of Ahlsell AB, and a non Board.
The Board considers and approves all Board appointments executive director of Svenska Cellulosa AB and Avery Dennison and removals, the appointment and removal of the principal Corporation.
In 2005, he resigned as a non executive director advisers and auditors, changes to the Groups management of Copenhagen Airports A S. His external directorships do not and control structure, all matters relating to the Companys share make conflicting demands on his time as Chairman.
listing, the Groups strategy, including acquisition and disposal 39 Corporate governance report Christopher Clark, a non executive director, was the Deputy have served a continuous term of nine years.
Following the Chairman and senior independent director until 8 February performance evaluation and a rigorous review of David Tucker's 2006.
His retirement came as a result of his need to dedicate contribution, the Board strongly believes that David Tucker remains more time to his chairmanship roles at Associated British Ports independent and that his extensive knowledge of institutional Holdings PLC, W agon plc and Urenco Limited.
Carl Symon has shareholder and governance related matters, and his insight into replaced Christopher Clark as senior independent director and the strategic aims of the Company, enable him to continue to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Carl Symon is also provide an important and valued contribution to the Board.
The Chairman of HMV Group plc and a non executive director of BT Board has therefore agreed to extend David Tucker's appointment Group plc and Rolls-Royce Group plc.
These external directorships for a further year and, in compliance with the Code, he will stand are not expected to make conflicting demands on his time as for re-election at the Annual General Meeting 2006. senior independent director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
A biography of each member of the Board and details of their other directorships are given on page 35.
The Chief Executive, Lars Emilson, is a well respected and strong leader with an extensive knowledge of the consumer packaging The Board evaluates the membership of its individual Board industry.
He played a key role in the integration of the PLM, ANC committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that the principal and Latasa acquisitions and in Rexams transformation of its committees have different non executive directors as chairman.
beverage can business into a position of world leadership.
Appointments to the Board Board balance and independence Recommendations for appointments to the Board are the The Board works as a team, but independence of thought and responsibility of the Nomination Committee.
The majority of approach is encouraged.
Directors of different nationalities with the members of the Committee are independent non executive wide international experience have been appointed as a majority directors.
The Committee regularly reviews and considers the of Rexams activities are overseas.
At all times during the year the ongoing membership of the Board, sets job descriptions and Board balance has been in compliance with the Code and at objective criteria for Board and senior executive appointments 31 December 2005 the Board was made up of four executive and succession planning.
The terms of reference set out more fully directors and five non executive directors.
All of the non executive the responsibilities of this Committee and can be found on the directors are considered under the Code to be independent with Company's web site, www.
the exception of Rolf B rjesson who was not considered to be independent at the date of his appointment on 25 May 2004 All new Board appointments are conducted through a formal, as he had previously been Chief Executive of the Company.
The rigorous and transparent procedure between the Group Director Companys major institutional shareholders were consulted about Human Resources, the Nomination Committee and the Board.
the appointment of Rolf B rjesson as Chairman and they continue For the appointment of external candidates to the Board, the to be fully supportive of the appointment.
Nomination Committee instructs and works alongside recruitment consultants to evaluate and meet prospective candidates who are ith the retirement of Christopher Clark on 8 Februar W y 2006 the then considered and, if appropriate, are recommended to the full number of non executive directors has fallen to four.
The Board Board for approval.
This procedure was followed in 2005 leading recognises that, as a result of Christopher Clark's retirement, the to the appointment of David Robbie as Finance Director.
Company is not currently in compliance with provision A.
A process is already under way to recruit further The Committee also has responsibility for succession planning and, independent non executive directors.
in doing so, identifies through the management review process any internal people whose skills, experience and contribution to Influence is balanced within the Board by virtue of the strong the Group would potentially benefit the Board.
The Committee independent elements of a non executive senior independent reviews membership of the Board on a regular basis and will director and a further two non executive directors whose skills discuss possible internal candidates and Board positions with the and wide international business experience are invaluable in Group Director Human Resources.
If it is decided that an internal constructively challenging and developing the Groups strategy rather than an external appointment would be in the best interests and direction.
of the Board, the Committee meets with the prospective candidates who are then considered and, if appropriate, one is recommended David Tucker was appointed as a non executive director on to the full Board for approval.
The process leading to the appointment 22 May 1997 and, at the Annual General Meeting 2006, he will of Bill Barker as Group Director Beverage Cans and his subsequent 40 Corporate governance report appointment as an executive director was conducted in this way Company Secretary is available to give ongoing advice to all as was Graham Chipchase's appointment as Group Director directors on Board procedures, corporate governance and Plastic Packaging.
Should a director reasonably request independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such Information and professional development advice is made available to him at the Companys expense.
For each scheduled Board meeting the Chairman and the Company Secretary ensure that, during the week before the meeting, the Performance evaluation directors receive a copy of the agenda for the meeting, Group and A formal performance evaluation of the Board and its members business financial and operating information to ensure that they was undertaken in 2005.
As in 2004, the Board chose to are properly apprised of the Groups current performance and conduct the process internally to benefit first hand from direct information on any other matter which is to be referred to the input from individual directors.
As part of the evaluation, the Board for consideration.
In the months where there is no scheduled directors completed evaluation forms on the basis shown below.
Board meeting, the directors receive the prior month and cumulative Group and business financial and operating information.
Evaluators Chairman Executive Non executive directors directors Newly appointed directors who have not previously held a Evaluating directorship in a UK listed company are given external training Board which focuses on their role on the Board.
They attend an Institute Board committees of Directors course, entitled Understanding the Board which covers the role and effectiveness of a director, the role of the The Chairman carried out a review of the completed evaluation Board and the legal responsibilities of a director.
The Chairman met individually with each director and then an extensive internal induction programme that introduces the formally reported the results of the evaluation process to the Board.
director to the Group and includes visiting various Group The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board who businesses.
The Company Secretary gives guidance on Board agreed that the results confirm the effectiveness of the directors' procedures and corporate governance.
All directors receive contribution and commitment.
The Board concluded that the ongoing training in matters that are relevant to their role on the process had been both constructive and informative.
W hilst no Board, such as, for example, the implementation of, and accounting significant issues were identified, the evaluation indicated specific under, International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Chairman areas for improvement including the need for more external input arranges for the directors to visit at least one of the Groups and market perspectives and more time devoted to emerging business locations and customer sites each year to ensure that issues so that the Board has early warning of and opportunity to their technical knowledge, skills and familiarity with the Groups familiarise itself with issues which may become more material for operations are updated and maintained.
During 2005, the Board the Group in the future.
W ith regard to the Board Committees, a visited the Beverage Can businesses in Recklinghausen, Germany number of relatively minor areas of improvement were identified, and Enzesfeld, Austria, and the filling operation and headquarters including timely external input on remuneration issues, increased of one of its beverage can customers in Austria.
Additionally, focus on succession planning for senior management roles and each member of the Group Management Committee GMC adequate time for considering matters where decisions are with responsibility for the Group's businesses, in turn, makes a requested on material issues.
A performance evaluation of the presentation at a Board meeting about their businesses, suppliers, Board will continue to be conducted annually and the process for customers, markets and strategy.
such evaluation will be reviewed by the Board.
The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is Re-election of directors responsible for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
This The Board ensures that each executive and non executive director includes taking minutes of the Board meetings and the recording should be required to submit himself for re-election by shareholders of any concerns relating to the running of the Company or proposed at least every three years.
Article 57 of the Companys Articles of actions arising therefrom that are expressed by a director in a Association states that a director should be proposed for election Board meeting.
He is also secretary to the Audit, Nomination and if he has been appointed to the Board since the date of the last Remuneration Committees.
Under the direction of the Chairman, Annual General Meeting, or proposed for re-election if he has he is responsible for the communication of relevant information held office for more than thirty months at the date of the notice between the Board, the GMC and senior management.
The convening the next Annual General Meeting.
41 Corporate governance report Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of The remuneration of the Chairman and senior independent director appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
is determined by the Remuneration Committee the Chairman or On appointment, an undertaking is requested from the non senior independent director absenting himself from the discussions executive director to ensure that he has sufficient time to fulfil and vote and non executive directors fees are recommended by his role on the Board.
The continued appointment of any non the Chairman and Chief Executive and approved by the Board.
executive director who has served on the Board for a period in excess of nine years will be subject to annual re-election at the Accountability and audit Annual General Meeting.
Financial reporting The Board will only recommend to shareholders that executive The intention of the Annual Report and the Interim Report is to and non executive directors be proposed for re-election at an provide a clear assessment of the performance and prospects Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of of Rexam.
The Company prepares a full Annual Report and an Association, after evaluating the performance of the individual Annual Review which qualifies as a Summary Financial Statement director.
and condenses and makes more readily understandable the information contained in the Annual Report.
Shareholders who Remuneration have not requested the Annual Report will receive the Annual Review.
In the Annual Report, following their annual audit, the Level and make-up of directors remuneration Groups auditors include an independent report to members.
The following sections on directors remuneration should be read The Interim Report includes a review report to the Company in conjunction with the Remuneration report.
prepared by the Groups auditors.
The Board recognises the importance of executive directors Internal control remuneration not only to motivate and retain the individuals There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing, concerned, but also in the wider context both within the Group monitoring and reporting the risks faced by the Group.
This formal and in comparable geographic and business areas.
In addition process of risk identification and analysis is the responsibility of to basic salary, benefits in kind and retirement benefits, executive all of the Group's businesses.
It has been completed for the 2005 directors remuneration is composed of both short term and long reporting year and up to the date of the approval of the Accounts.
term elements that are related to Group and business performance.
Meetings are held with management to review the results of their There is also a requirement in accordance with their contract of internal risk assessments and such meetings include the continuing employment for executive directors to build up shareholdings in evaluation and development of the process for reviewing the the Company following the exercise of share options to encourage effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control.
The Board, them to align with the interests of shareholders.
in reliance upon the detailed work carried out by the Audit Committee, confirms that it carried out a review of the effectiveness Fees for non executive directors are determined having regard of the system of internal control operated in the Group during to current market practice and the time spent on Rexams behalf.
2005 in accordance with the requirements of the Code and the They are not required to hold shares in the Company and do not guidance issued in September 1999 Internal Control: Guidance participate in any incentive or share option schemes.
Information for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
The as to directors basic salary, benefits in kind, short and long term Board will continue to carry out such reviews on an annual basis.
incentive arrangements and retirement benefits is disclosed in the This review covers all controls, namely financial, operational, Remuneration report.
In order to discharge its responsibilities in this regard the Board has established and Policy for directors remuneration regularly reviews the procedures necessary to implement the The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by the senior internal control requirements of the Code.
independent director, consists of all the independent non executive directors and determines remuneration levels and specific packages All directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining an appropriate for each executive director, taking into account the effective system of internal control within the Group.
Although no Groups annual salary negotiations.
No director is permitted to be system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against present when his own remuneration is being discussed, nor to vote material mis-statement or loss, the Groups systems are designed on his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee considers to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that assets are that the procedures in place provide a level of remuneration for safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly the directors which is both appropriate for the individuals concerned and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or and in the best interest of shareholders.
42 Corporate governance report The key procedures which the Board has established with a view all the independent non executive directors together with Rolf to providing effective internal control are: B rjesson until his resignation from the Committee on 23 February 2005.
The Board is satisfied that David Tucker, chairman of the i The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial Committee, who is a chartered accountant with extensive financial results to the Board.
An annual budget and strategic review experience through his past and present involvement with various are prepared for each business and are consolidated for review listed companies and pension trustee bodies, and Michael by the Board before being formally adopted.
During the year, Buzzacott, a qualified accountant who has held a number of monthly management accounts, including cash flow and senior financial positions in BP p. l. c. have recent and relevant capital expenditure reporting, are prepared with a comparison financial experience to enable them to discharge fully the duties against budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in the of the Committee.
Should it be requested, the Committee has light of this comparison and also reviewed by the Board.
access to independent expert advice at the Companys expense.
ii There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and levels of The Committee assists the Board in meeting its responsibilities in authority in operation throughout the Group, with specific ensuring an effective system of internal control and compliance matters reserved for the Board.
and accurate external financial reporting, including compliance as prescribed by law and under the Code.
iii Businesses are decentralised with operating autonomy and financial responsibility delegated to headquarter and The Committee approves the appointment of the head of internal local management to the extent that they have approval to audit.
The annual programme of internal audit assignments is operate within acceptable levels of authority and risk.
reviewed and approved by the Committee which also ensures that the involvement of the internal and external auditors is coiv There are formal written Group financial procedures and ordinated.
In 2005, the internal audit function and its performance, controls in operation, including specific procedures for treasury effectiveness and relationship with the external auditors was matters and the approval of significant contracts.
Headquarter assessed by the Committee and a report was made to the Board.
and local management are required to complete year end and During 2005, the Committee met independently with the Companys half year representation letters formally confirming that their auditors and also met separately with the head of internal audit to businesses comply with the Groups financial reporting policies discuss informally matters of interest.
The chairman of the Committee and other Group policies and procedures.
had meetings with the head of internal audit without any other member of management being present.
v An internal audit function monitors the accounting and financial control systems in operation throughout the Group The terms of reference of the Audit Committee set out more fully and reports on its findings to the Audit Committee.
the responsibilities of the Committee and can be found on the Company's web site, www.
The terms of reference vi An internal risk management function together with operational were reviewed during 2005 to clarify the Committee's management are responsible for monitoring the processes responsibilities with regard to tax, risk, insurance matters and within the Group which identify, evaluate and manage the the audit and risk committees that report into the Committee.
The significant risks faced by Group businesses.
Reports on their performance and effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed as findings are made to the Audit Committee.
part of the main performance appraisal of the Board and all its Committees.
vii All businesses have introduced an externally verified system of auditing and assessing the ability of their operations to identify, The Committee meets at least four times a year with representatives measure, reduce, control and review all significant physical of the external auditor.
At the request of the Committees risks.
The results of such audits are reported upon and reviewed Chairman, the Chief Executive, Finance Director and head of by site, headquarter and corporate management in order to internal audit attend for part of each meeting.
The first meeting ensure that appropriate action plans are developed and within the annual audit cycle is to consider the nature and scope implemented.
of the audit and to consider any additional special reviews that may be necessary.
Further meetings are held prior to the approval Audit Committee and Auditors of the interim results and the final results to consider the annual The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee for audit and any special reviews undertaken.
The Committee is applying an effective system of internal control and compliance, responsible for reviewing in detail the Annual Report and Interim accurate external financial reporting, fulfilling its obligations Report and all other published financial information for statutory under law and the Code, and managing the relationship with the and regulatory compliance with a view to their recommendation Companys external auditors.
The Committee members comprise and submission to the Board.
The Committee reports its findings 43 Corporate governance report Shareholder relations on the audit process and on the wider aspects of internal control to the Board.
Additionally, the director of physical risk management Dialogue with private and institutional shareholders and head of internal audit meet with the Committee to review and The Board believes that good communication with shareholders discuss the risk management policy and the commercial, physical is a priority.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and and financial control risks faced by the Group.
Finance Director to meet with the Companys investors in the UK, US and Europe and presentations are made on the operating and The Committee has primary responsibility and advises the Board financial performance of the Group, including corporate governance on the appointment, re-appointment and the remuneration of the related matters, and its longer term strategy.
Roadshows are held external auditors.
 LLP PwC has been in the UK, US and Europe immediately after the announcement of the Company's external auditor since 2003 and, during 2005, the final and interim results.
If it is not possible to arrange face to the Audit Committee asked the head of internal audit to carry out face meetings, meetings are held by telephone conference.
The an assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Survey slide presentations made to representatives of the investment forms and face to face meetings with an assessor independent of community following the announcement of the final and interim the audit function were completed by key people within the results are available on-line at the Company's web site, businesses, the service centres and at corporate level.
As a result of the assessment, the Committee has recommended to the Board www.
com, as is a webcast of the results presentation.
that a resolution to re-appoint PwC as the Company's auditor be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 2006.
The Committee The non executive directors are given regular updates as to the will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity views of institutional shareholders.
The Chairman and senior of the external auditor and the rotation of the audit partners from independent director are available to meet with institutional time to time.
shareholders should there be unresolved matters that such shareholders believe should be brought to their attention.
The non The policy on the provision of non-audit services determines the executive directors meet with shareholders at the Annual General procedures for the pre-approval of such services by the Companys Meeting and may attend analyst presentations made by the Chief auditor and the fees paid for those services.
The scope and extent Executive and Finance Director following the final and interim of non-audit work undertaken by the Companys auditor is results announcements.
A report on investor views and comments monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires prior about the Company is prepared by a third party researcher, approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision of normally from the Companys brokers, after investor meetings and the non-audit services does not impair their independence or a summary report is presented to the Board for information.
The Companys auditor is prohibited from providing services to the Company that would be considered to jeopardise The Board fully supports the principle of the Code which seeks their independence such as financial systems design and to encourage a more active interest and contribution from implementation, actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing institutional shareholders.
Annual General Meeting The principal communication with private shareholders is through The Committee also reviews the external auditor's reports on accounting and control matters, the Companys statement on the Annual Review, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the internal control systems and, if requested to do so, the annual Annual General Meeting which is held at a central London location.
financial statements of the relevant Group pension funds.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and any related papers are posted to shareholders with the Annual Review or, if requested, American Depository Receipts ADR programme the Annual Report at least twenty working days before the date The Companys ADR programme trades through Nasdaq.
of the Annual General Meeting to ensure that shareholders have Rexam is subject to minimum disclosure requirements as the sufficient time in which to consider the items of business to be ADR programme has been in existence for numerous years and approved.
is not required to file a 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or to comply with other SEC reporting requirements.
44 Corporate governance report A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate Code of employee and business conduct greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are A worldwide code of conduct, which applies to all the Companys given the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the employees, has been agreed with the Board and is a clear statement Chairman of each Board committee during the Meeting and meet for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted by all the directors informally after the Meeting.
The code of conduct has been communicated are proposed for each item of business and the for, against throughout the Group during 2005 and the Board will be kept and withheld proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution informed regarding the maintenance of the code of conduct.
proposed at the Meeting are counted and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
A summary Whistle-blowing policy of the number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution is Rexam has had a policy for a number of years whereby employees available to shareholders at the conclusion of the Annual General may contact the head of internal audit about any concerns Meeting and it is also published on the Companys web site.
relating to fraud, questionable accounting, internal controls or Following the Annual General Meeting 2006, a summary of the other auditing matters.
Any concerns reported are investigated at questions and answers raised at the Meeting will be posted on the earliest opportunity by the head of internal audit, in conjunction the Companys web site.
An announcement confirming whether with the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, by management each of the resolutions were passed at the Annual General of the respective business.
If requested, the anonymity of the Meeting is made through the London Stock Exchange.
employee is protected at all times.
Financial and other information is made available on the Following a review by the Audit Committee which was completed Companys web site, www.
during 2005, the policy was widened and an external confidential telephone helpline has been made available to all employees for Corporate responsibility the submission of any concerns, rather than only those of a The Group reviewed its environmental and social policies and financial nature.
All concerns will continue to be investigated at performance and published the Environmental and Social Report the earliest opportunity and the employees anonymity will be 2003 which is available in paper copy or through the Companys preserved.
During 2004, this report was updated to acknowledge and address the interest shown in matters of corporate responsibility Going concern as they apply to Rexam.
The Environmental and Social Update The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied 2004 is also on the Companys web site.
A further report will be that Rexam PLC and the Group have adequate resources to published during 2006. continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Rexam has a longstanding set of objectives and is committed to preparing the Accounts on pages 61 to 127. the protection of the environment and the minimisation of the environmental impact of its operations and products.
Additionally Committees of the board and main terms of reference the social impacts of its business on employees, surrounding In addition to regular scheduled Board meetings the Company communities, suppliers, customers, stakeholders and its operates through various Board committees.
The Chief Executives responsibilities towards society in general have the highest Committee, whose members are the Chief Executive and any two priority.
The continuing focus by institutional investors, the other directors, has responsibility to approve certain matters Government, charitable institutions and the media on corporate above established financial limits other than those specifically responsibility encompassing social, environmental and ethical reserved to the Board.
The other committees and their main terms issues is acknowledged by the Board.
of reference are set out below.
More specific details of the Groups initiatives and commitment Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is now to corporate responsibility can be found in the Operating and restricted to the independent non executive directors.
W here Financial review on pages 23 to 26, the Environmental and applicable, the date on which a member was appointed to or Social Report 2003 and the Environmental and Social resigned from a committee is given.
45 Corporate governance report Audit Committee The main terms of reference of this Committee are to review David Tucker Chairman of Committee regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board and Rolf B rjesson resigned 23 February 2005 make recommendations to the Board on the role and nomination Michael Buzzacott of directors for appointment to the Board, Board committees and Christopher Clark retired 8 February 2006 as holders of any executive office.
The Committee is also responsible Carl Symon for assessing the role of the Chairman and making appropriate recommendations to the Board, and assisting the Chairman with The main terms of reference of this Committee are set out in the the annual performance evaluation to assess the overall and section Audit Committee and Auditors on pages 43 and 44. individual performance and effectiveness of the Board.
The The Committee met four times in 2005 and all members of the Committee met seven times in 2005 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of each meeting were present.
Committee were present at each meeting.
Finance Committee Remuneration Committee Michael Buzzacott Chairman of Committee Christopher Clark Chairman of Committee Rolf B rjesson retired 8 February 2006 Chris Bowmer Treasurer Rolf B rjesson resigned 23 February 2005 Graham Chipchase resigned 14 October 2005 Michael Buzzacott Lars Emilson Carl Symon Chairman of Committee David Robbie appointed 14 October 2005 from 8 February 2006 David Tucker David Tucker The main terms of reference of this Committee are to oversee and The main terms of reference of this Committee are set out in the report to the Board on financial risk management strategy, policy Remuneration Report on page 48.
The Committee met ten times in and treasury transactional matters.
Additionally, the Committee 2005 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of assists the Board in reviewing and approving major financial each meeting were present.
transactions, including currency exposures and interest rate management.
The Committee holds at least two scheduled formal Retirement Bene ts Committee meetings each year with full attendance to discuss matters of Michael Hartnall Chairman of Committee policy.
Additional meetings are held during the year as necessary retired 13 December 2005 for which the quorum is three members, one of whom must David Tucker Chairman of Committee be either the Finance Director or the Treasurer.
In 2005, the from 13 December 2005 Committee held two formal meetings and also met several times Rolf B rjesson each month for routine business.
All members of the Committee in Frank Brown Director of US Administration office at the date of each formal meeting were present.
Graham Chipchase resigned 14 October 2005 Peter Moxom Group Director Human Resources Nomination Committee David Robbie appointed 14 October 2005 Rolf B rjesson Chairman of Committee Michael Buzzacott The main terms of reference of this Committee are to review and Christopher Clark retired 8 February 2006 make recommendations to the Board on the Groups retirement Lars Emilson and post retirement benefit arrangements including the control Carl Symon and funding of such arrangements.
It considers and reviews David Tucker external advice received in respect of investment strategy, global asset allocation and funding levels.
It also works with and assists the Remuneration Committee in determining individual pension packages for the executive directors and other senior executives.
46 Corporate governance report Michael Hartnall continued as Committee Chairman following his retirement as a director of Rexam PLC in 2003 and was succeeded by David Tucker in December 2005.
The Committee met four times in 2005 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of each meeting were present, with the exception of the September 2005 meeting when Rolf B rjesson was unable to attend and the December 2005 meeting when Frank Brown was present for part of the meeting only.
Both members received a copy of the agenda for the respective meetings and had an opportunity to comment in advance of the meeting.
Share Options Committee Any director Chris Bowmer Treasurer David Gibson Company Secretary Jennifer Smith Deputy Company Secretary The main terms of reference of this Committee are to grant options to employees over ordinary shares in the Company under the savings related share option schemes and to allot shares under the savings related share option schemes and the executive share option scheme.
A Chairman is elected at each meeting and the quorum is two members, one of whom must be a director.
The Committee met at least fortnightly in 2005.
Non board committee Group Management Committee GMC The Board delegates the management of the Group to the Chief Executive and the executive directors.
The Chief Executive chairs the GMC which consists of the executive directors and senior corporate and business management as shown on page 35.
W hilst the GMC is not a committee of the Board, the Chief Executive reports on its work and activities to the Board.
The GMC met seven times in 2005.
