81795x 1180 28 2 06 1:47 pm Page 83 Audit committee charter Discuss with management and the external auditors managements Scope and authority choice of accounting principles and material judgments, including The Company is required by the UK Listing Authority UKLA, the New whether they are aggressive or conservative and whether they are York Stock Exchange NYSE, and the Australian Stock Exchange ASX to common or minority practices.
Each of the UKLA, the NYSE and the ASX Recommend to the boards that the annual and interim financial also lay down rules and guidelines for the composition of the Committee statements and Form 20-F reviewed by the committee or the chairman and the work to be undertaken by it.
These requirements, where not self representing the committee for this purpose be included in the Groups evident, have been incorporated into this Charter.
The primary function of the Audit committee is to assist the boards of Review the regular reports prepared by the internal auditor including the directors in fulfilling their responsibilities by reviewing: effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
The financial information that will be provided to shareholders and the External auditors public: Review and recommend to the boards the external auditors to be The systems of internal controls that the boards and management have proposed to shareholders, following a commercial tender if deemed established: necessary.
The Groups auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
Review with the external auditors the planned scope of their audit and In carrying out its responsibilities the committee has full authority to subsequently their audit findings including any internal control investigate all matters that fall within the terms of reference of this Charter.
Accordingly, the committee may: Periodically consult with the external auditors out of the presence of Obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties management about the quality of the Groups accounting principles, at the cost of the Group: material judgments and any other matters that the committee deems Have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may appropriate.
reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
Periodically review the performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant Composition professional and regulatory requirements.
The Audit committee shall comprise three or more non executive directors, Review and approve the fees and other compensation to be paid to the all of whom shall be independent.
The chairman of the Audit committee external auditors.
will be an independent director, who is not also the chairman of the Review and approve any non audit work and related fees to be carried boards.
The boards will determine each directors independence having out by the external auditors.
regard to the Independence Policy adopted by the boards, which includes Ensure that the external auditors submit a written statement outlining all consideration of any past and present relationships with the Group which, of its professional relationships with the Group including the provision of in the opinion of the boards, could influence the directors judgment.
services that may affect their objectivity or independence.
Review and All members of the committee shall have a working knowledge of discuss with the external auditors all significant relationships they have basic finance and accounting practices.
At least one member of the with the company to determine their independence.
committee will have accounting or related financial management expertise, Internal auditor as determined by the boards.
Review the qualifications, organisation, strategic focus and resourcing of A quorum will comprise any two committee members.
The committee may invite members of the management team to Review and approve the internal audit plans.
attend the meetings and to provide information as necessary.
Periodically consult privately with the internal auditor about any Meetings significant difficulties encountered including restrictions on scope of The committee shall meet not less than four times a year or more work, access to required information or any other matters that the frequently as circumstances require.
Audit committee minutes will be committee deems appropriate.
confirmed at the following meeting of the committee and tabled as soon Risk management as practicable at a meeting of the boards.
Review and evaluate the internal processes for determining and The Companys senior financial management, external auditors and managing key risk areas.
internal auditor shall be available to attend all meetings.
Ensure the company has an effective risk management system and that As part of its responsibility to foster open communication, the macro risks are reported at least annually to the board.
committee should meet with management, the external auditors and the Require periodic reports from nominated senior managers: internal auditor, at least annually, to discuss any matters that are best dealt confirming the operation of the risk management system including with privately.
advice that accountable management have confirmed the proper operation of agreed risk mitigation strategies and controls: and Responsibilities detailing material risks.
The boards and the external auditors are accountable to shareholders.
Address the effectiveness of the Companys internal control system with The Audit committee is accountable to the boards.
The internal auditor is management and the internal and external auditors.
accountable to the Audit committee and the finance director.
Evaluate the process the Company has in place for assessing and To fulfil its responsibilities the committee shall: continuously improving internal controls, particularly those related to Charter areas of material risk.
Review and, if appropriate, update this Charter at least annually.
Other matters Financial reporting and internal financial controls The committee shall also perform any other activities consistent with this Review with management and the external auditors the Groups charter that the committee or boards deem appropriate.
This will include financial statements, Form 20-F, stock exchange and media releases in but not be limited to: respect of each half year and full year.
Review of the corporate governance practices of Group sponsored Review with management and the external auditors the accounting pension funds: policies and practices adopted by the company and their compliance Review of the Groups insurance cover: with accounting standards, stock exchange listing rules and relevant Review the Groups tax planning and compliance: legislation.
Review the Groups whistleblowing procedures for financial reporting.
Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 83 AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER 200 5
