81795x 1170 25 2 06 10:23 am Page 78 Corporate governance The directors of Rio Tinto believe that high standards of corporate Board performance governance are critical to business integrity and performance.
The In 2005, the board conducted a further formal process to evaluate its following report describes how this philosophy is applied in practice.
effectiveness and that of the board committees and individual directors.
As Rio Tintos three main listings are in London, Melbourne and Each directors performance was appraised by the chairman and, in New York, the directors have referred to the Combined Code, published a meeting chaired by the senior non executive director, the non by the UK Financial Reporting Council the Code, the Australian Stock executive directors assessed the chairmans performance, taking into Exchange ASX Best Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines and consideration the views of executive colleagues.
the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Listing The evaluation process takes place annually and aims to cover Standards, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, when board dynamics, board capability, board process, board structure, formulating this statement.
corporate governance, strategic clarity and alignment and the During 2005, Rio Tinto applied the principles contained in Part 1 of performance of individual directors.
The directors believe that, through the Code.
The detailed provisions of Section 1 of the Code have been this evaluation process, they comply with the requirements of Clause complied with as described below.
Rio Tinto also complied with the ASX A.
6 of the Code, Principle 8 of the ASX Best Practice Corporate Best Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines.
A statement on Governance Guidelines and the relevant sections of the NYSE Code.
compliance with the New York Stock Exhanges Corporate Governance Listing Standards is set out on page 80.
Independence The board has adopted a policy on directors independence.
The policy, The board which contains the materiality thresholds approved by the board, can be The Companies have common boards of directors which are collectively viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
responsible for the success of the Group and accountable to The tests of director independence in the jurisdictions where shareholders for the performance of the business.
Throughout the rest Rio Tinto is listed are not wholly consistent.
The board has, therefore, of this report, they will be described as the board.
adopted the following criteria for independence: Independence of The board currently consists of 12 directors: the chairman, two management, the absence of any business relationship which could executive directors and nine non executive directors.
The Nominations materially interfere with the directors independence of judgement and committee continually assesses the balance of executive and non ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards executive directors and the composition of the board in terms of the deliberations or which could interfere with the directors ability to act in skills and diversity required to ensure it remains relevant in the current the best interest of the Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course environment.
The skills, experience and expertise of each director of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company in which a director together with their terms in office are shown in the biographical details has declared an interest, these are reviewed for materiality to both on pages 60 and 61.
Applying these criteria, the board is satisfied that the majority of the non executive directors, Sir David Clementi, Sir Rod The role and responsibilities of the board Eddington, Richard Goodmanson, Andrew Gould, Lord Kerr, Sir The role of the board is to provide the Group with good governance and Richard Sykes, Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox are independent.
The board also reviews the Groups control and David Mayhew, who is chairman of one of Rio Tinto plcs stockbrokers, accountability framework.
The directors have agreed to a formal is not independent.
schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board, Paul Skinner was, until his appointment as chairman in 2003, an including strategy, major investments and acquisitions.
The full list is independent, non executive director in compliance with the Code.
He available on Rio Tintos website.
satisfies the tests for independence under the ASX Best Practice Responsibility for day to day management of the business lies with Corporate Governance Guidelines and the NYSE Code.
the executive team, with the board agreeing annual performance targets The directors biographies are set out on pages 60 and 61. for management against the Groups financial plan.
The board is ultimately accountable to shareholders for the performance of the Election and re-election business.
Directors are elected by shareholders at the first annual general To ensure an efficient process, the board meets regularly and in meetings after their appointment and, after that, offer themselves for 2005 had eight scheduled and three special meetings.
Details of re-election at least once every three years.
Non executive directors are directors attendance at board and committee meetings are set out in normally expected to serve at least two terms of three years and, except the Directors report on page 64. where special circumstances justify it, would not normally serve more The board has regular scheduled discussions on aspects of the than three such terms.
Groups strategy and, in line with best practice, a dedicated annual two day meeting at which in depth discussions of Group strategy take place.
Chairman and chief executive Directors receive timely, regular and necessary management and The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and the other information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
The board has division of responsibilities has been formally approved by the board.
agreed a procedure for the directors to have access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense and to the advice and Board committees services of both company secretaries.
There are four board committees, the Audit committee, Remuneration In addition to these formal processes, directors are in regular committee, Nominations committee and the Committee on social and communication with senior executives from the product groups, at environmental accountability.
Each committee plays a vital role in both formal and informal meetings, to ensure regular exchange of ensuring that good corporate governance is maintained throughout the knowledge and experience between management and non Group.
Committee terms of reference are reviewed annually by the executive directors.
To continue building on the formal induction board and the committees themselves to ensure they continue to be at programmes, which all new non executive directors undertake, they the forefront of best practice: and are posted on the Groups website.
are encouraged to take every opportunity to visit the Groups Minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to the board, with oral operating locations.
reports at the next board meeting.
All committee members are non The chairman also holds regular meetings with non executive executive directors.
directors without the executive directors present.
The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial information: review with management of procedures 78 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 200 5 81795x 1170 25 2 06 10:23 am Page 79 relating to financial and capital expenditure controls, including internal dealings when in possession of price sensitive information and shortly audit plans and reports: review with external auditors of the scope and before a results announcement, can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
results of their audit: the nomination of auditors for appointment by shareholders: and the review of and recommendation to the board for Communication approval of Rio Tintos risk management policy.
Its responsibilities also Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective communication with include the review of corporate governance practices of Group shareholders and the general investment community.
To ensure sponsored pension funds.
The committee has a number of training shareholders are kept informed in a timely manner, the Group has sessions which may cover new legislation and other relevant adopted an External disclosure guidance, which is posted on the information.
The external auditors, the finance director, the Group website appended to the Corporate governance guidance.
controller and Group internal auditor attend meetings.
A copy of the In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tinto has a comprehensive Audit committee charter is reproduced on page 83 and can be found on website featuring in depth information on health, safety and the the Rio Tinto website.
environment, as well as general investor information and Group policies.
The Audit committee is chaired by Andrew Gould and its members Results presentations and other significant events are available as they are Sir David Clementi, Vivienne Cox and Lord Kerr.
David Mayhew happen and as an archive on the website.
attends in an advisory capacity.
The Group also produces a range of informative publications, which The Remuneration committee is responsible for determining the are available on request.
For further details, see page 90. policy for executive remuneration and for the remuneration and benefits Full advantage is taken of the annual general meetings to inform of individual executive directors and senior executives.
Full disclosure of shareholders of current developments and to give shareholders the all elements of directors and relevant senior executives remuneration opportunity to ask questions.
As recommended by the ASX Best can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 65 to 77, together Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines, Rio Tinto Limiteds external with details of the Groups remuneration policies.
The committee is auditor attends the annual general meeting and is available to answer chaired by Sir Richard Sykes and its members are Sir David Clementi, shareholder questions about the conduct of the audit and the Andrew Gould and Richard Goodmanson.
preparation and content of the auditors report.
Rio Tinto Limited The Nominations committee is chaired by the chairman of shareholders are also able to submit written questions regarding the Rio Tinto, Paul Skinner.
The committee is responsible, on behalf of the statutory audit report to the auditors via the Company.
Any questions board, for ensuring that a suitable process is in place to meet the received and answers provided will be made available to the members recruitment requirements of the board.
It reviews the mix, structure and at the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting in May 2006.
Rio Tinto experience of the board and the desired profiles of potential candidates plcs auditors will as usual attend the annual general meeting in London for membership.
In consultation with external search consultancies it and will be available to respond to audit related shareholder questions.
oversees the review and recruitment process to meet vacancies as they The main channels of communication with the general investment arise.
The recruitment process itself includes identification of suitable community are through the chairman, chief executive and finance candidates, followed by a formal assessment of each candidate, leading director, who conduct regular meetings with the Companies major to a final selection process.
Proposals for new members are submitted shareholders.
The senior independent director and other non executive to the full board for approval.
directors are also available as appropriate.
The committee also reviews the time required to be committed to The Group organises regular investor seminars which provide a two Group business by non executive directors and assesses whether non way communication with investors and analysts: the valuable feedback executive directors are devoting sufficient time to carry out their duties.
is communicated to the board.
An annual survey of major shareholders In addition to Paul Skinner, the committee consists of Ashton Calvert, opinion and perception of the Group is presented to the board by the Sir Rod Eddington, David Mayhew and Sir Richard Sykes.
Under the Groups investor relations advisors.
Code, two members of the committee are not considered independent: Paul Skinner, following his appointment as chairman, and David Statement of business practice Mayhew.
The Code specifically allows the chairman to chair the The way we work provides the directors and all Group employees with Nominations committee, but, nevertheless, the committee a summary of the principal policies and procedures in place to help composition is not fully aligned with recommended practice in the ensure that high governance and business standards are UK.
The board takes the view, however, that the skills and experience of communicated and achieved throughout the Group.
the members of the committee makes the current composition both Main policies are adopted by the directors after wide consultation, efficient and effective.
externally and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are communicated The Committee on social and environmental accountability reviews to business units worldwide, together with guidance and support on the effectiveness of management policies and procedures in place to implementation.
Business units are then required to devote the deliver those standards in The way we work, Rio Tintos statement of necessary effort by management to implement and report on these business practice, which are not covered by the other board policies.
committees and, in particular, those relating to health, safety, the The following policies are currently in place: sustainable environment and social issues.
The overall objective of the committee is development: health, safety and the environment: communities: human to promote the development of high quality business practices rights: access to land: employment: political involvement: and business throughout the Group and to develop the necessary clear accountability integrity: while guidance documents have been issued for corporate on these practices.
Members of the committee, which is chaired by governance: compliance: external disclosures, including continuous Richard Goodmanson, are Ashton Calvert, Sir Rod Eddington and disclosure, antitrust and code of ethics covering the preparation of Lord Kerr.
financial statements and risk analysis.
These policies and guidances apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses.
Executive directors other directorships There is also a Groupwide whistle blowing programme called Executive directors are likely to be invited to become non executive Speak-OUT.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns, directors of other companies.
For full details of the Group policy and including any suspicion of a violation of the Groups financial reporting fees, see page 70. and environmental procedures, through an independent third party and without fear of recrimination.
A process has been established for the Directors dealings in shares investigation of any matters reported with clear lines of reporting and Rio Tinto has a Group policy in place to govern the dealing in Rio Tinto responsibility in each Group business.
securities by directors and employees.
The policy, which prohibits Where the Group does not have operating responsibility for a Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 200 5 81795x 1170 25 2 06 10:24 am Page 80 Corporate governance continued business, Rio Tintos policies are communicated to the business The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal partners and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own.
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness in providing shareholders Rio Tintos report on social and environmental matters follows the with a return on their investments that is consistent with a responsible Association of British Insurers guidelines.
This report can be found on assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, page 56.
Details of the Groups overall and individual businesses social operational and compliance controls, and risk management procedures.
and environmental performance continue to be published on Rio Tintos Because of the limitations inherent in any such system this is designed website and in the Sustainable development review.
to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Accordingly, it provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Responsibilities of the directors The directors have established a process for identifying, evaluating The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of was in place during 2005 and up to and including the date of approval the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the 2005 Annual report and financial statements.
The process is and cash flows for that period.
This includes, in respect of Rio Tinto plc, reviewed annually by the directors and accords with the guidance set preparing financial statements in accordance with UK company law out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
which give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs, and Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive for preparing a Remuneration report which includes the information committee and the Disclosures and procedures committee regularly required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the UK Companies Act 1985 and review information related to the Groups control framework.
This Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures.
information is presented to the Audit committee to enable its members Details of the directors responsibilities in respect of Rio Tinto Limited to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls.
In addition, the board are set out on page 171.
To ensure that these requirements are and their committees monitor the Groups significant risks on an satisfied, the directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining ongoing basis.
adequate internal controls and procedures for financial reporting Assurance functions, including internal auditors and health, safety throughout the Group.
and environmental auditors, perform reviews of control activities and The directors consider that the financial statements present a true provide regular written and oral reports to directors and management and fair view and have been prepared in accordance with applicable committees.
The directors receive and review minutes of the meetings accounting standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies of each board committee, in addition to oral reports from the respective for Rio Tintos business and supported by reasonable and prudent chairmen at the first board meeting following the relevant committee judgements and estimates.
The accounting policies have been meeting.
Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be mitigated to The directors have received a written statement from the chief an acceptable degree using internal controls.
Such major risks are executive and the finance director to this effect.
In accordance with transferred to third parties in the international insurance markets, to the ASX Best Practice Recommendation 7.2, this written statement relies extent considered appropriate.
on a sound system of risk management and internal compliance and Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and administrative controls which implements the policies adopted by the board and offices complete an internal control questionnaire that seeks to confirm confirms that the Groups risk management and internal compliance that adequate internal controls are in place and operating effectively.
The and control systems are operating efficiently and effectively in all results of this process are reviewed by the executive committee and it is material respects.
then presented to the board as a further part of their review of the The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and Groups internal controls.
This process is continually reviewed and other members of staff who are required to exercise judgement in the strengthened as appropriate.
course of the preparation of the financial statements are required to In 2002, the Group also established a Disclosure and procedures conduct themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with committee, which was tasked with reviewing the adequacy and the ethical standards of their profession and or business.
effectiveness of Group controls and procedures over the public The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting disclosure of financial and related information.
The committee has been records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 and the presenting the results of this process to the directors and will continue Australian Corporations Act 2001.
They have a general responsibility for to do so.
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the The Group has material investments in a number of joint ventures assets of Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity control, it cannot guarantee that local management of mining assets will of the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation comply with Rio Tinto standards or objectives.
Accordingly, the review of and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in their internal controls is less comprehensive than that for the Groups other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve managed operations.
consideration of this and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial The New York Stock Exchange statements since they were initially available on the website.
In November 2003, the SEC approved the new corporate governance listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The Going concern Company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern the NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in which its basis.
The directors report that they have satisfied themselves that the corporate governance practices differ from these standards.
Companies and the Group are a going concern since they have The Company has reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the believes that its corporate governance practices are broadly consistent foreseeable future.
with them, with one exception where the Company does not meet the strict requirements set out in these standards.
Boards statement on internal control The standards state that companies must have a nominating Rio Tintos overriding corporate objective is to maximise long term corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent shareholder value through responsible and sustainable investment in directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to mining and related assets.
The directors recognise that creating identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops shareholder value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance principles 80 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 200 5 81795x 1170 25 2 06 10:24 am Page 81 applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations committee, since the adoption of these policies were either within the pre-approval information about which is set out on page 79.
This committee does not policies or approved by the Audit committee.
develop corporate governance principles for the boards approval.
The board itself performs this task and approves the Groups overall system Audit committee of governance and internal controls.
The Audit committee meets the membership requirements of the Code, the ASX Corporate Governance Guidelines and the NYSE Code.
The New Zealand corporate governance statement Group also meets the composition, operation and responsibility Rio Tinto Limited is listed with the ASX and New Zealand Stock requirements in respect of audit committees mandated by the Australian Exchange NZX, which both have their own corporate governance Stock Exchange.
The Audit committee is governed by a written charter rules.
As an overseas listed issuer, Rio Tinto Limited is deemed to approved by the board, which the Audit committee reviews and satisfy the NZX rules while it remains ASX listed.
Additionally the NZX reassesses each year for adequacy.
A copy of this charter is reproduced rules require Rio Tinto Limited to disclose in its annual report any home on page 83. exchange corporate governance rules and principles which materially The Audit committee comprises the four members set out below.
differ from those of the NZX.
Although the ASX corporate governance Vivienne Cox became a member of the committee with effect from April guidelines are substantially the same as the NZX regime, the following 2005.
The members of the committee are independent and are free of differences may be considered material: any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying The Australian equivalent of a number of the NZX rules including out their responsibilities.
David Mayhew attends the meetings in an restrictions on buy backs, financial assistance and rules governing advisory capacity.
auditors are contained in the Corporations Act 2001 rather than in the ASX Listing Rules.
Report of the Audit committee The ASX guidelines extend beyond the NZX rules to specifically The Audit committee met eight times in 2005.
It monitors address risk management, internal controls and stakeholder developments in corporate governance in the UK, Australia and the interests and require the public disclosure of internal policies and US, to ensure the Group continues to apply high and appropriate procedures.
The ASX guidelines recommend that a majority of directors must be Many of the new US requirements have long been best practice independent whereas the NZX rules require one third of directors and and are incorporated into the committees charter, reproduced on page at least two directors to be independent.
The charter is subject to regular discussion and has been reviewed similarly under both rules but there are differences.
in the light of new requirements and emerging best practice.
The ASX Listing Rules do not require shareholder approval of major There is in place a set of procedures, including budgetary transactions and related party transactions to the extent required by guidelines, for the appointment of the external auditor to undertake non the NZX rules.
audit work, which aims to provide the best possible services for the Group at the most advantageous price.
The committee reviews the Despite these regulatory differences, the directors believe that independence of the external auditors on an annual basis and a process Rio Tinto Limiteds corporate governance practices are consistent is also in place to review their effectiveness to ensure that the Group with the intentions underlying the NZX Corporate Governance Best continues to receive an efficient and unbiased service.
advised the directors that the Audit committee is satisfied that the provision of non audit services by the external auditors during 2005 is Principal auditors compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors The remuneration of the Groups principal auditors for audit services and imposed by the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Furthermore, as part other services, as well as remuneration payable to other accounting of its responsibility to foster open communication, the committee meets firms, has been set out in Note 44 on page 146. with management, the external auditors and the internal auditor Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the separately.
independence of the Groups principal auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide a range of accounting and other professional Financial expert services that might compromise their appointment as independent The Audit committee reviewed the SEC requirements for audit auditors.
The engagement of the Groups principal auditors to provide committees financial experts and the Combined Code requirement that statutory audit services, certain other assurance services, tax services at least one committee member should have recent and relevant and some other specific services are pre-approved annually by the Audit financial experience.
Following a detailed review, the committee committee.
The engagement of the Groups principal auditors to provide recommended to the board that Andrew Gould and Sir David Clementi other permitted services are individually subject to the specific approval be identified as the Audit committees financial experts in the 2005 of the Audit committee or its chairman.
Annual report and financial statements.
The board has concluded that Prior to the commencement of each financial year, the Groups Andrew Gould and Sir David Clementi possess the requisite skills, finance director submits to the Audit committee a schedule of the types experience and background to qualify for the purpose of C. 3.1 of the of services that are expected to be performed during the following year Code as well as fulfilling the SEC criteria.
The Audit committee may impose a US dollar limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
Any non 2005 financial statements audit service provided by the Groups principal auditors, where the The Audit committee has reviewed and discussed with management the expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Groups audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December Groups normal tender procedures.
However, in exceptional 2005. circumstances the finance director is authorised to engage the Groups We have discussed with the external auditors the matters principal auditors to provide such services without going to tender, but if described in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountant the fees are expected to exceed US$250,000 then the chairman of the Auditing Standard No.
90, Audit committee communications, and in the Audit committee must approve the engagement.
International Standard on Auditing UK and Ireland 260, Communication The Audit committee adopted policies for the pre-approval of of Audit Matters with those charged with governance ISA 260, permitted services provided by the Groups principal auditors during including their judgements regarding the quality of the Groups January 2003.
These are regularly reviewed by the committee.
accounting principles and underlying estimates.
Engagements for services provided by the Groups principal auditors The committee has discussed with the external auditors their Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 200 5 81795x 1170 25 2 06 10:24 am Page 82 Corporate governance continued independence, and received and reviewed their written disclosures, as required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees and ISA 260.
Based on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the committee has recommended to the board of directors that the financial statements referred to above be included in this Annual report.
Andrew F J Gould Chairman Sir David Clementi Vivienne Cox Lord Kerr Report of the Nominations committee The Nominations committee report of its activities covers a period of considerable change in composition of the board.
Three long serving non executive directors retired during 2005.
They were Sir Richard Giordano, Leon Davis and John Morschel.
The committee therefore focused on the recruitment, with input from an external search advisers, of replacements with appropriate skills and experience.
Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox joined the board on 1 February 2005, and Sir Rod Eddington joined the board on 1 September 2005.
Each is an independent director who brings an experience profile which will ensure that the overall quality of the board is maintained.
The committee also reviewed matters relating to the succession plans for the senior executive team.
As part of his annual performance assessment of individual directors, Paul Skinner, who is chairman of the Nominations committee, has reviewed the time committed by directors to Group business and confirmed this to be appropriate in each case.
Paul Skinner Chairman Ashton Calvert, AC Sir Rod Eddington David Mayhew Sir Richard Sykes 82 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 200 5
