Corporate Governance Rotork 21 Annual Report 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Set out within this section is a commentary required to set appropriate policies and to During the year the Audit Committee: on how the Company applies the main and review its effectiveness.
The role of supporting principles of the Combined Code management is to implement Board policies.
Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness on Corporate Governance the Code.
of internal audit activities: Specific disclosures required within the The system of internal control is designed to Reviewed and monitored external auditor provisions of the Code are also made within reduce but cannot eliminate the risks of independence and objectivity and the this section.
failure to meet business objectives.
Internal effectiveness of the audit process: control therefore can only provide reasonable Considered reports from management, Code Compliance Statement but not absolute assurance in meeting such internal and external audit on the system All current serving executive directors now business objectives or against material of internal financial control and any have one years notice period or less in their misstatement or loss.
material control weaknesses: service contracts.
Following the appointment Received reports on Health and Safety and of IG King during 2005, currently there are A continuous process for identifying, environmental issues: now three independent non-executives as evaluating and managing the significant risks Discussed with management the range of accepted by the Combined Code on the faced by the Company continued to be actions taken on problem areas for the Board and the Board Committees.
As Rotork applied and developed during the year under business identified by Board members or in p. l. c. is considered a large company by the review and operated up to the date of the internal and external audit reports.
Code it is recognised that for full compliance, approval of the annual report and accounts.
3.2 requires a further Senior managers with responsibility across all Additionally: independent non-executive to be appointed functions participate in the risk management so that half the Board excluding the Chairman process that identifies and evaluates the key The Board received copies of the minutes comprise non-executive directors.
This was the risks including consideration of social and of all Audit Committee meetings: position throughout the year under review.
environmental risks facing the Companys The Board reviewed the role of insurances The appointment of IG King is considered by businesses.
Their deliberations are reported to in managing risk across the Group: the Board to be a significant step towards full the Audit Committee and Board.
This process The Board regularly receives written and compliance in respect of the relevant Code is based on senior managers detailed oral reports from management on all provision, concerning Board composition, in knowledge and understanding of key risks aspects of production, operations, financial addition to facilitating full compliance for within and external to the business based on and risk management matters.
Subject to the formal management information and reports matter of the number of independent nonand their interaction and daily dealings with Prior to the year end the full Board following executives referred to in this paragraph the those reporting directly to them, their discussion at the Audit Committee formally Company considers that it has from April colleagues and external parties.
reviews the effectiveness of the Groups 2005 complied with the provisions of the system of internal control.
Early in the year prior to the Internal financial audits are undertaken on appointment of IG King in February 2005, a regular basis by a selected group of The Board the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit accountants drawn from head office across The Board currently has eight members Committees were non-compliant in that RC the divisional businesses and geographic comprising the Chairman, the three Lockwood was one of the three non-executive centres.
All these accountants have received independent non-executive directors as members of each of those committees.
Mr. relevant and specific training in internal audit, accepted by the Code, and four executive Malcolm whose service contract had a two best practice and control procedures, including directors.
On appointment directors receive a year notice period, retired in April 2005. health and safety.
Work will continue to suitable and tailored induction.
There is a further embed internal control and risk clear division of responsibility approved by Internal control management in the operations of the the Board in writing between the Chairman, The Company has during the year operated business and to further enhance and add to RC Lockwood, and the Chief Executive, WH procedures necessary to comply with the the relevant processes including consideration Whiteley, that ensures that there is a balance guidance issued in the Turnbull Report, and of social and environmental risks.
of power and authority between the running by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
of the Board and the executive responsibility The processes that are used by the Board to for the running of the Companys business.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the review the effectiveness of this system of JW Matthews is the Senior Independent nonCompanys system of internal control and is internal control include the following: executive Director.
22 Rotork Corporate Governance Annual Report 2005 continued The full Board had seven meetings spread results, ensuring sound internal control and Appointments to the Board appropriately over the course of the year risk management, executive director The Nomination Committees five members under review.
During the year RC Lockwood, remuneration, corporate governance matters during the year under review were RC A Walker, WH Whiteley, RE Slater, GM Ogden including Board and Committee performance Lockwood who chairs the committee, and IG King attended every Board meeting.
appraisals, Board and Committee membership.
JW Matthews, A Walker, IG King and WH JW Matthews attended six meetings and RH The Board regularly considers and discusses Whiteley.
Arnold, a United States resident and national, future strategy, following submissions by attended four Board meetings in person and management, at Board meetings and, on The Committee meets regularly to undertake three by video-link for part of the meeting.
The its duties in relation to succession planning GE Malcolm who retired in April attended non-executive directors constructively challenge and in recommending specific appointments two meetings.
During the year Board and help develop proposals on strategy at to the Board.
There was one formally meetings are scheduled at manufacturing those meetings.
The decisions which are left minuted meeting of the Committee in the sites other than the Companys headquarters to management are all those related to the year under review.
This allows in particular nonsuccessful operation and management of the executive directors to meet management at Companys business and in implementing the The search for an additional independent nonthese sites and receive presentations from commercial strategy within the limits set by the executive director with recent and relevant them.
During the year under review the full Board annually for overall operational budgets financial experience culminated in the Board visited and held a full Board meeting at and capital expenditure.
appointment to the Board of IG King in 2005 the Rotork Fluid System manufacturing who was introduced through an external plant in Lucca, Italy.
The Chairman ensures that meetings of nonconsultant.
Prior to the appointment of IG executives without the executives present are King the Nomination Committee considered a The Chairman ensures through the Company held.
The Company maintains appropriate range of suitable candidates making use of Secretary that the Board Agenda and all directors and officers insurance cover.
external search consultants and other contacts.
relevant information is provided to the Board A short list of those available candidates sufficiently in advance of meetings.
The Performance evaluation considered most suitable when compared with Chairman and Company Secretary discuss the There is a formal process for performance the criteria drawn up by the Committee, were Agenda ahead of every meeting.
At meetings evaluation of the Board, its Committees and then interviewed by the Committee.
Following the Chairman ensures that all directors are individual directors which was implemented further consideration by the Committee, and able to make an effective contribution during 2005.
The Chairman with support meetings by IG King with all the executive throughout meetings and every director is from the Company Secretary co-ordinates the directors, he was recommended to the Board encouraged to participate and provide evaluation and during the evaluation consults for appointment as a non-executive director by opinions for each Agenda item.
The Chairman individually with all directors addressing a the Committee.
IG King has undertaken to the always seeks to achieve unanimous decisions consistent set of pre notified matters covering Company that he will have sufficient time to of the Board following due discussion of Board, Board Committees and individual meet what is expected of him as set out in his Agenda items.
The Schedule of Reserved directors effectiveness.
The collective results letter of appointment.
Matters details those matters specifically of these structured dialogues are reviewed by reserved for Board decision.
The types of the Chairman, consulting with others as Following the appointment of the third decision which are reserved for Board decision appropriate.
An overall summary of the independent non-executive director, IG King, relate to matters which cannot or the Board evaluation results can then be tabled at an the Nomination Committee now comprises considers should not be delegated to the Chief appropriate Board meeting.
The effectiveness three independent directors, the Chief Executive and executive management.
They of the evaluation process is assessed and can Executive and Chairman.
A majority of the include approval of Group commercial strategy form the basis for subsequent development members of the Nomination Committee are and succession planning, approval of Group action.
The Senior Independent Director leads therefore independent non-executive directors annual operating and capital expenditure the performance evaluation of the Chairman as accepted by the Code.
The Terms of budgets and recommendations for payment through consultation with all the directors Reference of the Nomination Committee can of final proposed dividend and decisions for followed by a meeting he chairs with the other be accessed on the Companys website in the interim dividends and dividend policy, approval non-executive directors to consider all responses Investors section.
of the Annual Report and financial statements received and at which the performance of and announcements of final and interim the Chairman is formally evaluated.
Corporate Governance Rotork 23 continued Annual Report 2005 Audit Committee the Groups finance departments who all have written on behalf of the Board to the The Audit Committee is now comprised of other distinct posts.
The Group Finance Companys major shareholders offering the three independent non-executive Director is also Head of Internal Audit.
The meetings with the non-executive directors and directors, JW Matthews Chairman, A Walker work undertaken by the Committee in requesting shareholders to confirm they are and IG King.
RC Lockwood ceased to be a discharging its internal control responsibilities content with current Board level contact with member of the Committee in February 2005. is described under the Internal Control section the Company and communication to nonThe Committee usually meets three times a above.
During the year the Committee actively executives.
The Chairman now attends the year to review published financial information, reviews the actions and judgements of preliminary and interim announcements in the effectiveness of both external and internal management in relation to the Companys London with the Chief Executive and Finance audit and internal financial and other controls.
financial statements, operating and financial Director and is available to meet fund The Finance Director, Chief Executive, review, interim reports and preliminary managers and analysts on those days.
Chairman and the external auditors normally announcements before their submission to the attend meetings and there is a meeting at Board with the Committees recommendations Individual shareholders have an opportunity to least once a year between the Committee and for approval or otherwise.
The Committee put questions to the Chairman at the AGM the external auditors at which management is considers the appointment of the auditor and and individual shareholder enquiries are dealt not present.
recommends the audit fees to the Board.
The with throughout the year by the Company Committee also pre-approves fees in respect of Secretarys department.
For the AGM all proxy The matter of auditor independence is non-audit services of the auditor excluding tax votes are counted and except in the event of considered by the Committee.
The Auditor advice at financial thresholds set out in a a poll being called at the AGM the balance does provide non-audit services.
Auditor written policy statement approved by the for and against the resolution and the number objectivity and independence is safeguarded Committee and seeks to reassure itself that of abstentions is displayed for shareholders by ensuring all non-audit services are the provision of non-audit services does not after it has been dealt with on a show of managed and directed by the Company impair the external auditors independence or hands.
Prior to the AGM the Company executive management and by ensuring objectivity.
The Committee discuss with the Secretary reports to the Board on the results of disclosure of non-audit fees to the Audit external auditor before the audit commences the proxy returns and on the comments and Committee.
For significant general consulting the nature and scope of the audit and reviews analysis undertaken by voting agencies.
projects more than one service delivery steps taken by the auditor to respond to provider is considered.
audit work provided by the auditor with fees are set out in note 8.
Within the Audit Remuneration Committee Committees Terms of Reference is a The work of the Remuneration Committee is requirement for the Committee to assess the described in the Remuneration Report on independence of the external auditor pages 26 to 32.
JW Matthews, A Walker and ensuring key partners are rotated at IG King attended the four formal meetings of appropriate intervals and to ensure that the the Remuneration Committee during the year provision of non-audit services does not under review.
The Chief Executive was invited impair the external auditors independence or to attend three formal meetings for parts of objectivity.
This assessment was undertaken those meetings.
by the Committee during the year.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee is Relations with shareholders available to view on the Companys website Communication with shareholders is given in the Investors section.
All members of the Board receive copies of all analysts reports of which the All of the members of the Audit Committee, Company is made aware.
The Board receives during the year under review being, JW non-attributable analyst comments from Matthews, A Walker and IG King attended all analyst meetings and shareholder meetings three meetings of the Committee.
RE Slater after both interim and final results.
The Chief and WH Whiteley attended all three meetings Executive reports at each Board meeting upon of the Committee by invitation.
The internal his meetings with analysts, fund managers and audit function is undertaken by members of shareholders.
