Introduction and sources approval of the acquisition of Miller Brewing SABMillers board, its committees and Company from Altria.
This agreement limited executive committee are devoted to the size of the board to a maximum of 13 achieving the highest standards of corporate directors, of whom no more than two could governance, corporate responsibility and be executive directors and, of the remaining risk management in directing and controlling 11 non-executive directors, three were the business of the group.
The board is required to be directors nominated by Altria.
charged with responsibility to the companys The agreement also provided that, unless shareholders for the oversight of governance.
otherwise agreed with Altria, the number of Principles of good governance are directors on the board would be reduced to embedded in the way the board, its 11 within two years of completion of the committees and the executive committee Miller transaction that is, by 9 July 2004. operate their business.
The board is mindful Altria also has the right under the agreement that a majority of its shareholders are in the to appoint one member of the audit USA and South Africa.
committee and of the nomination committee.
The following paragraphs explain how The board considers that its overall SABMiller applies the provisions of the composition in the year under review Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
continued to remain appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of 2.
Combined Code compliance character and integrity of all of its directors The board is pleased to report that and the experience and skills which they throughout the year under review the bring to their duties.
The board also company complied with the provisions and considers that the composition of the audit applied the principles of the Combined Code, committee remains appropriate, given Altrias except as set out below.
interest as the companys largest single There are three respects in which the shareholder, and is satisfied that, having company did not, in the period under review, regard to the terms of the relationship comply with the Combined Code: agreement between the company and Altria, 1. at least half the board, excluding the and to the experience and background in chairman, did not satisfy the requirements financial matters of the director nominated by of the Combined Code regarding Altria as a member of the audit committee, independence.
With effect from the the independence and effectiveness of the AGM in July 2005, changes to the audit committee in discharging its functions companys board of directors will mean in terms of the Combined Code is not that the board will satisfy the compromised as a result.
independence requirements of the During the year, a number of steps Combined Code: were taken to expand the independent 2. the audit committee did not consist constituents of the board and its committees.
solely of independent directors, as First, in order to assist the company to the committee included Mr Levett until comply with the Combined Code, Altria has the AGM in July 2004 and Ms fide Lisi, agreed that for the foreseeable future the size who is an Altria nominee, and so not of the board need not be reduced to 11. independent for the purposes of the Secondly, Altria agreed that it would not, for Combined Code: and the time being, exercise its right to nominate 3. the remuneration committee did not a third director to the board following the consist entirely of independent directors.
retirement of Mr Camilleri from the board, This committee has, however, since which took place with effect from the AGM 1 April 2005 been comprised only of at the end of July 2004.
Thirdly, Mr John independent directors.
Manzoni joined the board as a non-executive The size and certain aspects of the director on 1 August 2004.
Mr Manzoni is an composition of the board and of the audit independent director, whose appointment and nomination committees are determined followed the retirement from the board with primarily by the terms of the relationship effect from the 2004 AGM of Mr Michael agreement with Altria Group, Inc. which was Levett, a non-executive director who was approved by shareholders as part of the not independent.
These changes, and the 38 SABMiller plc corporate governance support of Altria, enhance the balance of the shortly after the retirement at the 2004 served continuously on the board, and the board.
In addition, as neither Lord Renwick AGM of Mr Levett and Mr Camilleri, five board of the companys predecessor, since nor Mr Kahn are considered independent for out of the ten non-executive directors were 1981 although technically he has only been a Combined Code purposes, in August of the independent.
Prior to that date four out of director of the company since 1999.
For the year under review Mr Kahn stood down 11 were independent.
first four months of the year under review from the remuneration committee and Lord Mr Ning has decided that, in the light of until the AGM in July 2004, Mr Camilleri, Renwick handed over the chairmanship of his commitments with China National Cereals, a nominee of Altria, and Mr Levett, the that committee to Mr Morland, an Oils and Foodstuffs Corporation, and COFCO representative of a major shareholder, served independent director.
International Ltd, he will not be offering on the board.
Neither of them was regarded With effect from 1 April 2005, Lord Renwick himself for re-election at the AGM in 2005. as independent for the purpose of the stepped down from the remuneration It is not the boards intention to replace Combined Code.
committee with Mr Manzoni joining the Mr Ning in the foreseeable future.
From the The board considers Mr Morland, committee.
The remuneration committee end of the upcoming AGM, a majority of Lord Fellowes, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni is now comprised entirely of independent non-executive directors will be independent.
and Mr Ramaphosa as being independent.
directors, in compliance with the The board regards the independence of Mr Ramaphosa is chairman of Johnnic Combined Code.
character and integrity of all of its directors Holdings Ltd, which has a 9.5% equity Ms fide Lisi, Altrias nominated member of the to be beyond question and all directors to interest in Tsogo Investment Holdings audit committee, is the only non-independent be independent in judgement.
For the Limited and is the principal shareholder of director serving on that committee.
Mr Levett, determination of independence for Combined Durban Add-ventures Pty Ltd, which in turn who was not independent, was a member of Code purposes for the period under review, owns 40% of Tsogo Sun KwaZulu Natal Pty the committee until the end of July 2004. the board considered the following directors Ltd.
The other 60% of Tsogo Sun KwaZulu not to be independent: Mr Bible and Ms fide Natal Pty Ltd is owned by Tsogo Sun 3.
The board Lisi, as they are nominees of Altria, the Holdings Pty Ltd, in which the group has 3.1 Composition and independence companys largest shareholder: Lord Renwick a 49% shareholding.
However, the board The board consists of two executive directors of Clifton, because of his position with JP regards Mr Ramaphosa as being chief executive and chief financial officer, Morgan, an investment bank which has in the independent as it is the opinion of the board and 10 non-executive directors, of which past three years had a material relationship that this minor relationship does not affect one, Mr Kahn, is chairman.
The number of with the company: and Mr Ning, who was Mr Ramaphosas independence in the non-executive directors was reduced from chairman of China Resources Enterprise, Ltd, context of his work on the board.
eleven to 10 with effect from the AGM in which has a 51% stake in China Resources 2004.
Directors biographies are set out on Snow Breweries Ltd, a joint venture company 3.2 Board meetings and attendance pages 46-47.
The board has determined in which the company indirectly holds the In addition to the AGM, which was attended that, from 1 August 2004 the date on which remaining 49%: and Mr Kahn, who is a former by all the directors with the exception of Mr Manzoni joined the board, following chief executive of the company and has Mr Ning, Mr Morland, and Mr Camilleri, the Directors attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Meyer Kahn 7 7 1 1 1 1 2 2 Graham Mackay 7 7 22 Malcolm Wyman 7 7 22 Geoffrey Bible 6 7 Louis Camilleri 3 Nancy fide Lisi 6 7 4 4 Lord Fellowes 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 2 2 Michael Levett 3 3 1 1 John Manser 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 2 2 John Manzoni 3 4 Miles Morland 6 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 Ning Gaoning 7 Cyril Ramaphosa 7 7 22 Lord Renwick 5 7 3 4 1 1 SABMiller plc 39 Corporate governance board met seven times during the year.
The All committee chairmen report orally on the courses on aspects of the respective year under review saw an increased number proceedings of their committees at the next committee specialities.
Information regarding of committee meetings, with no signs that meeting of the board.
technical development and proposals is this trend will reverse.
Directors attendance distributed to them.
at board and committee meetings is set out 3.5 The roles of executive and in the table on the previous page.
It should non-executive directors 3.7 Outside appointments be noted that prior to his resignation The executive directors have responsibility As part of ongoing development, executive Mr Camilleri had been granted a leave of for proposing strategy and for making and directors are permitted to take up an external absence from formal board meetings in view implementing operational decisions concerning board appointment, subject to the agreement of pressures of business at Altria, where the groups businesses.
Executive directors retain any he is chairman and chief executive officer.
directors complement the skills and experience fees received in respect of such appointments.
As a result of the pressure of his new of the executive directors, contributing to the Generally, such appointments for executive responsibilities, Mr Ning has decided not formulation of strategy, policy and decisiondirectors are limited to one outside company.
making through their knowledge and Mr Mackay took up an invitation to join the All three of the Altria nominees waived experience of other businesses and sectors.
board of Reckitt Benckiser plc as a nontheir fees during the period under review.
All directors bring an independent judgement executive director from 25 February 2005.
The company secretary acts as secretary to to the issues of strategy, performance, and Non-executive directors may serve on a the board and its committees and attends all resources, including key appointments and number of outside boards, provided they meetings, unless he is unable to, in which standards of conduct.
continue to demonstrate the requisite case his deputy stands in for him.
commitment to discharge effectively their 3.6 Information and training duties to SABMiller plc.
The nomination 3.3 Operation of the board The board and its committees are supplied committee keeps the extent of directors other The board sets the strategic objectives of with full and timely information, including interests under review to ensure that the the group, determines investment policies, detailed financial information.
This enables effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
agrees on performance criteria and delegates directors to discharge their responsibilities.
to management the detailed planning and All directors have access to the advice of the 3.8 Chairman and senior implementation of those objectives and company secretary.
Independent professional independent director policies in accordance with appropriate risk advice is also available to directors in The roles of chairman and chief executive parameters.
The board monitors compliance appropriate circumstances, at the companys are separate with responsibilities divided with policies and achievement against expense, and the committees have been between them.
This separation of objectives by holding management provided with sufficient resources to undertake responsibilities has been formalised in their accountable for its activity through monthly their duties.
The company secretary is respective letters of appointment, approved and quarterly performance reporting and responsible for advising the chairman on by the board.
There were no changes to budget updates.
the chairmans external commitments during Following the appointment of new the year.
3.4 Matters reserved for the board directors to the board, an induction The chairman is available to consult with There is a schedule of matters which are programme is arranged which involves shareholders throughout the year, and in the dealt with exclusively by the board.
These industry-specic training including visits to the month prior to the AGM he also invites major include approval of financial statements: the groups businesses and meetings with senior shareholders to meet with him to deal with groups business strategy: the annual capital management, as appropriate.
In addition to any issues.
expenditure plan: major capital projects: exposure to operations, new directors are The senior independent director is major changes to the groups management given exposure to internal controls at Lord Fellowes.
Lord Fellowes serves as an and control structure: material investments business unit level and are advised of the additional contact point for shareholders or disposals: risk management strategy: legal and other duties they have as directors should they feel that their concerns are not social and environmental policy: and of a listed company.
The company arranges being addressed through the normal treasury policies.
for major shareholders to have the channels.
Lord Fellowes is, furthermore, Appropriate structures for those opportunity to meet new appointees.
available to fellow non-executive directors, authorities delegated to management and The company is also committed to either individually or collectively, should they board committees are in place, accompanied continuing director development in order wish to discuss matters of concern in a by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each that they may build on their expertise and forum that does not include executive standing board committee has specic develop an ever more detailed understanding directors or the management of the written terms of reference issued by the of the business and the markets in which company.
In the year under review the board and adopted in committee.
These are group companies operate.
chairman hosted two meetings of nonavailable on the companys website or, Members of committees are encouraged executive directors, without the executive on request, from the company secretary.
to attend internal and external briengs and directors present.
Lord Fellowes, has in 40 SABMiller plc addition, held a meeting of non-executive informed decision in respect of their election relationship with the companys auditors.
directors without the presence of the or re-election.
The re-appointment of nonSpecically, the committees duties include: chairman.
Lord Fellowes is chairman of the executive directors is not automatic.
In To review, and challenge where necessary, corporate accountability and risk assurance general, the board will ask a director reaching the annual financial statements and interim committee CARAC.
He also serves on the age of 70 years to stand for re-election and preliminary announcements before the audit, remuneration, and nomination annually or to retire.
their submission to the board for approval.
committees and as such is well placed to To examine and review the internal inuence the governance of the company 4.
The audit committee control environment within the group and and meet the expectations attaching to the 4.1 Composition review the groups statement on internal role of senior independent director.
During the year under review the audit control systems prior to endorsement committee was chaired by Mr Manser, who by the board.
3.9 Board, committee, and director has been chairman of the committee since To make recommendations to the board performance evaluation May 2002.
Mr Manser qualied as a regarding the appointment, re-appointment A formal evaluation of the boards chartered accountant in 1964 and was and removal of the external auditors and performance and effectiveness was carried made a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered to approve the remuneration and terms out.
This was led by the chairman, with input Accountants in 1976.
He has held the of engagement of the external auditors.
from the senior independent director and in following senior positions: managing director To review annually the effectiveness of consultation with other directors.
Each of Jardine Fleming Hong Kong, managing the internal audit function throughout the non-executive directors performance was director of the Save and Prosper Group, group in the context of the companys evaluated by the chairman, in consultation group chief executive of Robert Fleming overall risk management system, with with the senior independent director, who in Holdings and chairman of Robert Fleming particular focus on the charter, annual turn consulted with the executive directors Holdings Ltd. work plans, activities, stafng, and the company secretary.
These Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland and Ms fide Lisi organisational and reporting structure assessments were conducted against eight served on the committee throughout the year.
and status of the function.
key performance criteria using a variable Mr Levett served on the committee until his To review the effectiveness of the system rating system.
retirement at the AGM in July 2004. for monitoring compliance with laws and The chairmans performance was Mr Morland has been a member of the regulations including the groups bi-annual evaluated against the same criteria by committee from its first meeting on 13 April letters of representation and the results of the senior independent director, the 1999.
Lord Fellowes was appointed to the managements investigation and follow-up executive directors and the company committee on 1 June 2001 and Ms fide Lisi including disciplinary action of any secretary.
was appointed on 4 September 2002. instances of non-compliance.
All outputs from the evaluation process The chairman has recent and relevant In February 2005 the committee reviewed were reviewed by the chairman, the senior financial experience, as does Ms fide Lisi its terms of reference and recommended independent director, the chief executive who holds US accounting qualications certain changes to the board.
These changes and the company secretary, all of whom and has experience in treasury, finance and were considered and approved by the board concluded that the board and its committees M&A transactions.
in April 2005. were operating effectively.
The chairman confirms that 4.2 Meetings and attendance 4.4 Operation of the committee Mr Ramaphosa, standing for re-election The committee met four times during the The audit committee reports its activities at this years AGM, continues to perform year.
The external auditors, the chief and makes recommendations to the board.
effectively and demonstrate commitment to executive and the chief financial officer were During the year, the audit committee his role.
As Mr Manzoni was only recently in attendance at each meeting by invitation.
discharged its responsibilities as they are appointed to the board, his performance was Other members of the management team dened in the committees terms of not subject to formal review for the part of attended as required.
It was involved in ensuring that the year in which he served.
appropriate controls and processes were in 4.3 Terms of reference place to identify all significant business, 3.10 Retirement of directors The following is a summary of the strategic, statutory and financial risks and New directors are subject to election committees terms of reference.
A complete that these risks were being effectively at the first opportunity following their version is available for download from the monitored and managed.
All directors are subject to companys website.
encouraged a project to review and upgrade retirement and re-election by shareholders The committee is responsible for internal controls across the group, which is every three years.
The names of directors establishing formal and transparent in progress, with the target of achieving submitted for election or re-election are arrangements for considering how it should substantive compliance with the Sarbanesaccompanied by brief biographical apply financial reporting and internal control Oxley standards applicable to foreign details to enable shareholders to make an principles and for maintaining an appropriate companies required to register with the SEC SABMiller plc 41 Corporate governance in the USA although SABMiller is and experience of the board.
Appropriate take account of industry, market and country not currently required to register.
succession plans for the executive directors benchmarks.
In order to promote goal The committee has been engaged in and senior management were also kept congruence, share incentives are considered ensuring that appropriate standards of under review.
The appointment of Mr Manzoni to be critical elements of executive incentive governance, reporting and compliance are to the board has increased the number of pay.
To assist the committee in fullling its being met.
It has also advised the board independent non-executive directors.
responsibilities to the board, the company on issues relating to the application of engages the services of consultants, Mercer accounting standards as they relate to 5.4 Summary of appointment procedures Human Resource Consulting Mercer, who published financial information, in particular Where non-executive vacancies arise, the also advise the company on pensions the transition to IFRS.
committee uses the services of external matters and accounting for share-based The chief internal auditor has direct consultants in order to identify suitable incentive reward.
Mercer has no other access to the audit committee chairman.
candidates for the board to consider.
At levels below The audit committee has access to Candidates are short-listed for consideration the companys executive committee, the subsidiary internal audit practitioners.
The by the nomination committee on the basis of companys management consults, amongst reports of the divisional audit committees their relevant corporate or professional skills others, Hay Consulting, Ernst & Young and are also available to the audit committee.
Executive directors are Towers Perrin, on a project basis.
More detail More detail can be found in the sections on considered for appointment to the board on of the companys remuneration policy can be risk management and internal control.
the basis of their experience, skill and ability found in the remuneration report.
During the year, the committee met with to contribute to the group.
These policies and the external auditors and chief internal auditor procedures were followed in the appointment 7.
The corporate accountability and risk without management being present.
of Mr Manzoni as a non-executive director.
assurance committee CARAC The committee critically reviewed its own The terms and conditions of appointment of 7.1 Composition performance during the year by means of a non-executive directors are available from the Lord Fellowes chaired the committee questionnaire which each member of the company secretary on request.
Mr Kahn, Mr Mackay, committee completed independently.
The Mr Manser, Mr Ramaphosa and Mr Wyman committee chairman then reviewed the 6.
The remuneration committee served as members.
Additionally, the director responses and conducted one-to-one 6.1 Composition of corporate affairs, Ms Clark, met regularly discussions with members of the committee On 1 August 2004, Mr Kahn stepped down with the chairman of CARAC to discuss where he felt it was necessary.
The results of from the committee and Mr Morland was implementation and planning issues.
the self-assessment and any action plans appointed chairman, succeeding Lord Mr Manzoni joined the committee on arising were then reported to the board after Renwick.
On 1 April 2005, Lord Renwick 1 April 2005. discussion with the chairman of the board.
stepped down from the committee and was replaced by Mr Manzoni.
Other members 7.2 Terms of reference 5.
The nomination committee of the committee are Lord Fellowes and In summary, the objective of CARAC is 5.1 Composition Mr Manser.
The committee now consists to assist the board in its discharge of its During the year the nomination committee entirely of independent directors.
responsibilities in relation to corporate was chaired by Lord Renwick.
The other accountability, including corporate social members of the committee were Mr Kahn, 6.2 Terms of reference responsibility, corporate social investment Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, and Mr Manser.
The committee is empowered by the board and ethical commercial behaviour.
More detail During the year under review Altria did not to set short, medium and long-term of the committees activities can be found exercise its right to request that one of its remuneration for the executive directors.
in the companys separate corporate nominated directors be appointed as a More generally, the committee is responsible accountability report.
member of the nomination committee.
for the assessment and approval of a broad remuneration strategy for the group and for 7.3 Operation of the committee 5.2 Terms of reference the operation of the companys share-based During the year CARAC focused on The committee is empowered to consider the incentive plans.
This includes determination company-specic industry issues which composition of the board and its committees.
of short and long-term incentives for impact on communities.
It continued to It is asked to consider the retirement, executives across the group.
monitor progress on corporate accountability appointment, and replacement of directors, through regular reports from across the and is required to make appropriate 6.3 Operation of the committee group, with areas of particular risk being recommendations to the board.
During the year the remuneration committee the focus of separate presentations.
The has implemented its strategy of ensuring that committee reviewed evolving stakeholder 5.3 Operation of the committee employees and executives are rewarded for expectations of business and particularly The nomination committee continued to their contribution to the groups operating perceptions of the companys activities, evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and financial performance at levels which strengthening the CSR strategy accordingly.
Relationship with auditors issues and managements response to the the chairman to address any queries  PwC were summary, and conducts an overall review of shareholders may have regarding the appointed as auditors of the company on the effectiveness of the external audit governance of the company or non- 8 February 1999, subsequently becoming process and the external auditors.
This operational aspects of company strategy.
 LLP in 2003. review is facilitated by the use of templates It is also, more broadly, designed to give the The company has in place a formal policy that rate effectiveness across 14 criteria.
board a greater awareness of shareholder on non-audit fees with which the external concerns.
Alongside the chairman the senior auditors are required to comply.
Relations with shareholders independent director is also available to of this policy is to ensure that the independence During the year the company has continued discuss issues with shareholders and views of the auditors is not impaired by the nature to promote dialogue with its major institutional expressed will be communicated by the of non-audit work.
It encouraged all shareholders chairman to the board.
As part of this confirms in a formal report to the audit to attend the AGM and paid considerable initiative, the chairman offers to meet with committee that processes to ensure care and attention to ensuring that the 2004 significant shareholders in the month before compliance with this policy are in place, and AGM was once again an informative, the AGM specically to deal with issues that these processes are monitored regularly.
The arising from the annual report and notice of This report includes a statement that, in their company considers the AGM key in providing AGM.
All non-executive directors of the opinion, PwC believes that the nature of their shareholders with the opportunity to ask company have been invited to participate in non-audit services has not impaired the audit questions of the board and chairmen of all this process.
Comment on the annual report of the company.
Furthermore, PwC provides the board committees.
All resolutions were is conveyed through the audit and a full list of all major non-audit projects put to a poll in 2004 and the voting was remuneration committees to the board.
undertaken for the group during the year.
The results were Please refer to note 4 to the financial published on the Regulatory News Service, the 10.
Risk management statements which has a breakdown of company website, and communicated directly 10.1 System enhancements non-audit services provided to the group by to the 20 largest shareholders after the meeting.
The groups risk management system is the auditors for the year under review.
Alongside the facilities offered by the subject to regular review to ensure full The company has also implemented an company secretary's department, the compliance with the requirements of the internal policy on auditor independence and company maintains a dedicated investor Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance non-audit services.
This policy, developed relations function.
Reporting to the director of on internal control and is designed to deliver against the background of the revised corporate affairs, the investor relations team improved value to the operating businesses.
Combined Code and the stated intention of builds and maintains long-term relationships In 2004 a programme was initiated to achieving substantive compliance with the with institutional investors and analysts on the enhance the groups risk management requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act basis of fundamental business value driver framework of prudent and effective controls, and related legislation in the medium term, analysis.
In partnership with our corporate which enable risk to be assessed and determines that, amongst other things, and divisional management teams and within managed appropriately to the evolving appropriate consideration is given to the use the scope of regulatory constraints, investor structure and needs of the group.
of tendering and to the costs of the relations gives presentations on regional These enhancements now include the assignment.
business outlooks and strives to propagate following.
The audit committee is satisfied that, for understanding thereof across the global a.
The appointment of a group risk manager the period under review, the independence equity markets in subsequent one-on-one to further develop and guide the risk of the auditors has not been affected by the meetings with investors.
Occasional business management approach within the group.
site visits are also arranged.
The formal adjustment of the groups The committee has also implemented a socially responsible investment SRI is existing risk management system to formal system for the review of the external handled by the head of corporate improve: auditors effectiveness.
This process involves accountability, in the corporate affairs alignment with strategic and operational the external auditors presenting their department, who undertakes focused business objectives: proposed audit strategy followed by the briengs with interested investors and risk accountability and oversight: output of their initial discussions with stakeholders.
a more robust framework to effectively management.
At the audit committee In addition to scheduled management-led identify, assess and manage risk: meeting in May, the external auditors present programmes in which operating executives greater co-ordination of risk activities and the output of their detailed year-end work.
interact with investors and analysts, the sharing of risk information globally: In making its assessment of external auditor chairman has, independently, initiated formal greater visibility of the progress of key effectiveness, the committee reviews the contact with all shareholders or their risk controls for the risk management audit representation letters before signature representatives holding in excess of 1% of committee: and by management, reviews the external the issued share capital of the company.
auditors summary of group and subsidiary The purpose of this contact is to enable SABMiller plc 43 Corporate governance group internal audit assurance as to group statements on strategic direction, Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring group-wide compliance with the risk ethics and values: procedures are reviewed regularly by the management policy.
clear business objectives and business audit committee on behalf of the board c. The appointment of regional risk principles: minimisation of operating risk by ensuring management co-ordinators.
an established risk policy: that the appropriate infrastructure, d. The implementation of a common a continuing process for identication controls, systems and people are in place terminology and standards for managing and evaluation of significant risks to the throughout the businesses.
achievement of business objectives: employed in managing operating risk management processes in place to involve segregation of duties, transaction 10.2 Risk and the board of directors mitigate the significant risks to an authorisation, monitoring, financial and The directors are ultimately responsible for acceptable level: managerial reporting the groups risk management systems and continued monitoring of significant risks business resumption planning, including for reviewing their effectiveness.
The risk and internal external environmental factors preventative and contingency measures, management system is designed to manage, that may change the groups risk prole: back-up capabilities and the purchase of rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to and catastrophe insurance to ensure ongoing achieve business objectives, and there is an an internal audit process review of the risk product and service delivery under ongoing process in place for identifying, management system.
assessing, managing, monitoring and In addition to excoms twice yearly reports Assurance on compliance with systems reporting on the significant risks faced by to the board on key risks, there is a process of internal control and on their effectiveness individual group companies and by the group of regular reporting to the board through the is obtained through regular management as a whole.
This process, which has been audit committee on the status of the risk reviews, control self-assessment, internal regularly reviewed during the period, has management process and internal control audit reviews and testing of certain aspects been in place for the year under review up to systems, and any evolving risk issues or of the internal financial control systems by the and including the date of approval of the internal control breakdowns that may have external auditors during the course of their annual report and accounts.
The groups various In accordance with Turnbull guidance, Key reports include those that identify, divisional audit committees consider the reviews on the effectiveness of the risk rank, monitor and measure strategic, results of these reviews regularly, to confirm management system were carried out by the operational and financial risks in each the appropriateness and satisfactory nature executive committee excom, acting as the division and on a group basis.
These are of these systems, while ensuring that risk management committee in May and supplemented by reports on internal control breakdowns involving material loss, if any, November 2004 and in May 2005. processes and breakdowns, along with together with remedial actions, have been reviews of the structure and effectiveness reported to the appropriate boards 10.3 Risk and the executive committee of internal audit functions.
The excom, which is chaired by the chief At the half year and at the year end the executive, and comprises senior SABMiller 11.
Internal control divisional managing directors and finance plc executives, has specic responsibility for The groups systems of internal control are directors of all the groups operations are the system of risk management.
Excom designed and operated to support the required to submit formal letters of reviews the risk reports of the group and the identication and management of risks representation on controls, compliance and business units twice yearly, reporting to the affecting the group and the business notication of continuing or potential board on key risks and their associated environment in which it operates.
As such, operational, financial and legal risks or claims.
they are subject to continuous review as These letters form the subject of reports to circumstances change and new risks emerge.
These letters, including 10.4 Enterprise-wide risk management Key features of the systems of internal the review described above, cover all The focus of risk management in the group is control are: subsidiary companies but do not cover to support the delivery of business objectives written policies and procedures within associates, except for Tsogo Sun, which by identifying, assessing, managing and each business, which are detailed in policy does submit letters of representation, or monitoring risk across the group.
manuals, clearly dened lines of joint ventures.
Directors, executives, key Management is involved in a continuous accountability and delegation of authority, managers and professionals also make process of developing and enhancing its and comprehensive reporting and analysis annual written declarations of interests and comprehensive risk and control procedures against approved standards and budgets are obliged to report without delay any to improve the mechanisms for identifying group treasury operations control and potential or actual conicts of interest which and monitoring risks.
reduce exposure to interest rate, may arise.
Key features of the groups system of risk counterparty, liquidity and currency The directors are responsible for the management are: transaction risks and co-ordinate the groups systems of internal control and for activities of group companies in this area.
reviewing their effectiveness and the board 44 SABMiller plc has conducted a review of the effectiveness function, status of the strategy and of the companys internal controls covering methodology of implementation, plus a all material controls, including financial, snapshot of views regarding independence operational and compliance controls and and objectivity.
The systems of The audit committee has satisfied itself internal control are designed to manage, that adequate, objective internal audit rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to assurance standards and procedures exist achieve business objectives and can provide within the group, and that formal initiatives reasonable, but not absolute, assurance are under way to provide for continuous against material misstatement or loss.
In improvements to the quality and objectivity reviewing these, the board has taken into of the global internal audit function.
account the results of all the work carried out by internal and external auditors to audit and 13.
Whistleblowing measures review the activities of the group.
A number of significant group companies have had whistleblowing measures in place 12.
Internal audit for some time Miller Brewing Company, Beer Internal audit functions operated in all of the South Africa.
During the year measures were groups principal business units in the period implemented to ensure that all employees in under review, reporting to local senior finance the subsidiaries within the group now have management with direct access to local audit the opportunity to make condential committees.
Under the newly implemented disclosures about suspected impropriety global internal audit structure the local and and wrongdoing.
The implementation and regional audit function has direct interface continued functionality of the system has with the group internal audit function through been veried.
The audit committee is notied the chief internal auditor.
The internal audit of all disclosures made and progress in activities are performed either by teams of resolution.
The company secretary, in appropriate, qualied and experienced consultation with the chief internal auditor, employees, or through the engagement decides on the appropriate method and level of external practitioners upon specified of investigation.
The results of investigation, and agreed terms with equivalent access.
and actions taken, are reported to the audit These structures are reviewed annually for committee which has the power to request effectiveness, utilising periodic reviews by further information, conduct its own inquiries, external consultants.
or order additional action as it sees t. The Global Internal Audit Strategy was formally approved by the audit committee in May 2004, and implementation of a centrally co-ordinated internal audit function has been underway since June 2004.
A new Global Internal Audit Methodology has been developed and rolled out across the internal audit function at the regional and country levels.
A primary output from the methodology are reports on global internal audit activities for presentation to the audit committee on a periodic basis.
A formal review of the effectiveness of internal audit was conducted by the chief internal auditor and co-ordinated by the company secretary.
This was conducted by using a standard questionnaire that was completed by head ofce and hub internal audit staff.
On the basis of information received, the chief internal auditor prepared for the audit committee a summary of his assessment of the global internal audit SABMiller plc 45
