Corporate Governance Statement The Company and the Group are committed to high responsibilities as directors.
The appointment and removal of standards of corporate governance and the Board is the Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
accountable to the Companys shareholders for good The Board meets formally six times a year, reviewing trading corporate governance.
This statement describes how the performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and relevant principles of corporate governance are applied by monitoring strategy, examining major acquisition the Company.
Throughout the year the Company has been opportunities and reviewing regular reports to shareholders.
in compliance with the provisions set out in the Revised In the year under review all directors in office at the time Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the attended all of these Board meetings other than two Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
The meetings which were not attended by Mr K C Howe who period under review is the first to which the Combined Code retired from the Board in March 2005 and one meeting has applied.
which was not attended by Ms T Ingram.
The non-executive The workings of the Board and its Committees directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully The Board considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, all directors receive appropriate and timely information.
the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five Briefing papers are distributed by the Secretary to all other independent non-executive directors.
Following the directors in advance of Board meetings.
The members of Annual General Meeting, if all Resolutions are passed, the the Board have evaluated the performance of the Board, Board will comprise the non-executive Chairman, the its committees and individual members at meetings and Chief Executive, four other executive directors and four also through the completion of detailed questionnaires.
non-executive directors, all of whom will be independent.
These are reviewed and considered by the Chairman and Mr L C N Bury, an independent non-executive director, will by the Board as a whole.
In the year under review, the retire at that meeting.
The roles of the Chairman and the questionnaires indicated no areas of concern.
A discussion Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are and evaluation of Board performance also takes place at the clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role strategy conference attended each year by the Board.
adopted by the Board and available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered office and at the The current Board complies with the main principle in Companys website at www.
3 of the Combined Code in that it includes a biographies appear on pages 8 and 9.
These demonstrate balance of executive and non-executive directors so that no that the directors have a range of experience and are of individual or small group of individuals can dominate the sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues Boards decision taking.
The Board recognises that under of strategy, performance, resources and standards of provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code it is recommended conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
All that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Although Mr Bury has served on the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper Board for more than nine years the Board continues to management of the Group.
Where it is considered regard him as independent.
He continues to demonstrate his appropriate, training is made available to directors and training independence of thought at all Board and Committee needs are assessed as part of the evaluation procedure of meetings as particularly demonstrated in the work he has the Board referred to below.
A statement of the directors undertaken as Senior Independent Director and as Chairman responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on of the Remuneration Committee.
On Mr Burys retirement page 22.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of from the Board at the Annual General Meeting Mr T C W matters specifically reserved to it for decision which is Ingram will chair the Remuneration Committee.
available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered office and which is also available on the Companys New members of the Board undergo a full, formal and tailored website at www.
All directors have access to the induction to the Board.
Ms T Ingram, who was appointed to advice and services of the Secretary, who is responsible to the the Board on 21 December 2004, has undertaken such an Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and induction process since her appointment.
that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Secretary ensures that the directors take independent professional advice as required at the expense of the Company when it is judged necessary to discharge their 1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar The Chairman Remuneration Committee The terms of reference for the Chairman of the Board The Groups Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr L C ensure that this role is quite distinct from that of the Chief N Bury and its other members are the other independent Executive and are set out on the Companys website at non-executive directors, Mr T C W Ingram, Mr D H Clayton, www.
In the year under review Mr M E W Mr A J Hobson and Ms T Ingram.
Under its terms of Jackson, the Chairman of the Board, became Chairman of reference, the Committee meets at least twice a year.
In the the Board of Party Gaming plc, a company within the FTSE year under review, three meetings of the Committee were 100, as is the Company.
This appointment was taken by Mr held and all members in office at the time attended all the Jackson after consultation with the Nomination Committee meetings other than Mr A J Hobson who was unable to who are of the view that this second appointment by Party attend one meeting.
Each of the Chairman and the Chief Gaming plc will not affect the ability of Mr Jackson to Executive may, by invitation of the Committee, attend contribute the appropriate time and attention to his role in meetings except when his own performance and the Company.
remuneration are under review but neither is a member of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making The Chairman of the Board has held meetings with the recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of non-executive directors without the executive directors.
reference, on the Companys framework of executive In addition, the non-executive directors have met without the remuneration and its cost.
The Committee determines the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of and on other occasions as deemed appropriate.
The the executive directors including share options, performance Chairman also ensures that shareholder communication and share awards, performance related bonus schemes, pension responses are discussed at each meeting of the Board and rights and compensation payments.
Remuneration that all shareholders have access to the non-executive consultants advise the Committee.
The Board itself directors, through request to the Chairman or the Secretary.
determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The Senior Independent Director The Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Board has appointed Mr L C N Bury to the role of Senior Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration Independent Director.
This role provides a point of contact for are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 31, those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, together with further details of the Remuneration Committee.
other than through the Chairman.
He is available to consult with shareholders and also chairs meetings of the nonAudit Committee executive directors without the Chairman present.
Following The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr A J Hobson, who has Mr L C N Burys retirement from the Board at the Annual chaired the Committee since the Annual General Meeting in General Meeting the Board will appoint a director to this role 2005 and who joined the Committee in June 2004.
Its and make the appropriate announcement at that time.
other members are independent non-executive directors, Mr L C N Bury, who joined in December 1996, Mr T C W Committees of the Board Ingram who joined in March 2002 and Mr D H Clayton Committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects of who joined in June 2004.
It meets at least four times a the Groups affairs.
These Committees are the Remuneration year.
Mr Hobson is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Accountants in England and Wales and has recent and Committee.
Details of all these Committees are set out relevant financial experience as demonstrated in his below.
Whilst the Board notes that a number of independent biography on page 9.
All members in office at the time non-executive directors are members of more than one attended all the meetings in the year under review.
The Board Committee, it is considered that membership is Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups appropriate in the light of the Boards policy that all internal and external auditors.
The Group Finance Director independent non-executive directors are given the and other executives may, by invitation of the Committee, opportunity to take part in the discussions of those attend meetings but the Group Finance Director is not a Committees.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration, member of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is Nomination and Audit Committees are reviewed annually responsible for reviewing half-year and annual accounts and are available on request from the Secretary at the before their submission to the Board and reviews the registered office of the Company or on the Companys effectiveness of internal controls.
It advises the Board on the website at www.
appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work and discusses the nature, 18 19 Corporate Governance Statement continued scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The and the audit fee should not exceed 1:1.
The Committee Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness believes that the Company receives particular benefit from tax and the independence and objectivity of the external advice provided by its auditors given their wide and detailed auditors.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the knowledge of the Group.
appointment, remuneration and utilisation of the Groups Nomination Committee internal audit service, which is currently outsourced to The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the KPMG.
The Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Board, Mr M E W Jackson and consists of the Chairman and The Committee is confident that the objectivity and the five independent non-executive directors, Mr L C N Bury, independence of the auditors is not impaired in any way by Mr T C W Ingram, Mr D H Clayton, Mr A J Hobson and reason of their non-audit work.
The Committee has adopted Ms T Ingram.
In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, controls to ensure that the independence of the external the Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
audit process is not compromised and that, in the provision The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis as of non-audit services, the objectivity and independence of required but not less than once a year.
Three meetings of the the external auditors is safeguarded.
These controls include Committee took place in the year under review at which all the continued monitoring of the independence and the members of the Committee in office at the time were effectiveness of the audit process.
The scope, fee, present other than one meeting which Mr A J Hobson and performance and independence of the external auditor is Mr T C W Ingram were unable to attend.
considered annually by the Audit Committee, together with The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of an evaluation of whether the external audit should be matters relating to the composition of the Board and its tendered.
In addition, audit partners are rotated every five committees including proposing candidates for appointment years and a formal statement of independence from the to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure and external auditors is received each year.
In relation to the considering issues of succession.
Recruitment consultants provision of non-audit services, executive management has are used to assist in the process.
The Nomination the discretion subject to certain financial limitations to Committee is also responsible for an annual review of the obtain taxation services from the auditors without prior membership of the Board.
The Secretary acts as secretary reference to the Audit Committee subject to regularly to the Committee.
apprising the Audit Committee of the amount and nature of fees for such services.
Other non-audit services may be Relations with shareholders undertaken by the external auditors, subject to all projects Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The expected to cost in excess of an amount set by the Audit Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review on Committee being approved in advance either by the pages 2 to 5 include a detailed review of the business and Chairman of the Audit Committee or by the full Audit future developments in relation to it.
A full Annual Report and Committee depending on the expected cost of the project.
Accounts is sent to shareholders.
The Company also has a The Chairman of the Audit Committee may require that such website www.
com which contains up to date project is put out to tender to a number of firms.
It is the information on Group activities and published financial policy of the Committee to require acquisition due diligence results.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional be undertaken by firms other than the auditors unless shareholders and there are presentations to analysts after conflicts of interest for comparable firms make this the Companys announcement of the year-end and half-year impractical.
Further details of fees paid to the auditors are results.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives an set out on page 40. update on presentations to investors and any communication from shareholders to ensure that directors, In the year to 30 September 2005 the audit fee was both executive and non-executive, have an understanding of 903,000.
The Companys auditors,  their views.
LLP, also perform non-audit services for the Group principally tax advice over and above the external audit.
The fees in The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate relation to these services were 1,423,000 which was with private and institutional investors and welcomes their attributable to taxation services and compliance work.
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual Audit Committee keeps the ratio of audit to non-audit fees General Meeting on 2 March 2006 can be found in the under review and has determined that the ratio of non-audit Notice of Meeting on pages 62 and 63. fees other than those relating to taxation paid to the auditors 1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar Internal control and risk management A whistleblowing telephone hotline service has been The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness introduced in many operating companies in the Group of the Groups system of internal controls and risk including all those in the UK and US allowing employees to management.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or malpractice evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the on an entirely confidential basis.
This process has been in place for the year under being considered for Group companies in other jurisdictions review and up to the date of approval of this report.
It is subject to compliance with local legal requirements.
regularly reviewed by the Board and complies fully with the Quality and integrity of personnel Turnbull guidance.
The internal control systems are designed The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which through high recruitment standards and subsequent training it is exposed and by their nature can only provide reasonable courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
Management structure The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each effectiveness of the system of internal control include executive director has been given responsibility for specific discussions with management on significant risk areas aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined identified and the review of plans for, and results from, organisational structure exists within which individual internal and external audits.
responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of the Chief Executive and the executive directors.
The conduct risk assessment process to the Board.
The Board then of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local draws its collective conclusion as to the effectiveness of the executive management teams.
These teams are system of internal control.
The key procedures, which the accountable for the conduct and performance of their directors have established with a view to providing effective businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have internal control, are as follows: full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and Indication of business risks sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the policies and guidelines.
success of the Group are an integral part of the internal Internal audit control environment.
Such processes, which are reviewed The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG and improved as necessary, include strategic planning, the to review compliance with procedures and assess the appointment of senior managers, the regular monitoring of integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts as a performance and control over capital expenditure and service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous acquisitions.
The Company has formed a Risk Committee improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are consisting of the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, agreed in response to its recommendations and these are members of the Group finance team, the Secretary and followed up by the Audit and Risk Committees to ensure representatives of the Group operating companies.
A that satisfactory control is maintained.
representative of KPMG, the internal auditors, may attend meetings of the Committee by request.
The Committee Budgetary process reviews all business activities to identify the nature and A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual extent of the significant risks facing the Group, undertakes budgets for all operating subsidiaries being approved by risk review audits and considers the scope and results of respective subsidiary boards.
Subsequently the combined audits undertaken by KPMG.
It identifies significant internal budget is subject to consideration and approval by the control failings and weaknesses, if any, and agrees remedial Board.
Management information systems provide the action on such matters.
The Risk Committee reports to the directors with relevant and timely information required to Audit Committee.
Through the work of the Audit and Risk monitor financial performance.
Committees, the Board is provided with a balanced Investment appraisal including acquisitions assessment of the significant risks associated with the Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate Groups operations and the effectiveness of the system of capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the internal controls.
Board considers proposals for research and development 20 21 Corporate Governance Statement continued programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject to internal Statement of directors responsibilities guidelines governing investment appraisal criteria, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial financial targets, negotiation, execution and poststatements for each financial year that give a true and fair acquisition management.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In Statement by the directors on compliance with the preparing those financial statements the directors are provisions of the Combined Code required to: The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them throughout the year.
Operating and Financial Review Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and There has been a recent announcement that suggests that prudent.
the Group will no longer be required to prepare a statutory State whether applicable accounting standards have been operating and financial review in respect of accounting followed subject to any material departures disclosed and periods commencing on or after 1 April 2005, although it is explained in the financial statements.
not yet clear how or when this change will be implemented.
However, the Group expects that the requirements in relation The directors confirm that they have complied with the to the contents of directors reports will in the future include above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
reference to financial and, where appropriate, other key The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting performance indicators to the extent necessary to enable records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time shareholders to understand the development, performance the financial position of the Company and the Group and to or position of the Group.
When the requirements become enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply more clear, they will be considered by the Audit Committee with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for and the necessary steps taken to enable the Company to safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and comply with them.
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
They confirm that Going concern all relevant information has been provided to the auditors.
The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning By Order of the Board and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable M J Robinson expectation that the Company and the Group have Secretary adequate resources to continue in operational existence 11 January 2006 for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar
