Corporate Governance 1 Corporate Governance Statement 11 Identification and Evaluation of Risks and Control Objectives 2 Board Composition 12 Energy Management 3 Board Proceedings 13 Capital Investment 4 Directors Induction and Professional Development 14 Monitoring and Corrective Action 5 Board Performance Evaluation 15 Auditor Independence 6 Relations with Shareholders 16 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 7 Report from Nomination Committee 17 Social, Environmental and 8 Report from Audit Committee Ethical Matters 9 Internal Control 18 Political Donations and Expenditure 10 Control Environment 19 NYSE Corporate Governance Rules Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce this section of the Annual Report of 2002 in the US.
The changes we have made have not, which sets out our companys approach to corporate however, been driven simply by a desire to achieve governance.
Corporate governance is a term which is compliance: rather, we have made changes because we frequently used but often misunderstood, so to be clear about recognise them to be pragmatic and worthwhile what we mean by it: we see corporate governance as being improvements.
In particular, we have placed an emphasis about the relationship between the company, its directors and on the professionalism of the Board, employing external its shareholders.
Corporate governance determines how performance evaluation and a structured programme of authority and accountability are distributed throughout the directors induction and training.
company and sets the framework within which we meet our objectives.
All of the members of the Board recognise that as I hope you find the statement which follows both directors we are in a position of trust: as such, we believe we interesting and informative.
We are committed to have a responsibility to our shareholders to put in place maintaining an open and constructive dialogue on robust structures and processes and to observe the highest corporate governance issues, and I would welcome any standards of corporate governance.
suggestions or comments you may have.
We have made a number of changes to our corporate governance arrangements over the past couple of years.
These have reflected developments in best practice, most notably contained in the Higgs Report and the resultant revised Combined Code in the UK as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Charles Miller Smith Chairman 84 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Biographies of Board members, giving details of their Corporate Governance experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages 1 Statement 81 and 82.
Any changes to the other commitments of the Scottish Power plc is committed to the highest standards of directors are reported to the Board and the companys position corporate governance.
This statement, together with the on executive directors undertaking external non-executive Remuneration Report of the Directors set out on pages 95 to appointments is set out on page 100 of the Remuneration 105, describes how the company has applied the principles Report.
The diverse experience and backgrounds of the nonof good corporate governance set out in Section 1 of the executive directors ensures that they can debate with and Combined Code in the UK and has complied with the constructively challenge management both in relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and associated rules to the extent development of strategy and in relation to operational and they currently apply to the company in the US.
In respect of financial performance.
the financial year ended 31 March 2005, the company has All of the non-executive directors are considered by the complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Board to be independent in character and judgement, having Combined Code, except in one respect arising from Code no material relationship with the company.
The decision of the provision D. 1.1 which is concerned with dialogue with major Board to make this determination was informed by shareholders on issues of governance and strategy.
An questionnaires completed at the year-end by all non-executive explanation of this is contained in the statement below under directors, based on the independence tests contained in the the heading Relations with Shareholders.
Combined Code, the corporate governance rules contained in The company has taken account of the corporate the listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the tests governance rules contained in the listing rules of the New York for the independence of audit committee members contained Stock Exchange as they apply to foreign issuers and a in rules promulgated by the US Securities and Exchange summary of the differences between those rules and the Commission.
companys practices is contained in the statement below.
Nolan Karras and Nancy Wilgenbusch served as directors of PacifiCorp from 1993 and 1986 respectively until the merger in 1999: Mr Karras joined the Scottish Power plc Board immediately on the merger while Dr Wilgenbusch joined the Board in 2004.
Mr Karras remains a director of PacifiCorp but 2 Board Composition receives no additional fee for this service and is chair of the The Board comprises the Chairman, five executive directors PacifiCorp Utah regional advisory board.
Dr Wilgenbusch and seven non-executive directors.
The Chairman is Charles serves as chair of the PacifiCorp Pacific regional advisory Miller Smith, the Chief Executive is Ian Russell and Donald board.
Both directors receive emoluments in the US for their Brydon is the senior independent director.
The chairmen and service on the regional advisory boards as detailed in the members of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Remuneration Report.
The regional advisory boards link the Committees are listed on page 83 and in the reports from the company with the communities it serves in the US and enable respective Committees.
Details of the attendance of Board it to maintain constructive relationships with key stakeholder members at meetings of the Board and its Committees are set groups.
In assessing independence, the Board considered that There is a clear division of authority at the most senior service on the PacifiCorp board prior to the merger date level within the company through the separation of the roles of should be disregarded on account of a new company, with a Chairman and Chief Executive.
This ensures that no one substantially refreshed board, having been formed.
The Board individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The division of considered that the emoluments for service on the respective responsibilities between the role of the Chairman to run the advisory boards constituted fees paid for service on a Board and the role of the Chief Executive to run the committee of the PacifiCorp board as PacifiCorp is an affiliate companys business is documented in writing and has been of the company, these fees qualify for an exemption contained agreed by the Board.
in rules, relating to independence standards for audit The senior independent director serves on the Nomination, committee members, promulgated under the US Securities Remuneration and Audit Committees and is the presiding Exchange Act of 1934.
The Board considered that their director at meetings of the non-executive directors.
He is payment does not in any way compromise the independence of responsible for providing feedback to the Chairman following the directors.
Accordingly, the Board concluded that all of the the evaluation conducted by all directors of the performance non-executive directors are independent and that therefore it of the Chairman.
He is also available to shareholders for meets the Combined Code requirement that at least half the concerns which have not been resolved by contact with the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent Chairman or Chief Executive or for which such contact is non-executive directors.
85 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Corporate Governance Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term current director and officer of the company.
Once granted, of three years and re-appointment is not automatic.
It is these indemnities will be available for inspection by company policy that, other than in exceptional circumstances, shareholders at the companys registered office.
In addition, all non-executive directors should serve no more than two threedirectors have access to the advice and services of the Company year terms.
Directors also stand for re-election by the Secretary and can take independent professional advice at the shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
appointment and at regular intervals of not more than three years thereafter.
Decisions on re-election are informed by the results of the performance evaluation of the director concerned.
The report from the Nomination Committee below Board Proceedings 3 explains the process for selection of directors and sets out the During the year, the Board planned to hold 12 monthly Committees responsibility for reviewing the composition of the meetings, six at locations in the UK and US and the remaining Board and for succession planning.
The Committee kept the six by telephone conference, with additional meetings being composition of the Board under review throughout the year, arranged as required.
As an outcome of the Board performance considering the size and diversity of the Board in terms of its evaluation conducted in 2004, the Board meeting programme gender, age and nationality profile as well as the skills, was reviewed during the year in an effort to make best use of experience and connections of individual directors.
Directors and officers of the company and its subsidiaries For a number of years, the company has provided an have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance opportunity within the scheduled meeting programme for the policy which provides appropriate cover in respect of legal non-executive directors to meet on occasion without the action brought against its directors.
Article 159 of the Chairman or executive directors present.
The meeting is companys Articles of Association provides that every director structured so that the Chairman and Chief Executive are in or officer of the company shall be entitled to be indemnified attendance for the first part of the meeting.
The Chief by the company to the extent permissible under UK company Executive then retires, leaving the Chairman to continue the law in respect of liabilities incurred in connection with their meeting with the non-executive directors.
Similarly, after an duties, powers or office.
The Board has approved the granting appropriate time, the Chairman leaves the meeting, with the of deeds of indemnity in similar terms to Article 159 to each non-executive directors continuing the discussion alone under Table 46 Board and Committee attendance during the year ended 31 March 2005 Charles Vicky Euan Mair Donald Philip Sir Peter Nolan Nick Nancy Ian Charles Judi Simon David 5 2 3 4 6 7 8 Miller Smith Bailey Baird Barnes Brydon Carroll Gregson Karras Rose Wilgenbusch Russell Berry Johansen Lowth Nish N A R N, R N, R, A R, A N, R, A N, R, A R, A N, R N Board 1 11 meetings 11 8 1 4 10 10 411 7 91111111111 Nomination Committee 4 meetings 4 1 3 1 4 3 4 Remuneration Committee 2 meetings 01221201 Audit Committee 6 meetings 3 66355 N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee A Audit Committee Committee Chairman 1 While the Board planned to hold 12 monthly meetings, a change in the timing of the meetings during the period meant that 11 scheduled meetings were held, with the final meeting for the year actually taking place in early April 2005.
2 Vicky Bailey was appointed to the Board, and to the Audit Committee, in June 2004.
3 Euan Baird was absent from the Board and Remuneration Committee due to ill health for the duration of the year until January 2005.
4 Mair Barnes retired from the Board, and from the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, in July 2004.
5 Donald Brydon was appointed to the Nomination Committee in June 2004.
6 Sir Peter Gregson retired from the Board, and from the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees, in July 2004.
7 Nick Rose was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in June 2004.
8 Nancy Wilgenbusch was appointed to the Board, and to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, in June 2004.
86 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 the guidance of the senior independent director.
In the as the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees, the 2004 05 financial year, a meeting was held in April 2004 but Board has also established a Group Finance Committee, the meeting planned for October 2004 was cancelled due to chaired by Philip Carroll and comprising both executive and prevailing circumstances.
A further meeting was held in early non-executive directors, which allows for more detailed April 2005, and one of the main purposes of this was to scrutiny of financing issues than would be possible within the coincide with the conclusion in 2004 05 of the process of confines of regular Board meetings.
It has authority to approve Board performance evaluation.
financing transactions within the strategy set by the Board.
The Board adopted the current schedule of matters Reports from the Nomination and Audit Committees are reserved to it for decision in January 2004.
This schedule is contained in the statement below.
The activities of the intended to ensure that the Board retains full control over Remuneration Committee are described in the Remuneration strategy, investment and capital expenditure, and limits the Report on pages 95 to 105. decisions which can be taken by management in the areas of governance, strategic and financial management and reporting, capital structure, corporate actions, mergers and acquisitions, Directors Induction and energy management, contracts and other commitments, 4 Professional Development litigation and regulatory proceedings, and remuneration and All newly appointed directors receive a full and structured share plans.
Where authority is delegated to management, it is induction to ensure they have the necessary knowledge and on a structured basis according to a delegation of authority understanding of the company and its activities.
The induction matrix based on the schedule of matters reserved to the programme takes into account each directors particular Board, ensuring that proper oversight and accountability exist background and experience in order to develop a plan tailored at the appropriate level.
Within management, the Executive to their requirements, including any additional responsibilities Team, which meets at least once a month either physically or which they may take on such as membership of Committees.
by telephone conference, ensures executive focus on groupwide The programme commences at the pre-appointment stage with performance and risk management, while each of the four the provision of targeted, practical information to facilitate due businesses PacifiCorp, Infrastructure Division, UK Division diligence and general familiarisation.
It then continues on an and PPM Energy holds monthly board meetings involving the incremental basis over the first six months of the appointment, Chief Executive and Finance Director as well as senior first with introductory meetings with key members of divisional management.
management and then with briefing sessions covering Board meetings involve reviews of financial and business governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance and risk performance against the plan approved by the Board and risk management, and human resources strategy the latter two management, both at a group level and also for each of the sessions being targeted specifically at ensuring directors have a four businesses, on a month-by-month basis.
They also cover clear understanding of the roles of the Audit and strategic issues, business issues requiring decision often in Remuneration Committees, even if they do not themselves relation to capital expenditure projects and other specific serve on these Committees.
These internal sessions are issues for decision or information.
On a rotating basis, the supplemented by occasional presentations from external Board receives presentations from each of the businesses and advisers on specific topics, such as remuneration issues.
Over other key functions, enabling it to explore specific issues and this period, new directors also undertake site visits to business developments in more detail.
Any matter requiring a decision locations in the UK and US.
The cycle of business overview by the Board will be supported by a paper analysing relevant presentations made to the Board serves to deepen each new aspects of the proposal for example, in the case of capital directors understanding of the company.
A record is expenditure, the expected returns and a comparison with the maintained for each director to track their progress through investment hurdles set by the Board, as well as potential risks the induction programme, and a review is conducted at the and proposed management action.
end of the directors first year in office to assess any further The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that induction requirements.
Board procedures are observed and for advising the Board on Two new non-executive directors Vicky Bailey and Nancy all corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretarys Wilgenbusch were appointed during the 2004 05 financial remit also encompasses ensuring good information flows year.
At the time of appointment of new non-executive within the Board and its Committees as well as facilitating the directors they are available to meet with shareholders on programme of directors induction and professional request.
development and the Board performance evaluation exercise.
Continuing professional development is provided through The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is briefing sessions in the course of, or linked to, regular Board reserved to the Board for its decision.
meetings, and these cover business-specific and broader The Board is supported by a number of committees: as well 87 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Corporate Governance regulatory issues.
Topics covered by such briefing sessions to decision-making, and constructive challenging of during the year have included energy risk management, information.
In addition to a number of generic statements, technology and engineering, company values and the additional competencies were included for the roles of transmission and distribution price reviews.
Directors also Chairman, Chief Executive, executive and non-executive receive a monthly in-house newsletter highlighting topical director.
Again, the ratings and comments provided were developments of relevance to ScottishPower in the fields of synthesised by the ICSA into a consolidated report for each corporate governance, company law and related issues.
These reports were provided to each director Further, the annual performance evaluation of individual individually and formed the basis of a feedback session directors outlined below provides an opportunity for the between the Chairman and the director.
The evaluation of the training and development needs of Board members to be Chairman followed the same process, with input from the nonidentified and addressed on a structured basis.
executive and executive directors: feedback to the Chairman was provided by the senior independent director.
A summary of the results for all directors was provided to the Nomination Committee at its meeting in early April 2005, and informed the Board Performance Committee in its consideration of those directors to be Evaluation 5 recommended to the Board for re-election at the forthcoming During the year, the company engaged the Institute of AGM as well as the broader training and development needs of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA to directors.
undertake an independent external evaluation of the The Board was satisfied that the evaluation process was performance of the Board, its principal Committees rigorous and effective.
The evaluation of the Board as a whole Nomination, Remuneration and Audit and individual produced another very favourable result, building on the last directors.
This represented a natural progression from the two evaluations.
Good progress was noted in the areas of previous two financial years, during which the evaluation also Board responsibilities, monitoring of management, strategy conducted externally by the ICSA had focussed on the development, risk assessment, and information provision.
performance of the Board as a whole.
The evaluation process Recognising that there is always scope for improvement, the was led by the Chairman, with the support of the Company report recommended consideration of a number of issues Secretary, and progress updates were provided to the where further progress could be made.
The Board reviewed Nomination Committee and to the Board.
All directors these points at its meeting in early April 2005 and was participated in the evaluation, with the exception of Euan supportive of effecting change to address the Baird who had been absent from the Board for substantially all recommendations.
The evaluation of the Committees found of the year due to ill health.
them to be generally effective in supporting the Board and a The evaluation of the Board and its Committees was number of the recommendations made echoed the results of conducted on the basis of private interviews held between each the Board evaluation.
individual director and the ICSA facilitator in the case of the Committees, additional specific questions were asked of Committee members and views were also canvassed from key Relations with executives having a close link with the work of the particular Shareholders 6 Committee as well as, in the case of the Audit Committee, the external auditors.
The topics discussed during the course of The company has a well-established investor relations the interviews included the responsibilities and oversight of the programme for major shareholders, promoting dialogue Board, meeting arrangements, information and support, Board through analysts briefings involving the Chief Executive, composition, and decision-making and output.
Similar topics Finance Director and other members of management, as well were covered in respect of each of the Committees.
The results as extensive investor roadshows in the UK, US and Europe.
As of these interviews were documented, agreed with the individual well as reviewing the companys financial and operational director and then collectively formed the basis of a report performance, these presentations provide shareholders with including specific recommendations from the ICSA which information on the companys strategy and its delivery.
Further was presented to the Board at its meeting in early April 2005. communication takes place through site visits, roundtable As regards the evaluation of individual performance, each presentations and timely stock exchange announcements.
The director completed a questionnaire rating, and provided Board, and in particular non-executive directors, is kept comments on, their own performance and that of each of their informed of investors views principally through the fellow directors against a range of key competencies.
These distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
In addition, the competencies included strategic thinking, commitment and company undertakes periodic research using Makinson Cowell, preparedness, listening and communication skills, contribution an independent adviser, to ascertain the views of shareholders, 88 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 and the conclusions of this research are reported to the Board.
result only in the level of the proposed dividend being These channels are considered to offer the most practical and approved or reduced.
effective method of communicating shareholder opinion to the Board on a regular basis.
The Chairman and the senior independent director and Report from indeed other non-executive directors are available to Nomination Committee 7 shareholders in the event of any concerns arising which cannot Charles Miller Smith, the Chairman of the company, is the be addressed through management, or in connection with any Chairman of the Committee.
Mair Barnes and Sir Peter significant change to the companys strategy, remuneration Gregson served on the Committee until their retirement at the policy or governance arrangements.
However, it is not the AGM on 23 July 2004: Donald Brydon and Nancy companys practice for the Chairman or senior independent Wilgenbusch, both independent directors, were appointed to director to meet routinely with major shareholders: it is the Committee with effect from 1 June 2004.
The other believed that the approach described in this section offers a members of the Committee throughout the year were Nolan more efficient method of maintaining contact with Karras, an independent director, and Ian Russell, the Chief shareholders, and to date there has been little evidence of Executive.
Accordingly, throughout the year, the majority of the demand from shareholders for such meetings.
As a result, the members of the Committee have been independent noncompany has not strictly complied with provision D. 1.1 of the executive directors.
Details of their qualifications and Combined Code.
The company is committed to keeping this experience are set out on pages 81 and 82.
Andrew Mitchell, situation under review in the year ahead.
Company Secretary, or his deputy, acts as secretary to the Broader shareholder communication takes place through Committee.
the companys website, which contains recent company The Committee has written terms of reference and these announcements and other useful information, including profiles are available on the companys website.
The terms of reference of Board members and terms of reference of the Nomination, which were reviewed by the Committee during the year Remuneration and Audit Committees.
This Annual Report & provide that the principal role of the Committee is to: Accounts includes a wealth of information for those shareholders who choose to receive it: the Annual Review review the structure, size and composition including the provides a more concise version which summarises key issues skills, knowledge and experience required by the Board: and developments during the year.
The Annual General give full consideration to succession planning for directors Meeting gives shareholders the opportunity to hear in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief presentations on the companys financial and business Executive, taking into account the challenges and performance as well as to question the Board on its stewardship opportunities facing the company and what skills and of the company.
It is expected that all directors will attend the expertise are needed on the Board in the future: AGM and that the chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees, along with other directors, will be identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, available to answer questions.
All resolutions at the AGM are candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: voted by poll, with full results including the number of votes evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on withheld published following the close of the meeting.
the Board and keep under review the leadership needs of the The company declares and pays dividends on a quarterly organisation: basis.
This practice has been followed since the time of the merger with PacifiCorp in 1999, at which time the Articles of keep under review legal and regulatory developments in Association adopted by the company empowered the directors relation to corporate governance and consider changes to the to declare both interim and final dividends.
Accordingly, it has companys policy and practices to address such developments.
not been the companys practice to propose a resolution on the The Committee has developed a robust process for the final dividend or on the dividend policy for the approval of selection and recruitment of directors.
Following a review of shareholders at the AGM.
The payment of dividends by the the Boards size, composition and diversity, the Committee company follows a regular pattern, with the fourth quarter determines the selection criteria and the role specification.
dividend becoming payable during the month of June.
If this External selection consultants are retained to conduct dividend were to be made contingent on the approval of searches.
The Committee reviews the profiles of the candidates shareholders at the AGM at the end of July as has been and interviews are carried out.
The Committee then makes its suggested by certain shareholder representative groups, this recommendations to the Board for approval.
payment timetable would be delayed significantly.
It is not Two non-executive directors Vicky Bailey and Nancy considered to be in the best interests of shareholders to delay Wilgenbusch were selected by the Committee during the year.
the payment of dividends when any shareholder vote could The Committee agreed search criteria, detailing the required 89 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Corporate Governance experience and diversity profile, which were given to selection policies, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, consultants in the UK and US.
The Committee then considered judgmental issues and the findings of the external auditors: the profiles of a number of candidates identified both as a the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function: result of the external search and through internal contacts and meetings were held between members of the Committee along the relationship with the external auditors, including the with other directors and the favoured candidates.
Vicky Bailey engagement of auditors, the audit scope and approach, fees was identified by the external consultants while Nancy and performance, and policy on provision of non-audit Wilgenbusch was identified through her membership of the services by the external auditors and recruitment of former PacifiCorp Pacific regional advisory board and as a result of external auditors by the company: her profile as a distinguished community administrator.
The compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: Committee considered that both candidates fulfilled the search criteria and would make a strong contribution to the Board, litigation and claims affecting the group.
bringing differing but equally valuable perspectives to its In addition, the terms of reference of the Committee deliberations.
encompass the receipt and review by the Committee of any During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Committee met complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or on four occasions.
In addition to identifying and nominating auditing matters and of any confidential, anonymous submissions candidates as directors for approval by the Board, the by employees regarding questionable accounting or auditing Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its matters.
They also empower the Committee to engage external Committees and considered issues of management succession, counsel or other advisers at the expense of the company.
in particular in relation to the role of Finance Director.
In Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the performance of its corporate governance role, the Committee Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director Group examined the companys approach to dialogue with major Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditors.
shareholders, considered the directors induction and However, the Committee holds regular private sessions to meet professional development programme including monitoring separately with senior management, representatives of Internal the progress of directors through the programme, oversaw the Audit and the external auditors, and, where appropriate, Board evaluation exercise and approved, for submission to the external counsel.
Board, a statement of the respective responsibilities of the During the year ended 31 March 2005 the Committee met Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Committee reviewed the quarterly and annual results announcements of both Scottish Power plc and PacifiCorp and received quarterly reports on the work of the Report from Internal Audit function, including the results of audits Audit Committee 8 undertaken during the period and delivery of the audit plan.
It Nick Rose is the Chairman of the Committee and has also also received more detailed presentations on risk and control been identified as the audit committee financial expert for issues from the management of each of the four businesses, Scottish Power plc.
Sir Peter Gregson served on the Committee allowing the Committee to question and challenge until his retirement at the AGM on 23 July 2004: Vicky Bailey management directly on these issues.
The Committee also was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 June 2004. received reports on actions being taken to enhance the control The other members of the Committee throughout the year were environment relating to legal compliance, including Donald Brydon, Philip Carroll and Nolan Karras.
All of the introduction of whistleblowing arrangements across the members of the Committee are independent non-executive group to allow employees to raise concerns confidentially directors.
Details of their qualifications and experience are set through an external agency.
Andrew Mitchell, Company Secretary, In addition, the Committee monitored progress on two or his deputy, acts as secretary to the Committee.
significant projects affecting the group, namely implementation of The Committee has written terms of reference and these International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and are available on the companys website.
The terms of reference Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Key issues which were reviewed by the Committee during the year considered by the Committee in relation to IFRS included the provide that the principal role of the Committee is to review: treatment of the groups energy management and treasury activities under International Accounting Standard 39 the effectiveness of the system of internal control and Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In consider reports from both internal and external auditors on relation to Section 404, regular reports from each of the four key risks facing the group and controls over these risks: businesses ensured that the Committee remained aware of the companys financial statements, including accounting progress and issues as they arose during the year.
90 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 investigated and reported.
The company has also adopted a revised Speaking Out and Whistleblower Protection Policy, 9 Internal Control incorporating a confidential, external reporting service The directors of ScottishPower have overall responsibility for operated by an independent provider.
This Policy covers the establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal reporting and investigation of suspected fraud and controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
The misappropriation, questionable accounting, financial reporting effectiveness of the system is kept under review on a continual or auditing matters, breaches of internal financial control basis throughout the year through the work of the Audit procedures, and serious breaches of behaviour and ethical Committee on the Boards behalf.
The system of internal principles.
It provides for all such reports made through the control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
In external service, and all other internal reports judged material, pursuing these objectives, internal control can only provide to be communicated to the Audit Committee.
Again, reasonable and not absolute assurance against material PacifiCorp currently adheres to its own procedure in this misstatement or loss.
regard, offering employees the alternative of contacting an The Executive Team is responsible for implementing the internal fraud hotline or reporting breaches of the Guide to risk management strategy: ensuring that an appropriate risk Business Conduct to designated internal company officers or management framework is operating effectively across the the PacifiCorp ombudsman.
These reports are communicated group: embedding a risk culture throughout the group: and to the Audit Committee on the same basis as under the providing the Board and the Audit Committee with a Speaking Out and Whistleblower Protection Policy.
consolidated view of the risk profile of the company, A Disclosure Committee, constituted at management level, identifying any major exposures and mitigating actions.
is in place to ensure effective disclosure controls are operating The risk management framework and internal control system around the production of key published financial statements and across the group, which is subject to continuous development, to provide assurance to the Chief Executive and Finance Director provides the basis on which the company has complied with the that they may sign their formal certification to the SEC in Combined Code provisions on internal control.
accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Identification and 10 Control Environment Evaluation of Risks and The company is committed to ensuring that a proper control 11 Control Objectives environment is maintained.
There is a commitment to The companys strategy is to follow an appropriate risk policy, competence and integrity and to the communication of ethical which effectively manages exposures related to the values and control consciousness to managers and employees.
During the year, the company produced a new document, Each business identifies and assesses the key business risks Compliance Behaviour and the Law, which aims to summarise associated with the achievement of its strategic objectives.
Any some of the main legal, regulatory, cultural and business key actions needed to enhance the control environment are standards applicable to all employees.
This document has been identified, along with the person responsible for the distributed to all employees in the UK and to employees of PPM management of the specific risk.
Each month, a detailed review Energy in the US: employees of PacifiCorp are required to adhere of the key risks, controls and action plans within each of the to its Guide to Business Conduct, which contains similar content.
businesses takes place and a Risk Report is produced for Furthermore, in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of review and challenge by the business boards at their monthly 2002, the company has adopted a Code of Ethics for the Chief meetings.
This is a key tool in ensuring the active management Executive, Finance Director and principal accounting officers a of risk across the organisation.
copy of this document will be filed with the companys report to Business controls managers have been appointed within the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC on Form each of the businesses to help ensure that the risk management 20-F. Human resources policies underpin that commitment by a and internal controls system is consistently adopted, updated focus on enhancing job skills and promoting high standards of and embedded into the business processes.
In addition, the appropriate organisational The corporate centre also considers those risks to the structure has been developed within which to control the groups strategic objectives that may not be identified and businesses and to delegate authority and accountability, having managed at a business level.
regard to acceptable levels of risk.
The Board and Executive Team receive on a monthly basis The company has in place a fraud policy and procedures to the groupwide Risk Report, together with supporting ensure that all incidences of fraud are appropriately documentation, for review.
This report highlights the most 91 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Corporate Governance significant risks across the group and the actions being taken capital budgeting process, and to monitor the post-investment to mitigate them, and also identifies the individuals responsible appraisal process.
In particular, the GIC reviews all business for the management of these risks.
The information being acquisitions and disposals and new business ventures.
supplied to the Board and Executive Team is continually being developed to include quantitative measures such as sensitivity analyses and Value-at-Risk calculations for issues reported in Monitoring and the Group Energy Risk Report.
14 Corrective Action The use of a well-defined risk management methodology The Executive Team reviews monthly the key risks facing the across all businesses allows a consistent and coordinated group and the controls and monitoring procedures for these.
approach to risk reporting for review by the Board, which also Operation of the groups control and monitoring procedures is receives regular reports on these matters from the Audit reviewed and tested by the groups Internal Audit function Committee, to enable the directors to review the effectiveness under the supervision of the Director Group Internal Audit, of the system of internal control on a regular basis.
with a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and to the A key element and requirement of the risk evaluation Finance Director.
Internal Audit reports and recommendations process is that a written certificate is provided quarterly by all on the groups procedures are reviewed regularly by the Audit members of the Executive Team, confirming that they have Committee.
The external auditors also provide reports to the reviewed the effectiveness during the period of the system of Audit Committee on matters in relation to the groups internal internal control under their responsibility.
financial control procedures identified during the course of A further measure in managing exposure to risk is the their audit.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports ongoing development of a formalised and coherent approach on the continued development, implementation and evaluation to business continuity management, which is underpinned and of the risk management and internal control system.
validated by testing and continuous development.
15 Auditor Independence 12 Energy Management The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have A Group Energy Risk Committee GERC has been safeguards to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity established to assist the Executive Team in ensuring that there is and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards an appropriate risk and control governance framework in place include adoption by the Audit Committee of a policy regarding over energy activities.
The GERC meets monthly and the key pre-approval of audit and permitted non-statutory audit responsibility of this group is to make suitable recommendations services provided by the external auditors and a policy on the to the Executive Team on energy-related risk policy issues.
In hiring of former external audit staff by the group.
addition, the Group Energy Risk Director, with other members Where the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is of the GERC, continues to enhance business processes and generally considered reasonable to be completed by the systems to ensure that all risks pertaining to the energy external auditors for sound commercial and practical reasons, management businesses are understood, quantified, managed including confidentiality, the conduct of such work will be and reported on a consistent basis across the group.
permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the The GERC also provides advice and guidance to the Audit Committee.
Examples of pre-approved services include businesses on interpretation and execution of the Group the completion of regulatory audits, provision of taxation and Energy Management and Risk Management Policy.
regulatory advice, reporting in relation to SEC and UK Listing Authority requirements and the completion of certain financial due diligence work.
Under the policy, any work performed in excess of a pre-defined limit being an initial fee value in excess 13 Capital Investment of 100,000 must also be approved by the Finance Director Substantial capital investment proposals are reviewed by the and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Group Investment Committee GIC, chaired by the Finance Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 31 Director, to ensure that they are in line with the groups March 2005 with equivalent information for the year ended strategy, achieve the required rate of return, comply with legal 31 March 2004 are shown in Table 47 below: requirements and commercial practice, and are supported by robust financial analysis.
The role of the GIC, acting on behalf of the Executive Team, is to review the groups capital programme, monthly and quarterly capital expenditure and 92 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Table 47 on the groups shortand long-term value.
SEE matters are also Auditors remuneration included in the induction and development programme for 2004 05 2003 04 directors.
m m In terms of risk identification and management, SEE Audit services matters are included in the overall risk and control framework statutory audit 1.7 1.5 audit-related regulatory reporting 0.7 0.4 and in the Risk Report which is reviewed on a monthly basis by Further assurance services 2.5 0.7 the Board and Executive Team.
The company also employs Tax services management tools such as balanced scorecards to measure compliance services 1.0 1.6 advisory services 0.4 0.8 progress against key strategic priorities and has developed an Total UK and US audit and non-audit International Leadership Model which integrates values with fees paid to auditors 6.3 5.0 performance throughout the business.
Further assurance services principally represents fees associated with Further information regarding SEE matters can be found in due diligence work and advice regarding the implementation of s404 of the Business Review section of this Report.
In addition, the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
company publishes separately an Environmental and Social Impact Report, which includes information on the companys All of these fees were either specifically approved by the SEE policies and practices and internal governance structures, Audit Committee or were subject to the pre-approval and individual performance reports which will appear on the procedure described above.
The Environmental and Social Impact Safeguards are also in place to protect the independence of Report and the performance reports are verified and the Internal Audit department.
The department reports directly independently assured by csr network, a corporate social to the Audit Committee: the Committee reviews the Internal responsibility consultancy firm.
Audit work plan and sets the departments budget.
In addition, the Committee is required to approve the appointment, replacement, reassignment or dismissal of the Director Group Political Donations Internal Audit.
18 and Expenditure ScottishPower is a politically neutral organisation but is required to comply with the Political Parties, Elections and Evaluation of Disclosure Referendums Act 2000.
This legislation defines political Controls and Procedures donations and expenditure in wider terms than would be 16 commonly understood by these phrases.
The definitions include Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 expenditure which the Board believes it is in the interests of the The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have evaluated company to incur.
The Act also requires companies to obtain the effectiveness of the groups disclosure controls and prior shareholder approval of this expenditure: at the Annual procedures as at the end of the period covered by this report.
General Meeting in 2004 the company obtained authorisation Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive and Finance up to a maximum amount of 100,000.
Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures During the financial year ended 31 March 2005, the as they are defined in Rule 13a-15 e under the Securities company paid a total of 26,645 for activities which may be Exchange Act of 1934, as amended are effective.
regarded as falling within the terms of the Act.
The recipients of There has been no change to the groups internal controls these payments were: that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, these controls over financial reporting during the period The Labour Party 18,095 covered by this report.
The Conservative and Unionist Party 3,500 Liberal Democrats 1,300 Social, Environmental Scottish National Party 2,750 17 and Ethical Matters Plaid Cymru 1,000.
The Board receives monthly operational reports which include consideration of relevant developments across the group in These activities comprised the sponsorship of briefings and social, environmental and ethical SEE matters.
This enables receptions at party conferences and attendance at party events.
the Board to take regular account of the strategic significance of These occasions present an important opportunity for the SEE matters to the group, and to consider the risks and company to represent its views on a non-partisan basis to opportunities arising from these issues that may have an impact politicians from across the political spectrum.
The payments do 93 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Corporate Governance not indicate support, and are not intended to influence support, for any particular political party.
It should be noted that these activities do not contravene the restrictions on political contributions under the US Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, to which the company is subject.
NYSE Corporate 19 Governance Rules The New York Stock Exchange NYSE issued extensively revised corporate governance rules for its listed companies in 2003 and these were updated in November 2004.
While these rules are mandatory for US incorporated companies whose shares are listed on NYSE, foreign issuers such as Scottish Power plc are exempt from a number of the requirements and may adopt different practices that reflect home country practice.
With the exception of two specific areas, the company complies fully with these rules, which are broadly comparable to the requirements of the Combined Code.
The two areas where the company does not comply with the NYSE rules are: Composition of the Nomination Committee in line with UK corporate governance practice, the Nomination Committee comprises a majority of independent nonexecutive directors, but does also include both the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The NYSE rules would require all members of the Committee to be independent.
Adoption of Corporate Governance principles UK listed companies are required either to comply with the Combined Code or explain why they have not done so.
As a result, the Combined Code in effect provides a set of corporate governance principles for the company addressing all of the corporate governance guidelines described in the NYSE rules, and accordingly the company does not believe that additional company-specific principles are necessary.
