Corporate governance report The Group has a well-established and embedded system of internal control... designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets and reputation.
The Board of Serco Group plc the Company from that of the Chief Executive who focuses on is committed to achieving high standards of the formation and implementation of the Group corporate governance, integrity and business strategy, chairing and managing the Global ethics for all its activities around the world.
Management Board and delivery of all aspects of The Company supports the Combined Code the business.
Job specifications are in place for on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial both the Executive Chairman and the Chief Reporting Council the Combined Code.
Executive defining their roles and responsibilities.
The Company has achieved full compliance with The Board have reviewed and re-approved the Section 1 of the Combined Code during 2005. individual roles and responsibilities of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive during the year.
The Board and its Directors The Directors profiles are set out on page 57.
The Board currently comprises seven directors, Kevin Beeston, Margaret Ford, Ralph Hodge, The Board believes that all the Non-Executive Christopher Hyman, Andrew Jenner, DeAnne Directors are independent of management and Julius and David Richardson.
Excluding the free from any business or other relationship, which Executive Chairman, the Board comprises four could materially interfere with the exercise of their Non-Executive Directors and two other Executive independent judgment.
They bring a wide range of Directors.
In February 2005 the Board approved the experience to the Board including international appointment of Leonard V. Broese van Groenou as business operations, strategy, human resources, a Non-Executive Director effective from 3 April finance and economics.
Ralph Hodge will be retiring from the Board Director is DeAnne Julius.
David Richardson is following the completion of the Annual General the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
David was Meeting in May 2006. previously the Finance Director of a FTSE 100 Company and the Board believes that David has Since the Group has been listed it has been run the relevant financial experience to chair this with a structure consisting of both an Executive Committee as recommended by the Combined Chairman and a Chief Executive with distinct and Code.
The Non-Executive Directors have met on complementary roles.
The Group has also an informal basis during the year without the maintained a position of Senior Independent presence of the Executive Directors.
The NonDirector throughout this time.
Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, which may be extended for a The Board continues to believe in the need for a further period of three years.
full time Executive Chairman who is responsible for the effective operation of the Board, oversight of During the year the Board met on four occasions corporate governance and assurance activities, for two days at a time, at varying locations, and and the Companys relationship with the City and took the opportunity to combine the formal key business stakeholders.
This role is distinct business of the Group with site visits and divisional www.
com 45 Corporate governance report presentations and discussions.
Six additional Other Directorships The Board believes that it is in meetings were held during the first quarter of the the customers best interests for Executive Directors year to approve various stages of the acquisitions to gain additional experience through limited, but of ITNET and RCI.
No apologies were received for carefully selected, non-executive appointments.
Christopher Hyman is a Non-Executive Director of United Business Media plc for which he received There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for 35,000 in remuneration and 1,577 shares during the Board including the responsibility for leading the year.
He is also Non-Executive Director of the and directing the affairs of the Group.
This schedule Prince of Wales charity In Kind Direct which is a together with the terms of reference for each of the non-fee earning role.
Kevin Beeston is a NonBoard Committees were reviewed and revised by Executive Director of Ipswich Town Football Club the Board in November 2003 following publication plc and a Non-Executive of IMI plc for which he of the revised Combined Code.
Terms of reference received fees of 35,995.
His role with Ipswich of the Committees are available on the Companys Town Football Club is non-fee earning.
Membership of the fully supportive of the external roles undertaken by Committees was revised following the changes to Kevin and Christopher and consider that the time the Board in May 2004. commitment required will not significantly impact their positions in the Company.
Board evaluation in December 2004, a rigorous evaluation of the Board and its Committees was Board committees undertaken which included a formal evaluation The Board has delegated authority to a number questionnaire and 1:1 meetings for all Directors of committees to deal with matters in accordance held with the Chairman plus an evaluation of the with written terms of reference.
The terms of Chairmans performance led by the Senior reference were reviewed and revised in November Independent Director.
During 2005, further meetings 2003 to take account of the changes to the have been held to review the individual roles and Combined Code.
The Chairmen of the Board responsibilities of the Board and its Committees.
committees attend the Annual General Meeting A small number of procedural changes were made to answer questions from shareholders.
as a result of the evaluation.
The terms of reference for the Board committees All Directors have access to the Company and matters reserved for the Board are displayed Secretary and independent professional advice at on the Companys website www.
The Company Secretary has the responsibility for ensuring that the Board The Audit Committee procedures are followed and for advising on The Audit Committee is chaired by David governance matters.
The appointment and removal Richardson.
Margaret Ford and DeAnne Julius, of the Company Secretary is one of the matters Non-Executive Directors, are also members of the reserved for the Board.
In accordance with best practice the is also Secretary to all the Board Committees Committee has produced a report on its activities and responsible for operation of the Groups during the year, which can be found below.
The information provided to the Board is reviewed by the Chairman Report of the Audit Committee and the Company Secretary on a regular basis, to The Audit Committee met three times during the ensure that it remains appropriate, timely and year with all Committee members in attendance adequate and enables the Directors to discharge at every meeting.
At the meetings, additionally their duties.
The information provided to the Board attended by the internal and external auditors and, was assessed as part of the earlier Board by invitation, the Finance Director, matters relating evaluation process.
to the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, the accounting policies adopted, In accordance with the Companys Articles of significant financial reporting judgements made Association, a Director must retire at the Annual and the role of the internal auditors were discussed.
General Meeting but is eligible for re-appointment During the year the Committee held discussions if he or she has held office for more than 30 months regarding the business risk auditing activities as at the date of the notice convening undertaken by the Companys internal audit the meeting since he or she was appointed or providers, Grant Thornton.
Members of the last re-appointed.
Committee have received updates on accounting standards and generally accepted accounting principles on a quarterly basis as part of the 46 Annual review and accounts 2005 Finance Directors report to the Board, and also on The Remuneration Committee a half-yearly basis from the external auditors.
The The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ralph Committee has also received a presentation and Hodge, with the other three Non-Executive Directors update reports on the impact of the International being the remainder of the Committee.
The Financial Reporting Standards on the Company Committee met five times during the year to deal and the Group.
During the year the Company has with matters relating to remuneration policy and complied with the policy set by the Committee in individual remuneration for Executive Directors.
All respect of the provision of audit and non-audit meetings were attended by each of the Committee services by Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte.
The Remuneration Report is set out on appropriate non audit services have been provided pages 59 to 68.
The Committee also considered by companies other than Deloitte.
the framework of remuneration for senior The Committee considered and recommended executives within the Group.
The individual approval of the annual audit fee for Deloitte, remuneration of these executives is considered which was subsequently approved by the Board.
and approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Global Management Board, which comprises The independence, objectivity and effectiveness the Executive Team of the Group and is advised by of the external auditors has been examined by the the Group Human Resources Director.
On the Committee and discussions were held regarding retirement of Ralph Hodge in May 2006, Margaret their terms of engagement, remuneration and Ford will take over the Chair.
The Committee has met with both the internal and external auditors There are three further committees of the Board, without the presence of the Executive Directors.
details of which are below: In accordance with the Combined Code, the The Approvals and Allotment Committee Committee is responsible for a formal whistleThis Committee meets on an as required basis blowing policy and procedure which applies and comprises the Executive Directors and the throughout the Group.
Responsibility for the Company Secretary.
Thirty one meetings were held operation of this policy has been delegated during the year.
The business of the Committee is to the Company Secretary.
varied and ranges from bid and contract approval to the releasing of share options.
The Committee The Committee recommended to the Board also considers matters requiring formal approval that Deloitte be proposed for re-appointment following discussion by the GMB.
The Committee at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
forms a key part of the Groups internal controls This recommendation has been accepted and acts to facilitate and authorise the operations and will be proposed to shareholders.
of the business on a day-to-day basis.
The level of authority delegated to this Committee is reviewed The Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Executive Chairman, who chairs the Committee, The Global Management Board GMB and the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the dayThe Committee met once during 2005 and all to-day management of the business to the GMB.
Committee members attended the meeting.
Matters The GMB comprises a number of senior managers considered included succession planning and crisis within the business and includes all three of the management planning for the Board, plus the Executive Directors.
The GMB meets formally three Board structure.
In addition the Committee led the times a year to review Company activities and process for identifying a new Non-Executive discuss operational issues.
Other meetings are Director for recommendation to the board for scheduled where required.
Representatives from appointment on the retirement of Ralph Hodge.
across the Serco businesses are often invited to The process included an evaluation of the balance the meetings to discuss aspects of their business of skills, knowledge and experience required for the or give presentations on specific topics.
Recommendations made to the Board were bringing together senior managers from across the based on an assessment of individual merit and Group, the GMB is able to take a broad view of the against objective criteria.
Matters discussed by the GMB which amongst the Nominations Committee and the require formal approval, are submitted to the Board Board suitable candidates were identified and the or the Approvals and Allotment Committee, details Committee did not consider that the use of an of which are provided above.
external search consultant or open advertising was required on this occasion.
com 47 Corporate governance report The Training and Development Committee The Company has continued its programme of The Training and Development Committee educational presentations for institutional investors comprises Margaret Ford, Christopher Hyman, and analysts, designed to improve their Ralph Hodge and is chaired by Kevin Beeston.
The understanding of the Companys businesses, Committee met once during the year to consider markets and prospects.
During 2005, the the training needs of all Directors and the Company held a seminar on its Transport business Company Secretary, ensuring the appropriateness in June, and its Defence and Home Affairs of the induction process for new Directors in businesses in November.
providing a comprehensive familiarisation programme including the role of the Board and its The Board receives an investor relations report Committees, the corporate governance framework on a quarterly basis.
This reviews share price and latest financial statements, together with site movements and valuation, changes on the share visits and meetings with senior management register, the Companys recent and planned around the Group.
In addition the Committee investor relations activities, analyst reviewed the progress made on the leadership recommendations and significant news from the development programme being implemented support services sector.
The report ensures that the across the Group.
Board has a clear understanding of the Companys investor relations performance.
All Board members are encouraged to attend training courses at the Companys expense.
The principal methods of communication with private investors remain the news announcements, The Company and its shareholders Interim Report, Annual Review and Accounts, The Board is committed to ongoing dialogue with Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, the Companys shareholders.
The Chairman and the Annual General Meeting and the Companys Finance Director are responsible for relationships website, www.
with investors, supported by the Head of Investor Relations.
The Chief Executive also regularly The website includes an area tailored for investors, attends meetings with shareholders and the Nonincluding information such as archives of all Executive Directors are encouraged to do so where reports, announcements, presentations and time allows or at investors request.
In the 2005 webcasts, share price tools, the terms of reference Investor Relations Magazine awards, investors and for all the Board committees and information on analysts voted the Company best in the support voting at the annual general meeting.
It also has a services sector for investor relations.
link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and The Company has a regular programme of events to vote on the resolutions set out in the notice of and announcements for institutional investors and the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
We presented on the interim and preliminary results, and held conference calls for Internal control and risk management overseas investors.
The presentations were also The Group has a well-established and embedded webcast.
system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk In June and December, the Company released management designed to safeguard shareholders trading updates ahead of its closed periods.
investments and the Groups assets and Throughout the year, announcements were made reputation.
Whilst the Board has overall on key business events, notably major contract responsibility for the Groups system of internal wins.
The Company also introduced news updates, control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it is the to keep investors and analysts informed of other role of management to implement the policies on developments in the business.
The Groups risk management process identifies the key risks facing each During 2005, the Company regularly met business and reports to the Board on how those institutional shareholders in the UK and North risks are being managed.
The Board confirms that America, on both a one-on-one and group basis.
this process has been in place for the year under To continue to improve the Companys dialogue review and up to the date of approval of the Annual with institutional investors, the Chairman began a Review and Accounts.
These processes are programme of meetings with senior fund managers reviewed regularly by the Board and conform to the and heads of corporate governance at a number of requirements of the Combined Code.
Such a the Companys largest shareholders.
system, however, can only be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 48 Annual review and accounts 2005 business objectives, and can only provide management process and is used to create risk, reasonable, and not absolute assurance, against opportunity, assumption and issue registers.
registers are maintained at a project contract, business unit, divisional and Group level and are The Serco Management System SMS, provides reviewed at least quarterly and more frequently as the framework within which the business divisions, required.
The risk registers identify the key risks, operating companies and contracts have the probability of those risks occurring, their implemented processes and procedures in ways potential impact on the business and the actions that are appropriate to the type of business being being taken to reduce and mitigate the risks.
Divisional Chief Executives and are prioritised using a consistent scoring system business unit managers have the responsibility and across the business.
Guidance on the risk appetite authority to implement the system and monitor its of the Group has been issued to managers which operation within their businesses.
The SMS defines defines the appetite tolerance levels both for the Groups vision and strategy, the core values individual risks and for projects or business units that define the context within which the business where multiple risks may be present.
operates, a set of business principles that define the corporate behaviour of the organisation, the The Group risk register identifies the key principal operating structure and roles and responsibilities of risks facing the business including risks that are the principal elements of the organisation and the managed directly at a Group level.
The risks core processes of the business.
identified in the Group risk register could arise as a result of internal or external events or decisions As part of the SMS, a set of policy statements has and could affect the Groups short or long term been authorised by the Board and supporting value, its reputation, the safety of its staff or third standards, guidance and training material have parties or compliance with statutory obligations.
The risk management process specifically identifies the business objectives and the interests An ethics and business conduct standard defines not only of shareholders but also of other the following principles that apply to all business stakeholders that are likely, directly or indirectly, to activities undertaken by the Group: influence the performance of the business and its value.
These include, but are not limited to, We will comply with the laws of the country in customers, suppliers, staff, trade unions, which business is being transacted government, regulators, banks and insurers.
We will respect the human rights and dignity of The interests of the wider community in areas such individuals as social, environmental and ethical impact are We will respect the traditions and culture of recognised in the Groups corporate responsibility communities and protect the environment within programme.
which we operate We will undertake our business activities in The Group risk register is updated at least accordance with the highest standards of quarterly, reviewed six monthly by the Risk professionalism, integrity and honesty.
Oversight Group and discussed at quarterly Board meetings: active risks are ranked into five These broad principles are further interpreted in categories of importance based on the risk score respect of individual and corporate behaviours.
and grouped under the following six headings: A separate standard defines the corporate responsibility programme that is implemented Business strategy covering threats to the longthroughout the Group.
term deliverability of the Groups strategy.
Principal risks of the Group include loss of A risk management standard defines the competitive position, and strategic risks processes that are required at each level in the associated with recent acquisitions organisation in order to manage and mitigate the threats to the achievement of our business Financial commercial performance covering objectives.
The risk management process adopted threats to the short term performance of the at all levels of the business is described in a Risk Groups existing business.
Principal risks of the Management Manual and supported by a set of Group include the loss of key contracts, the guidance notes covering specific aspects of the failure to meet financial business plans, pension process and techniques appropriate to particular fund liabilities and delays or cost over-runs in business activities.
An internally developed and major transition programmes supported risk database tool supports the risk www.
com 49 Corporate governance report Risk management techniques used by Serco include appropriate systems, staff, internal controls, public and media relations and business continuity planning.
Compliance covering compliance with all the Board informed of changes as they occur.
Principal risks of the Group include legal action resulting Each risk is assigned an owner at Board or senior from compliance failures, the introduction of the management level and specific risk reduction and International Financial Reporting Standards risk mitigation actions are identified.
The Board IFRS and unethical behaviour by Directors or may ask for additional information in respect of risk members of staff reduction or mitigation actions from risk owners or request that a specific audit is undertaken to Safety covering threats to the safety of staff, provide additional assurance in respect of the risk sub-contractors, members of the public and the controls.
Risk management techniques used by environment.
Risks of the Group include the Serco include appropriate systems, staff, internal responsibility of a major accident or incident controls, public and media relations and business where public safety is concerned, environmental continuity planning.
These techniques are pollution and assaults on staff in the course of designed with clarity of accountability and their duties responsibility and with certain formal policies covering areas such as compliance, safety and Business continuity covering threats to the environmental protection.
Sercos business units continuity of business operations in the event of build and maintain an understanding of their adverse events.
Principal risks of the Group operational risk profiles and are expected to fully include the failure of information systems, loss of understand the likelihood and potential impact of key infrastructure and the recruitment and any operational incidents, at the same time making retention of key staff appropriate and informed decisions that balance the risks against the potential returns and Hostile actions covering threats posed by the opportunities.
deliberate actions of individuals and organisations affecting the interests of the While operational risk can never be eliminated, the Group.
Principal risks of the Group include crime Group endeavours to minimise the impact by and fraud, pressure group action, terrorism and ensuring that appropriate infrastructure, controls, industrial action.
systems, staff and processes are in place.
Some of the key management and control techniques are Additionally, more general risks relating to the set out below: reputation of the Group are assessed by Corporate Communications and the Board on an ongoing The principles of clear delegation of authority basis.
and segregation of duties are fully reflected in the Groups operating processes For the Group, the most significant risks relate to the strategy and safety areas: social, Comprehensive business review processes environmental and ethical issues, while recognised ensure that our services and products meet within a number of the Groups risks, do not customer expectations, performance criteria, represent significant threats to the achievement of operational effectiveness, regulatory the Groups strategy at present.
All risks and requirements, investment returns and profitability potential threats are kept under regular review and 50 Annual review and accounts 2005 An Investment Committee meets on a monthly The operational risk framework tracks key risk basis to consider new or developing projects indicators.
These include analysis of business against a defined set of criteria.
Projects can performance and variances from plan, customer then be considered for the allocation of satisfaction and retention data, staff turnover and appropriate resources satisfaction levels, occupational health and safety incidents, and error and exception reporting There is a formal review and approval process for all proposals and business acquisitions including The Group maintains insurance policies to delegated authority for sign-off based on the provide protection from losses arising from financial value and capital requirement of the circumstances such as damage or destruction of transaction and the assessed risk of the project physical assets, theft and legal liability for third party loss.
The adequacy of the insurance cover Sound project and programme management and is reviewed at regular intervals.
change implementation disciplines are applied to all major development projects including new The Corporate Assurance Group CAG, reporting contract phase-ins, acquisitions, new technology directly to the Board, has the responsibility to applications, change programmes and other oversee and review the internal control and risk major initiatives policies, procedures and management framework within the Group and to develop guidance, training The commitment and capability of staff is critical material and management training to ensure the for the effective management of operational risk.
current and future needs of the business are met.
Ongoing training and career development The Board recognises not only its responsibilities to constantly improves the skills of our workforce.
shareholders but also to the wider community Selective recruitment, succession planning and where social, environmental and ethical issues are other human resource policies and practices are becoming increasingly important.
CAG is in place to ensure that staff skills are aligned with responsible for developing and overseeing the the needs of the organisation corporate responsibility activities within the Group.
The corporate responsibility model is described in Safety management systems in the Groups the separate Corporate Responsibility Report and aviation, rail, defence, nuclear and marine encompasses four elements: businesses have been addressed by the appointment of safety specialists for each area Safety recognising the Groups legal who report directly to the Board and are charged responsibility for the safety of our staff and the with maintaining and further developing the very general public for whom we have a duty of care high standards of safety expected in these industries People addressing the Groups legal and moral responsibility for its employees The Groups approach to health, safety and environmental protection is described in the Community addressing the Groups social Directors Report.
Qualified and experienced staff responsibility for the communities within which in each business unit provide advice and support we operate on health, safety and environmental issues and undertake regular audits Environment recognising the Groups legal and moral responsibility to protect the environment The Company Secretary is responsible for the from damage as a direct result of its operations review of ethical issues that may arise from the and to promote activities to protect and sustain Groups activities and for managing the the wider environment.
confidential reporting service whistle-blowing, to which staff can report illegal, dangerous, The Corporate Responsibility Report includes dishonest or unethical activities.
The process is performance measures against key objectives overseen by the Audit Committee within these four areas.
A programme of internal audits confirms the CAG reports formally to the Executive Chairman extent to which key controls are in place and and to the Board on a quarterly basis providing are being applied across the Groups business analyses of performance against previously activities.
Audit priorities are established on the established assurance targets and also advises basis of risk assessments, regulatory the Board regarding policy and future activities to requirements and business imperatives enhance best practice around the organisation.
com 51 Corporate governance report CAG has undertaken a number of reviews of and CAG.
Their programme is complementary to internal controls during 2005 including risk the Groups broader programme and has been management, health, safety and environmental designed to address internal control and risk management.
As a result of these reviews, a management processes and the recommendations number of activities have been included in CAGs of the Combined Code.
Grant Thornton reported to programme for 2006 to strengthen the Groups the Audit Committee twice during the year.
There performance in these areas.
were no material weaknesses identified as a result of the audits undertaken and corrective action has CAG sponsors five specialist Groups: been taken where deficiencies were found.
An Assurance Network Group, chaired by the In addition to contracts held in Sercos name, the Assurance Director, and comprising senior Group has material investments in a number of assurance representatives from across the joint ventures and associated companies.
During the year, this group met four times these investments are not wholly owned by Serco, to review policy and procedures, and the the Group can influence, but not control, development, integration and dissemination of management practices.
Serco representatives the SMS that defines how the Group operates within these companies ensure that the processes and procedures for identifying and managing risk A Risk Oversight Group, chaired by the Risk are appropriate for the business and that internal Director, comprising assurance representatives controls exist and are regularly monitored.
from across the Group, met twice during the year Employees from the Companys joint ventures to review the Group risk register and key risk participate in the Assurance network and the Risk controls.
This group provides additional Oversight and Rail Safety Oversight Groups.
assurance in relation to the system of internal control and risk management and enhances the Going concern Boards ability to discharge its responsibilities in The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable relation to internal control.
The role of the Risk expectation that the Group has adequate Oversight Group has been extended to address resources to continue in operational existence for emergent risks whose impact cannot yet be the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adequately defined adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Review and Accounts.
An Aviation Safety Oversight Group, chaired by the Aviation Safety Director and comprising the Compliance during 2005 aviation safety representatives from across the The Company has achieved full compliance with Group met twice during the year.
This group has the code provisions set out in section 1 of the been responsible for the implementation of the Combined Code during 2005. aviation safety management system across the Group and for transferring best practice between Sercos aviation operating companies Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf: A Rail Safety Oversight Group, chaired by the Rail Technical Director of the Integrated Transport division and comprising the rail safety representatives from across the Group was established in 2003 to oversee safety Joanne Roberts management systems within Sercos rail Secretary businesses in the United Kingdom, Denmark and Australia.
It met four times during the year Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park A Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, Bartley Way chaired by the Executive Chairman, provides Hook direction on projects that address the social and Hampshire environmental issues affecting our staff and the RG27 9UY communities within which we work.
1 March 2006 During 2005, Grant Thornton has continued to provide an internal audit function within the Group, in addition to that provided by internal peer review 52 Annual review and accounts 2005
