Combined Code The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and exemplary ethical standards in all its business dealings.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 31, explains how the Group has applied the provisions of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003.
The Board considers that it has complied with the Code provisions in all material respects throughout the year except that for the period 1 April to 29 July 2004 the Executive Directors service agreements contained a provision requiring two years notice from the Company.
This was subsequently altered to one years notice.
The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, five further Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
Their brief biographies are set out on pages 16 and 17.
There were no changes to the Board during the year to 31 March 2005, but on 16 May 2005 Mr A Auer, Mr P Johnson and Mr F Welham were appointed Directors.
Mr R Biffa will be retiring on 30 June 2005 and Mr D Downes intends to retire on 31 December 2005.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are held by separate individuals and the role of the Chairman is Non-executive.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for the operations and for development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr R Biffa and Mr I Clubb are not deemed to be independent in accordance with the criteria set out in the Combined Code due to their length of service and Mr Biffas shareholding in the Company.
Notwithstanding this, their experience, strength of character, objectivity and robust contribution to Board and Committee discussions are fully consistent with those of an independent director.
The Non-executive Directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby ensuring that no one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Nonexecutive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share option schemes.
Mr R Pointon is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board meets regularly, normally at least ten times a year, and in addition, separate strategic discussions take place.
Several meetings are held at subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and overseas where local operations are reviewed.
The Board operates under agreed terms of reference, which may delegate certain powers to Committees of the Board.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are published financial statements, strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over a defined limit, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
Matters not reserved for the Board may be delegated to senior management.
The Board is provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
The performances of the Board, its Committees and the Directors were evaluated during the year via the Company Secretary where a questionnaire was completed and reviewed by the Board.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years if eligible, and all Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for a three year term.
Any new Director appointed to the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
It has been agreed that those Non-executive Directors who have served for a period greater than nine years from initial appointment will submit themselves for annual re-election.
The Board confirms that it is satisfied that Mr I Clubb, Mr D Downes and Mr R Pointon, who are proposed for re-election at the AGM, continue to demonstrate the necessary commitment to be fully effective members of the Board.
continued The Board of Directors continued On appointment, Directors are given a comprehensive introduction to the Groups operations, including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, Directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Directors against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
The terms of reference for the Board and its Committees are available for inspection on request from the Group Company Secretary.
The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee Meetings attended by each Director.
During the year ended 31 March 2005 there were ten Board meetings, four Audit Committee meetings, six Remuneration Committee meetings and three Nomination Committee meetings.
In addition, the Board held a two day strategy meeting with senior operations management attending for part of the time.
There were three meetings of the Non-executive Directors without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended M C E Averill 10 10 4 4 6 N A 3 3 R C Biffa 10 10 446633 I M Clubb 10 10 446633 P Delaunois 10 9436533 D J Downes 10 10 4 4 6 N A 3 1 R B Pointon 10 10 446633 Invited by the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee to be in attendance for part of the meeting.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
It was chaired by Mr R Biffa during the year and comprises the Non-executive Directors see pages 16 and 17.
Normally, it meets three times a year.
The external auditors and the Executive Directors are regularly invited to attend meetings and the Committee has access to the external auditors advice without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
This includes the appointment, terms of engagement, objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit, reviews of the half-year and annual financial statements, internal control procedures, accounting policies, adherence with accounting standards and such other related functions as the Board may require.
While the Committee has collectively the skills and experience required to fully discharge its duties, no single member had recent and relevant financial experience under the requirements of the new Combined Code during the year.
However, Mr I Clubb, a member of the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant and has many years of financial experience at senior board level.
Mr A Auer who will be taking over the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee from Mr R Biffa from 30 June 2005 does have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience.
There is a whistleblowing and security reporting procedure which encourages a free and open culture within the Group in all its business dealings.
annual report 2005 The policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services is that where the work is closely related to the audit, or if the work requires a detailed understanding of the Group, or when a significant benefit can be obtained from work previously conducted, the work may be awarded to the auditors without compromising their independence.
During the year the performance of the external auditors and that of the Audit Committee itself was reviewed by means of completing a detailed questionnaire.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr R Pointon and comprises the Non-executive Directors see pages 16 and 17.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on remuneration and on a specific package for each of the Executive Directors.
It also determines the terms on which Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Executive and SAYE share options are awarded to employees.
The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Groups senior management and that of the the Chairman.
It recommends the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors for determination by the Board.
In exercising its responsibilities the Committee has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, and may consult the Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 31 contains particulars of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr I Clubb and comprises the Non-executive Directors see pages 16 and 17.
It meets as required and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession planning.
During the year the structure, composition and balance of skills of the Board were reviewed including ensuring that all members of the Board have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
It was decided that two new non-executive directors with recent and relevant financial experience should be sought and a successor was required to be found for Mr D Downes.
Following an executive search, both internally and externally, suitable candidates were identified and nominated for approval by the Board.
Pensions The assets of both the final salary and money purchase schemes are held separately from those of the Group, are invested by independent professional investment managers and cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Three trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member nominated trustees were appointed in 2004 for a period of three years.
Senior employees in Belgium are provided with defined contribution pension benefits.
In the Netherlands, employees participate in a compulsory collective transport industry wide pension scheme which provides benefits up to a certain level of pay.
Senior employees in the Netherlands earning in excess of the maximum level of pay allowed for within the compulsory pension scheme also participate in a defined contribution arrangement for the excess amount.
Relationship with Investors The Company has an active investor relations programme, with designated members of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors, analysts, press and other parties.
The Company is pleased to welcome both private and institutional shareholders to its Annual General Meeting and to discuss any topic shareholders may wish to raise.
co. uk provides additional information for shareholders and the general public.
All interim, preliminary and final results together with other press releases are published on the website.
continued Internal Control The Board confirms that a continuing formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the Group has been in place for the financial year 2004 5 and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
This process is regularly reviewed by both the Group and subsidiary boards and complies with the Turnbull guidance.
This approach ensures that internal control and risk management measures are embedded into the operations of the business and any areas requiring improvement are addressed.
The Directors are responsible for and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the period covered by the annual report and accounts.
The system is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
The key features of the control system are as follows: i monthly visits by Executive Directors to key operating locations to attend local board or management meetings: ii regular Executive Committee meetings of the Groups most senior managers and Executive Directors: iii formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units with procedures for reporting compliance therewith, for identifying weaknesses and for taking corrective action: iv comprehensive annual budgets, requiring Board and business sector approval, reviewed on a regular basis, with performance measured against budgets and explanations sought for significant variances: v a formal clearly defined framework for control and approval of capital expenditure and investment programmes, with cash authorisation limits and post investment appraisals along with contract authorisation levels: vi identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to each area of business assessed on a continuing basis at both operating board and Group Board level: vii appointment of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to meet their responsibilities: viii an internal Management Systems department which undertakes periodic examination of written business and operational procedures and identifies non compliances: and ix an Audit Committee comprising Non-executive Directors, the responsibilities of which are set out on page 22.
The Group publishes separate annual reports on Health & Safety and on Environmental Performance.
The independent Environmental Advisory Board also publishes its own annual report.
Further details about these reports can be found on pages 14 and 15 and copies are also available on the Groups website www.
annual report 2005 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors report on pages 61 and 62, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the year, and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains or losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005, the Directors have: i used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied: ii made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: iii ensured that all applicable accounting standards have been followed: and iv prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The uncertainty regarding legal requirements in relation to the website is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many countries and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and distribution of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
So far as the Directors are aware, as at 2 June 2005, there was no relevant audit information in connection with preparing their report of which the auditors were unaware.
The auditors report on the financial statements set out on pages 61 and 62 confirms that the scope of their report covers the provisions of the Combined Code that are specified for their review by the Financial Services Authority.
