6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 24 Directors report Nomination Committee report Health, safety and welfare The members of the Nomination Committee as at December 31, 2005 The Directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare were Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman, Mr Ronald Nordmann, The Hon of the Groups employees at work.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy James Grant and Dr Barry Price.
A majority of the Committee to manage its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or has been determined by Shires Board to be Independent Nonunacceptable risk to employees and those who may be affected by Executive Directors for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Dr James the Groups business.
In addition, the Group takes its corporate Cavanaugh is the Chairman of the Company and in this capacity is not responsibilities seriously, and maintains an active corporate responsibility considered to be independent under the Combined Code.
committee as well as a global environmental health and safety team devoted to promoting employee safety at and outside of work.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
Payment of creditors The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee require it, before It is the Groups policy to agree payment terms with its suppliers, any appointment is made, to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge making sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and to abide by them.
and experience on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, to identify As at December 31 the trade creditors days outstanding were: the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee utilises the services of professional search agencies specializing in the 2005 2004 recruitment of high calibre candidates.
The Committee is required to Number Number consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, on merit and against objective criteria.
It is also required to ensure that candidates Group 30 18 have sufficient time to devote to the position.
The Committee also monitors succession planning to the Board and oversees succession Financial instruments planning for senior management.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments can be found in the Financial Review on pages 4 to 19.
During 2005, the Committee made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Mr Patrick Langlois and the re-appointment Annual General Meeting of Mr Nordmann.
The Notice convening the AGM to be held on June 21, 2006 can be found in a separate notice accompanying the Annual Report.
New Non-Executive Directors receive a customised induction process taking account of their particular experience and backgrounds.
This Auditors process includes meetings with senior management.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the Annual General Meeting The Committee met three times during 2005.
All members were present in accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Audit at the meetings.
Committee reviews both the level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
By order of the Board Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman of the Nomination Committee Tatjana May Company Secretary March 22, 2006 24 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
