6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 25 Corporate governance statements The Company is committed to high standards Independence of Directors of corporate governance The Board considers Dr Barry Price, Mr Ronald Nordmann, The Hon The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance James Grant, Mr Robin Buchanan, Mr David Kappler and Mr Patrick and supports the provisions and principles set out in The Combined Langlois to be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Reporting views each of these Non-Executive Directors to be independent of Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
management, independent in judgement and character and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with Statement of compliance with the Combined Code the exercise of their independent judgement.
Throughout the year ended December 31, 2005 the Company has, in the Directors opinion, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 The Board has taken into consideration that The Hon James Grant is a of the Combined Code.
partner of Stikeman Elliot, a Canadian law firm which, from time to time, provides legal advice to the Shire Group.
The Board considers Mr Grant The Board to be independent notwithstanding his position as he is not involved in The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive and six Nonthe provision of legal advice to the Shire Group and is not engaged in Executive Directors and meets at least six times a year.
The Nonmarketing the services of Stikeman Elliott to the Shire Group.
Stikeman Executive Directors bring judgement which is independent of Elliott is one of a range of legal and other professional advisors engaged management to Board deliberations.
The Executive Directors by the Shire Group from time to time.
Accordingly, the Board does not have responsibility for day-to-day business operations.
consider the relationship between the Shire Group and Stikeman Elliott to be material and the fact that Mr Grant is a partner at that firm does The Board has overall responsibility for managing the Company and not, in the Boards assessment, affect his independence.
Mr Grant was its strategic direction and seeks to provide effective leadership and the a Board member of BioChem Pharma Inc. prior to its merger with Shire control required for a listed company.
The Board discharges those in 2001.
Mr Grant has an extensive knowledge of Shires business and responsibilities through regularly scheduled meetings.
The Board has he brings valued expertise to the Board.
formally reserved specific matters to itself for determination which include strategic issues, budgeting, changes in share capital, approval The Board, when making its determination on the independence of of the Companys financial statements and entry into material contracts.
Dr Price, gave particular consideration to the fact that Dr Price has been Matters not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to the a serving member of the Board for ten years, that the Combined Code Executive Committee and to various other Board committees whose suggests that length of service of nine years or more is relevant to a functions are described below.
determination of independence and that re-appointment should be subject to rigorous review.
The Board was also mindful of the need to The Board reviews the Companys internal controls and risk ensure progressive refreshening of the Board.
In this regard the Board management policies and approves its Code of Ethics.
The Board took into account that there have been substantial changes to the approves major investment and contractual decisions which exceed Board membership in recent years, including the appointments of Mr defined thresholds.
It also monitors and evaluates the performance of Buchanan and Mr Emmens in 2003, Mr Kappler in 2004 and Mr the Shire Group as a whole, through engaging with the Chief Executive Langlois in 2005.
Having deliberated carefully on the issue, the Board Officer, Chief Financial Officer and members of the Executive has no hesitation in asking Dr Price to remain on the Board.
Dr Prices Committee, as appropriate.
commitment to the Company is undiminished and his performance continues to be effective.
In accordance with the Combined Code, The Board members receive detailed information from Executive Dr Prices re-appointment to the Board is for a one year term.
His reDirectors, the Company Secretary, members of the Executive appointment will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2006 Annual Committee and other senior managers to enable them to discharge General Meeting.
their responsibilities efficiently and effectively.
All Directors have access to the advice and guidance of the Company Secretary and are Throughout 2005 and up to the date of publication of this report, at least encouraged to seek independent advice at the Companys expense, half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised Non-Executive where they feel it is appropriate.
The Board is of the opinion that each Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
of its members has the knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the functions required of a Director of a listed company.
Board and Committee changes Mr Patrick Langlois joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and a Biographical details of the members of the Board are shown on pages member of the Audit Committee on November 11, 2005.
Annual report and accounts for the 25 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 26 Corporate governance statements Board meetings Supply of information During 2005, there were 13 Board meetings of which seven were faceThe Executive Directors and the Company Secretary are responsible to-face meetings and six held by telephone.
Board meetings are well for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board members in attended.
The record of attendance by Directors at Board meetings is advance of any scheduled Board meeting.
Before decisions are made, set out below: consideration is given to the adequacy of information available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions are deferred if further information is Number of required.
The Company Secretary, Ms Tatjana May, is also secretary to meetings Out of Attendance all of the Board committees.
Directors attended possible % James Cavanaugh Appointment and re-election of Directors Chairman 13 13 100 The Board has authority to appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed must retire and submit himself for election at the Matthew Emmens next Annual General Meeting.
Chief Executive Officer 13 13 100 Angus Russell Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two Chief Financial Officer 13 13 100 years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one Barry Price year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Senior Non-Executive Director 12 13 92 Governance, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
ReThe Hon James Grant appointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their Non-Executive Director 12 13 92 term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
Ronald Nordmann At every Annual General Meeting a minimum of one-third of the Non-Executive Director 13 13 100 Directors must retire from office and may offer themselves for reRobin Buchanan election by shareholders.
Accordingly, no Director should serve for Non-Executive Director 13 13 100 more than three years without being subject to re-election.
David Kappler All of the current Directors of Shire plc were appointed by the Board as Non-Executive Director 13 13 100 a result of the scheme of arrangement implemented on November 25, Patrick Langlois 2005, whereby Shire plc was established as the new UK listed holding Non-Executive Director company for the Shire Group in place of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group appointed November 11, 2005 1 1 100 plc Scheme.
As a result of the implementation of the Scheme, all of the Directors of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc became Directors of Shire plc but were appointed by the Board rather than shareholders.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met during the year Accordingly, at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2006, all of without the Executive Directors being present.
the Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Further information concerning all the Directors standing for re-election The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held separately.
at the Annual General Meeting, including their biographies, will be The Chairman, Dr James Cavanaugh, is responsible for the conduct included in the Notice of Meeting to Shareholders.
of the Board and ensures that Board discussions are conducted in such a way that all views are taken into account, so that no individual The terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors and Director or small group of Directors dominates proceedings.
The Chief the service contracts of the Executive Directors will be made available Executive Officer has the overall responsibility for running the business for inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006. on a day-to-day basis and chairs the Executive Committee.
Board performance evaluation The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive The Company conducted evaluations of the performance of the Board, Officer are clearly defined, separate and have been approved by the its committees and its Directors in 2005.
undertaken by way of questionnaires prepared by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The reviews covered a wide range of Senior Non-Executive Director matters including adequacy of the composition of the Board and its Dr Barry Price is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Dr Committees, performance of Directors and the adequacy of information Price is the Companys longest-serving Director and as such he has provided.
Responses were aggregated on a non-attributed basis significant knowledge of Shire and its business.
Dr Prices in-depth and circulated to each Board and Committee member.
The responses knowledge of Shire and the pharmaceutical industry generally is then formed the basis of a discussion between the relevant members acknowledged and utilised by the Board.
Dr Price chairs meetings held of the Board or Committee with, respectively, the Chairman and the by the Non-Executive Directors during the year in the absence of the Committee Chairman.
A number of minor improvements to operating Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Dr Price is available, as required, procedures were agreed.
for consultation with major shareholders on any matter of concern.
26 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 27 Corporate governance statements Committees of the Board 4 Executive Committee The Board has established the Audit Committee, the Remuneration The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Executive Committee.
to the Executive Committee, which operates within clear and formal Each committee has its own written terms of reference which have parameters.
The Executive Committee meets at least 11 times per year.
been approved by the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit, In 2005 it met on 12 occasions.
The Chief Executive is the Chairman of Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available on the the Executive Committee, which on December 31, 2005 consisted of Companys website.
Details of each committee are as follows: 11 Executive Vice Presidents including the two Executive Directors.
The Executive Committee reports to and seeks guidance from the 1 Audit Committee Board on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee has been established for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and financial reporting processes of the The Members of the Executive Committee as at December 31, 2005 Company, the audit of its financial statements and the Companys were Matthew Emmens Chief Executive Officer, Angus Russell systems of internal controls.
It meets at least four times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Global Finance, members of the Audit Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Tatjana May General Counsel, Executive Vice President of Global Legal Directors.
For further information about the Audit Committee, its Affairs and Company Secretary, Anita Graham Executive Vice membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2005, President Global Human Resources, Eliseo Salinas Executive Vice please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 31 to 32.
President of Global R&D, Greg Flexter Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing, North America, Joseph Rus Executive Vice 2 Remuneration Committee President of Sales and Marketing, International, Barbara Deptula The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board Executive Vice President of Business Development, John Lee the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior Executive Vice President of Supply Chain and Quality, Mike Cola executives and the fixing of the terms of employment of the Executive Executive Vice President of Global Business Units and David Directors.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is Pendergast Executive Vice President of Human Genetic Therapies.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The The Executive Committee normally meets once a month to deliberate remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee, other than on major business issues.
It also considers those matters that are of a the Executive Directors, is determined by the Chief Executive Officer size and significance as to require referral to the Board before such following discussion with the Remuneration Committee.
The members matters are referred to the Board for final consideration and decision.
of the Remuneration Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Directors remuneration The Companys remuneration policy is described in the Directors The Remuneration Committee engages external consultants to advise Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 44.
The report details the level on aspects of remuneration, as it considers necessary.
of remuneration for Directors and the basis upon which executive remuneration is determined.
The Remuneration Committee met on seven occasions in 2005.
Dr Barry Price chaired the Remuneration Committee throughout the year Relations with shareholders and Mr Robin Buchanan and Mr Ronald Nordmann were members of The Company is committed to maintaining constructive relationships this committee throughout 2005.
All members attended all meetings.
For further information about the Remuneration Committee, its The Company announces its financial results quarterly.
The Chief membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2005, Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give presentations on please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 44. the results each quarter by teleconference for institutional investors, analysts and the media.
The full-year results under US GAAP are 3 Nomination Committee included in the Companys Annual Review, along with a summary The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and financial statement of the Companys results under International nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
Full IFRS results are included in The Committee also ensures adequate succession planning for the the Companys Annual Report.
As the Company has securities listed on Board and senior management.
This Committee meets as required and NASDAQ in the US, the Company also files quarterly reports on Form in 2005 was chaired by Dr James Cavanaugh.
Mr Ronald Nordmann, 10-Q and an annual report on Form 10-K with the US Securities and The Hon James Grant and Dr Barry Price also served on this Committee Exchange Commission SEC.
All members participated in all discussions of this Committee in 2005.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, supported by other senior executives, also arrange individual and group meetings The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search with major shareholders throughout the year to discuss the Companys consultants to assist it in the identification and nomination of new strategy and performance and to understand the views of major Board candidates.
shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are For further information about the Nomination Committee, its available also to meet with major shareholders.
membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 please refer to the Nomination Committee report on page 24.
The Companys website at www.
com provides information about the Company and its business and is regularly updated.
The Companys Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
Annual report and accounts for the 27 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 28 Corporate governance statements The Company holds its Annual General Meeting in London.
At the Political Organization is wide.
It can extend to bodies which the annual meeting, a business presentation is made to shareholders Company might wish to support including those concerned with policy and shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the review and law reform.
The Company made no donations to either EU Directors.
The Directors also make themselves available informally or non-EU Political Organizations during 2005. after the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Annual General Meeting 2006 Balanced and timely assessment of positions and prospects The 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, June 21, The Company strives to give timely assessments of matters that impact 2006.
The business to be transacted at the meeting will include: on its business and financial position and to present scientific and other information in a balanced way.
receiving the Companys accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005, together with the Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Responsibility CR the Auditors Report on those accounts and the auditable part of the The Company recognises the impact that its business may have on Remuneration Report: people and the environment as well as the wider implications of its operations on the general community.
The Company therefore attaches approving the 2005 Directors Remuneration Report: great importance to social and environmental issues and to ethical business practices.
Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is electing each of Dr James Cavanaugh, Mr Matthew Emmens, taken at the highest levels.
The Board reviews the Companys general Mr Angus Russell, Mr Robin Buchanan, The Hon James Grant, approach to corporate responsibility.
The Board also reviews the Mr David Kappler, Mr Ronald Nordmann, Dr Barry Price and specific business risks related to Social, Environmental and Ethical Mr Patrick Langlois to the Board: SEE matters annually.
reappointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and authorizing the The Board receives advice and information from the Corporate Audit Committee to approve their remuneration: Responsibility Committee CR Committee to make this assessment.
The CR Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, giving the Directors the authority to disapply pre-emption rights meets three times a year and is responsible for setting the policies when allotting new shares in certain circumstances: and procedures that manage SEE issues, risks and opportunities.
SEE risks are managed within the overall framework of risk management, giving authority to the Company to make limited donations to EU explained below under the heading internal control.
political organizations and to incur limited EU political expenditure: and This year the Company has again decided to produce a stand-alone report on Corporate Responsibility.
This is available on request or from authorizing the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% the Shire website.
of the Companys issued share capital.
Code of Ethics Financial disclosure, internal control and the role of the auditors The Company is committed to the maintenance of high ethical The Board has, through the Audit Committee, established formal and standards in its dealings with all persons with whom it is involved.
The transparent arrangements for financial reporting, internal control and Companys Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and employees and external auditing.
The Audit Committees terms of reference extend to is available for review on the Companys website.
the Companys risk management activities as a whole and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
Dividends The Company commenced the payment of a semi-annual dividend in All employees can raise any concerns in any of these areas with the 2004 with the aim to grow the total dividend paid for each year Chairman of the Audit Committee in the strictest confidence.
As a result of the adoption of this dividend policy, the Company operates a Global Compliance Helpline, which provides a Company intends to declare interim dividends twice per year, with the confidential means through which all employees are able to report first payment made around September October, following concerns relating to financial disclosure, internal control and other determination of first-half results, and the second payment around compliance issues in good faith without fear of discrimination or reprisal.
April May of each year, following finalization of the full-year results.
The Company does not intend to put a resolution to shareholders to 1 Financial reporting approve a final dividend at the Annual General Meeting which is held in The Board has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of accounts June each year because if the Company was to delay payment of the and for the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
The second-half final dividend, by seeking shareholder approval for the Board strives to present a balanced and understandable assessment payment at the Annual General Meeting, the Company would not be of the Companys position and its prospects and endeavours to present able to maintain an even payment cycle at approximately six month scientific and other information in a balanced way.
The Company intervals unless first-half dividend payments were also delayed.
This is publishes quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders can beneficial for the Company, both from a cash flow planning and from an monitor the Companys financial position regularly.
accounting perspective and is beneficial for shareholders as dividends are paid promptly and a smooth payment cycle is maintained.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has the responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal financial controls Donations to Political Organizations and EU Political Expenditure and the audit process.
The Audit Committee has independent access At the Annual General Meeting in June 2005, shareholders authorised to the auditor throughout the year in addition to presentations from the the Company to make donations to EU Political Organizations and to auditor on a quarterly basis.
Any significant findings or identified risks incur EU Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political are closely examined and are reported to the Board with Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 25,000, recommendations for action.
equivalent to $45,525 at average 2005 exchange rates respectively, each year.
Although the Company does not make and does not intend to make payments or donations to EU political parties, within the normal meaning of that expression, the definition in the legislation of EU 28 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 29 Corporate governance statements The Company has established a Disclosure Committee, which Officer, respectively, but each have direct access to the Chairman, the is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its membership includes Chairman of the Audit Committee and the other members of the Audit senior managers from the legal, finance and risk departments.
They also both attend and present regularly at Audit responsibilities include ensuring that information disclosed to investors Committee meetings.
in the Companys periodic financial reports is recorded, summarized and reported accurately.
The Companys risk management, compliance and internal audit strategy is based on a risk and control framework containing the Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the United following key elements: States, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are required to complete formal certifications, which confirm, inter alia, that: an effective control environment: the annual report on Form 10-K in the United States does not contain an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: any material misstatements or omissions: effective internal control procedures: and financial information reported in Form 10-K fairly presents the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the effective internal audit.
Company: Effective control environment the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are The key elements of the Companys control environment are as follows: responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the United States: i the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the internal control system and has delegated certain responsibilities to the Executive the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have Committee and or the Audit Committee: evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and procedures: ii a framework of Corporate Values and a Code of Ethics which sets appropriate standards of ethical behaviour are operational throughout the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have the Group: indicated in Form 10-K whether there were any significant changes in the Companys internal control over financial reporting: and iii the internal structure of the organization is well documented with clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different matters: based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses iv a range of corporate policies and procedures have been in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting implemented: which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the Companys ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information v the internal audit department, overseen by the Vice President Internal included in Form 10-K have been disclosed to the Companys Audit, carries out regular reviews of control activities and reports auditors.
findings to management: and The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have vi the Audit Committee considers the major findings of any internal completed these certifications and they have been filed with the SEC in investigations and managements response to them.
The Audit the United States as part of the Companys annual report in the United Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of the States on Form 10-K. Companys control environment.
2 Risk management, compliance and internal control Effective identification, assessment and management of risks The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal The management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the control, recognises its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system Company creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, the of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Companys assets and to regularly review its effectiveness.
Whilst the managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control, operation throughout the period under review and up to the date of the there are limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly signing of the accounts.
All risks are recorded on a corporate risk even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not schedule which allocates specific responsibility to members of the absolute assurance.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than Executive Committee.
This schedule has been reviewed by the Audit eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Committee during 2005. provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Effective internal control procedures The Company has a system of control procedures.
Compliance with The Board has reviewed both the key risks faced by the Company and these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems in 2005. regular reports on financial performance.
Any significant issues arising Outside of its review, the Board delegates responsibility to the Audit are reported to the Audit Committee.
During 2005, the Company has Committee for more regular review of both key risks and internal made a significant investment in its internal financial control procedures controls and for monitoring the activities of the internal audit function.
as part of its compliance with s404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements.
The Audit Committee has kept these areas under review in 2005.
This has included the review, documentation and testing of all key internal financial controls.
The conclusion of this exercise is that the The Company has risk management, compliance and internal audit Company had an effective system of internal controls over its US GAAP functions.
A Chief Compliance Officer was appointed in 2005 and the Form 10-K financial reporting at December 31, 2005. role of Chief Risk Officer combined with it.
The role of Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the role of Director of Internal Audit, which are separate, report to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Annual report and accounts for the 29 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 30 Corporate governance statements Effective internal audit Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The internal review of the Companys control procedures and The Companys management is responsible for establishing and compliance with them is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit in Rule 13 a to 15 f or 15 d -15 f promulgated under the US Securities programme, considers the findings of internal audit reviews and Exchange Act of 1934. managements response to them, and ensures efficient co-ordination between the Companys internal and external auditors.
The Companys Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial internal audit function, comprizing a mixture of internal and out-sourced reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Projections of any resource, was operational throughout 2005.
The Audit Committee, evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that which is responsible for monitoring the activity of the internal audit controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, function, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit during 2005. or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
3 External auditing The Audit Committee has the primary responsibility for determining The Companys management assessed the effectiveness of the the remuneration of and overseeing the work of any accounting firm Companys internal control over financial reporting for the purposes of engaged to conduct the external audit.
The Audit Committee assesses the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K as at December 31, 2005, at least annually the objectivity and independence of the external which was filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on auditor taking into account relevant regulatory requirements.
In making this assessment, the Companys management Committee reviews and approves the annual external audit plan each used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations year and ensures it is consistent with the scope of the auditors of the Treadway Commission COSO in Internal Control-Integrated engagement.
The Audit Committee also considers whether the skills Framework.
and experience of the external audit firm make it a suitable supplier of non-audit services.
Based on its assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2005, the Companys internal control over financial reporting is The Audit Committee has set and applies a formal policy in relation to effective based on those criteria.
the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor specifying the types of non-audit work: Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on managements assessment of the i for which the external auditors are excluded: Companys internal control over its Form 10-K US GAAP financial reporting.
The Auditors Report appears on page F-2 and F-3 of the ii for which the external auditors can be engaged without referral to Companys Annual Report in the United States on Form 10-K. the Committee: and Changes in internal control over financial reporting iii for which a case-by-case decision is necessary, with a view to In 2004, the Company commenced the implementation of a new preserving the auditors independence and objectivity.
The Audit integrated information system covering financial processes, production, Committee also considers the fees paid to the external auditors and logistics and quality management.
Further implementations were made whether the fee levels for non-audit services, individually and in in the fourth quarter of 2005 and more are planned for 2006 and 2007. aggregate, relative to the audit fee are appropriate to enable a proper The implementations have involved changes in the Companys audit to be conducted.
information systems that included aspects of the Companys internal control over financial reporting and, therefore changes to the Going concern basis Companys internal control over financial reporting.
The Company After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the has reviewed each system as it is being implemented and the controls time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable affected by the implementation of the new systems and made expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in appropriate changes to affected internal controls as it implemented the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the new systems.
Management believes that the controls as modified are Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the appropriate and functioning effectively.
During the period covered by this Annual Report, the Company Disclosure controls and procedures concluded the acquisition of TKT.
Significant material weaknesses The Company, under the supervision and with the participation of in TKTs internal control over financial reporting were identified the Companys management, including the Chief Executive Officer with respect to its sales and marketing subsidiary, TKT Europe A.
B. and the Chief Financial Officer, has performed an evaluation of the formerly TKT Europe-5S A.
B., or TKT Europe, as at December 31, effectiveness of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures, 2004, as described in TKTs Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2004. in relation to its Form 10-K US GAAP reporting, as at December 31, The Company undertook a review of these material weaknesses 2005.
The Companys management necessarily applied its judgement following completion of the Companys acquisition of TKT and has in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, undertaken appropriate remediation activities.
Management believes which by their nature can provide only reasonable assurance regarding that the controls as modified are appropriate and functioning effectively.
Based on this evaluation, the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable level of assurance for gathering, analysing and disclosing the information that the Company is required to disclose in the reports it files under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
30 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
