6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 31 Audit Committee report Membership oversee the Companys anti-fraud programmes and controls The members of the Committee as at December 31, 2005 were and to oversee the investigation and remediation of any alleged David Kappler Chairman, Barry Price, Ronald Nordmann and Patrick or suspected fraud: Langlois.
Mr Kappler, Dr Price and Mr Nordmann served as members of the Committee throughout 2005 and Mr Langlois became a member of monitor and review the internal operational audit programme, the Committee upon his appointment to the Board in November 2005. consider the findings of internal operational audit reviews and Each of the members of the Committee has been determined by Shires managements response to them: and Board to be an Independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes of The UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined review compliance with treasury policy.
Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ rules regarding the independence of members of the Audit Committee.
The Committee reports to the Board on any matter on which it considers that action is required and makes recommendations for steps to be Mr David Kappler chairs the Committee.
The Board is satisfied that taken.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee give it authority to Mr Kappler, in his capacity as Chairman of the Committee, has recent investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference and to be and relevant financial experience.
The Board has determined that responsible for the resolution of disagreements between management Mr Kappler is the Committees financial expert for the purposes of the and the auditor regarding the Companys financial reporting.
Mr Kappler was a Director of Camelot Group Committee is also authorised to seek any information it requires from plc from 1996 to 2002 and he serves as a Non-Executive Director at any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties and to call HMV Group plc and Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
Additionally, any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee.
he is Non-Executive Chairman at Premier Foods plc.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
The Committee met on six occasions in 2005.
Each meeting was attended by all members of the Committee.
At the invitation of the The members of the Committee are chosen from amongst the NonChairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and Executive Directors of the Company who are independent for the the Group Financial Controller attended all of the Committees meetings purposes of the Combined Code and the NASDAQ rules and are selected in 2005.
In addition, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Risk on the basis of their knowledge and experience of financial matters and Officer and Head of Internal Audit attended each of the four quarterly financial reporting.
Committee members hold office for an initial period of meetings at which risk management systems and internal audit two years, subject to continuing as a Director of the Company.
they may hold office for such duration as determined by the Board.
Details of the fees paid to members of the Committee are set out in the In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Committee held a Directors Remuneration Report on page 39. number of private meetings with the lead partner from the Companys external auditors and the Companys Chief Internal Auditor during the Role of Committee course of the year without any executive member of the Board in The Terms of Reference of the Committee have been approved by the attendance.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free and Board and are available for review on Shires website.
The key functions open discussions between the Audit Committee members and the of the Committee under its Terms of Reference are to: Chief Internal Auditor and the external lead audit partner separately from the main sessions of the Audit Committee which were attended monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other corporate announcement relating Approval of audit and non-audit services provided by auditor to the Companys financial performance: The Committee has adopted formal policies and procedures in relation to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external auditor, ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the presentation which were most recently revised in February 2006.
The principal of a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys purpose of these policies and procedures is to ensure that the financial position: independence of the external auditor is not impaired.
have the primary responsibility for making a recommendation to The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and accordingly the Committees policy be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the Company by in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and the external auditor, including: remuneration of the external auditor and to assess, at least annually, the objectivity and independence of the external auditor: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Company: review and discuss issues and recommendations arising from the external audit, and any matters the external auditor may wish to design and implementation of financial information systems: discuss: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution-inset and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of non-audit kind reports: and services by the external auditor with a view to preserving the external auditors independence and objectivity: actuarial or internal audit outsourcing services.
establish procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of Other types of audit and non-audit services may be performed by the complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, internal external auditor if the work is either specifically pre-approved by the accounting controls or auditing matters: Committee or the work falls within the Committees schedule of preapproved services.
The Committees pre-approval policy covers three review at least annually the effectiveness of the Companys internal categories of work audit services, audit-related services and tax control system in the overall context of the Companys risk services.
If the proposed services to be provided by the external auditor management system: fall within a category of pre-approved services, they may be provided by the auditor without being specifically approved by the Committee, Annual report and accounts for the 31 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 32 Audit Committee report provided that management does not need to exercise any discretion 2 Internal financial control and risk management systems in determining whether a proposed service falls within one of the the Companys risk management strategy, its internal audit strategy, pre-approved categories.
In all cases, the Committee is notified of its plan and progress in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanesany pre-approved service that is provided by the auditor.
Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control during the year: Any service proposed to be provided by the auditor which is not a pre-approved service must be approved in advance by the Committee, revisions to the policy for the management of treasury were reviewed which will consider whether the independence, skills and experience and recommended for approval to the Board: of the auditor make it a suitable supplier of the proposed service.
quarterly reports on treasury investments and compliance with Committee activities treasury policy were discussed: During 2005, the business discussed by the Committee included the following: approval of the insurance renewal programme for 2005 6: 1 Financial statements monitoring of the Groups whistle-blowing and fraud policies: and the financial disclosures contained in the Companys quarterly results announcements: the Companys internal controls over financial reporting.
various accounting matters, including the application of the 3 External auditor Companys critical accounting policies and new accounting The Committee reviewed the performance of the external auditor standards in the context of the financial disclosures, including the following the completion of the 2004 audit process, which resulted in acquisition of TKT, the impact of the Health Canada suspension the Committee resolving to recommend that the Company submit a of ADDERALL XR, the impact of fair value accounting for shareresolution to the 2005 Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte based compensation and new Inventory Management Agreements & Touche LLP as the Companys external auditor.
At forthcoming with key US wholesalers: meetings in 2006, the Committee will conduct a formal review of the performance of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit a review of the Companys preparations for the adoption in 2005 process in connection with the 2005 financial year audit.
of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, including the approval of the Companys accounting policies under IFRS.
The Throughout the year, the Committee has kept the objectivity and Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Companys publication independence of the external auditor under review and has obtained in September 2005 of its half yearly financial statements and full-year reports from the Companys external auditor describing all relationships comparative financial statements for 2004, as prepared in between the auditor and the Company.
The Committee has remained accordance with IFRS: and satisfied that neither the level of non-audit services nor the nature of the work performed by the external auditors has in any way impaired their quarterly reports from the external auditors were received by the objectivity and independence.
Details of the fees paid to the external Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the following auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
key areas: auditor responsibility and independence: significant accounting estimates and judgements made by management: David Kappler audit adjustments proposed and whether they were corrected Chairman of the Audit Committee by management: and significant accounting policies and unusual transactions.
32 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
