Corporate Associated British Foods plc governance Corporate governance The board remains committed to maintaining company of Associated British Foods plc, for the group and ensure that no individual high standards of corporate governance Wittington Investments Limited.
Galen Weston or group dominates the boards decision throughout the group.
The Listing Rules receives no fees for performing his role as a making.
Details of the full board are set of the Financial Services Authority require non-executive director and Associated British out on pages 30 and 31.
UK listed companies to report on the manner Foods plc does not reimburse him for any in which they apply the Combined Code on expenses incurred by him in that role.
George Weston became Chief Executive on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
In accordance with the Combined Code 1 April 2005 when Peter Jackson retired.
This report is published pursuant to the he is subject to annual re-election.
Combined Code in effect at the companys The roles of the Chairman and the Chief year end.
The principles of this Combined Until the appointment of Tim Clarke as Executive are separately held and are so Code deal with directors, directors an independent non-executive director defined as to ensure a clear division of remuneration, relations and accountability on 3 November 2004, the board did responsibilities.
Lord MacGregor is the to shareholders and the audit of the company.
not have a majority of independent recognised senior independent director.
The board is satisfied as to his independence, Statement of compliance notwithstanding his length of service, given the The board recognises that the Combined The board of directors manner in which he discharges his duties with Code is seen as best practice and this report, The business and the management of the the company, but reviews this annually in the together with the remuneration report on company are the responsibility of the whole light of the provisions of the Combined Code.
pages 40 to 46, gives detail of how the board.
The board met formally 11 times principles of the Combined Code have been during the year.
The individual attendance The Articles of Association require that one applied within the company.
by directors is detailed on page 35. third of the directors retire by rotation at the 34 There is a formal schedule of matters annual general meeting in each year subject The board considers that the company reserved to the board for decision which to the requirement that each director seeks has fully complied with the provisions set include the approval of annual and interim re-election every three years.
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code results, the companys strategic plans, during the year.
However, there are three annual budget, larger capital expenditure Furthermore, in accordance with the areas where the Combined Code has not and investment proposals and the overall Combined Code, each non-executive director been complied with.
system of internal control and risk who has served for more than nine years management.
Other specific responsibilities is required to stand for annual re-election.
The Combined Code provides that the are delegated to the board committees, Accordingly, in addition to those otherwise Nomination and Remuneration committees notably the Audit, Remuneration and seeking re-election, Galen Weston and should only comprise independent Nomination committees, which operate Lord MacGregor will be subject to re-election non-executive directors.
The board of within clearly defined terms of reference, at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Associated British Foods plc does not accept reporting regularly to the board.
Information this recommendation as it considers that on these committees is given below.
On joining the board, directors are given Martin Adamson, as Chairman, should background documents describing the participate in any decisions concerning The board comprises the non-executive company and its activities.
New directors nomination and remuneration due to his Chairman Martin Adamson, the Chief are provided with an appropriate induction experience and the fact that, encompassed Executive George Weston, the Finance programme and site visits are arranged in his role is the supervision of the board.
Director, John Bason and four non-executive to major business units.
Ongoing training No director has any involvement in the directors who are independent of is provided as necessary.
determination of his own remuneration.
management and have no relationships which would materially interfere with the Board and committee papers are circulated The Combined Code provides that the terms exercise of their independent judgement.
to members in advance of the meetings.
and conditions of appointment of non-executive In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman directors should be made available for The board also includes Galen Weston, and Chief Executive maintain regular contact inspection.
For Galen Weston the board has a non-executive, who is not regarded as with all directors.
The Chairman also holds not considered it appropriate to enter independent.
The board considers that the informal meetings with non-executive directors, into a formal letter of appointment.
This is due non-executive directors provide a solid without any of the executives being present, to his relationship with the ultimate holding foundation for good corporate governance to discuss any issues affecting the group.
Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2005 governance Senior executives below board level are invited, independent professional advice on any Tim Clarke was appointed by the board as a when appropriate, to attend board meetings matter at the companys expense.
non-executive director on 3 November 2004 and make presentations on the results and and was subsequently elected on 10 December strategies of their business units.
Directors have direct access to the advice 2004.
He was appointed to each of the and services of the Company Secretary Nomination, Audit and Remuneration The board has adopted a procedure whereby who is responsible for ensuring that board committees in January 2005. directors may, in pursuit of their duties, take procedures are followed.
Board committees Attendance during the year Audit Nomination Remuneration Full board meeting committee committee committee Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Directors Martin Adamson 3333 11 11 1 Peter Jackson 66 John Bason 11 11 George Weston 11 11 Lord MacGregor 333233 11 9 Mike Alexander 323233 11 10 Jeff Harris 333232 11 10 35 Galen Weston 11 10 Tim Clarke 22222299 1 Retired on 31 March 2005.
Nomination committee The terms of reference of the Nomination Relations with shareholders Current members: Martin Adamson, committee, the Audit committee and the The manner in which the company Mike Alexander, Jeff Harris, Lord MacGregor, Remuneration committee are available communicates with its shareholders is Tim Clarke.
upon request and from www.
co. uk described in the corporate citizenship section on pages 26 to 29 of the annual report.
Further details of the Nomination committee Performance evaluation can be found on pages 37 and 38.
In the final financial quarter the senior The annual general meeting takes place independent director led the annual process in London and formal notification is sent to Audit committee which enabled the board to evaluate the shareholders approximately one month in Current members: Mike Alexander, effectiveness of its performance.
The annual general meeting gives Jeff Harris, Lord MacGregor, Tim Clarke.
an individual discussion between the senior shareholders an opportunity to hear about Chairman: Jeff Harris.
independent director and each director based the general development of the business upon designated areas and topics.
The results and to ask questions of the Chairman and Further details of the Audit committee of this exercise were subsequently reviewed the board.
The practice has been for a short can be found on pages 38 and 39. by the board.
The performance of the film to be shown at the meeting explaining Chairman was also appraised at a meeting a particular area of the groups business.
Remuneration committee of the non-executive directors chaired by Current members: Martin Adamson, the senior independent director.
At the 2004 annual general meeting a Mike Alexander, Jeff Harris, Lord MacGregor, resolution was passed to facilitate electronic Tim Clarke.
The process in 2005 confirmed that all communications between the company and directors continued to contribute effectively its shareholders and electronic voting at Details of the Remuneration committee and and with proper commitment, including general meetings of the company.
For the its policies are set out on pages 40 to 46. of time, to their roles.
2005 annual general meeting shareholders Corporate Associated British Foods plc governance Corporate governance continued will be able to lodge proxy votes electronically.
with its exposure to risk.
The system is counterparties, currency exposures and Full details can be found in the notes to designed to manage rather than eliminate approved instruments.
The balance of the notice of annual general meeting on the risk of assets being unprotected and the groups cash reserves is managed pages 82 and 83. to guard against their unauthorised use and by its treasury function in accordance the failure to achieve business objectives.
with guidelines referred to in the Finance Acountability and audit Internal controls can only provide reasonable Directors report.
The board is required by the Combined Code and not absolute assurance against material to present a balanced and understandable mis-statement or loss.
Clearly defined guidelines have been assessment of the companys position and established for capital expenditure and prospects.
In relation to this requirement The directors confirm that there is an investment decisions encompassing reference is made to the statement of ongoing process for identifying, evaluating budgets, appraisal and review procedures directors responsibilities for preparing the and managing the risks faced by the group, and levels of authority.
financial statements set out on page 46. which has been in place for the year under The independent auditors report on page 47 review and up to the date of approval of the Internal audit includes a statement by the auditors about annual report and accounts and that they The groups businesses employ internal their reporting responsibilities.
The board have regularly reviewed the system of auditors both employees and resources recognises that its responsibility to present internal controls utilising the review process provided by Ernst & Young where a balanced and understandable assessment set out below.
appropriate with skills and experience extends to interim and other price-sensitive relevant to the operation of each business, public reports, and reports to regulators, as well Standards with the exception of four businesses within as information required to be presented by law.
There are guidelines on the minimum Grocery, where independent peer review 36 group-wide requirements for health and audits are carried out.
All of the internal Going concern safety and environmental standards.
audit activities are co-ordinated centrally After making due enquiries, the directors There are also guidelines on the minimum by the groups Director of Financial Control, have a reasonable expectation that the level of internal control that each of the who is accountable to the Audit committee.
group has adequate resources to continue divisions should exercise over specified in operation for the foreseeable future.
Each business has developed All group businesses are required to comply For this reason they continue to adopt the and documented policies and procedures with the groups financial control framework going concern basis for preparing the to comply with the minimum control that sets out minimum control standards.
financial statements on pages 48 to 78. standards established, including procedures A key function of the groups internal audit for monitoring compliance and taking resources is to undertake audits to ensure Internal control corrective action.
The board of each business compliance with the financial control The board acknowledges its responsibilities is required to confirm annually that it has framework and make recommendations for for the groups system of internal control complied with these policies and procedures.
improvement in controls where appropriate.
to facilitate the management of risk, the Internal audit also conduct regular reviews to protection of shareholders investments and High level controls ensure that risk management procedures and the groups assets.
The directors recognise All operations prepare annual operating controls are adhered to.
The Audit committee that they are responsible for providing a plans and budgets which are updated receives regular reports on the results of return to shareholders, which is consistent regularly.
Performance against budget is internal audits work and monitors the status with the responsible assessment and monitored at operational level and centrally, of recommendations arising.
The Audit mitigation of risks.
with variances being reported promptly.
The committee reviews annually the adequacy cash position at group and operational level of the groups internal audit resources and Effective controls ensure that the group is monitored constantly and variances from the nature and scope of internal audit is not exposed to avoidable risk, that proper expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
activity in the overall context of the groups accounting records have been maintained risk management system set out below.
and that the financial information used A significant part of the groups cash The director of financial control meets with within the business and for publication reserves is managed by independent the chairman of the Audit committee as is reliable.
The dynamics of the group fund managers operating within detailed appropriate but at least annually, without the and the environment within which it guidelines specified by the group relating to, presence of executive management, and has operates are continually evolving together inter alia, permitted investments and direct access to the Chairman of the board.
Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2005 governance Risk management review Report of the Nomination committee knowledge and experience of the board, The detailed policies and internal control The committee comprises the Chairman and, if appropriate, makes recommendations procedures established at operational level of the board who also chairs the committee for change to the board.
In this respect, the are reviewed by group personnel together together with the independent non-executive committee has regard to the results of the with the internal audit activities.
Executive directors may be invited annual performance evaluation.
The committee business is responsible for regularly assessing to attend as appropriate.
keeps under review the leadership needs of the its risk management activities to ensure good organisation, both executive and non-executive, practice in all areas.
These assessments are The Nomination committee leads the with a view to ensuring the continued ability reviewed by group personnel twice a year.
process for board appointments making of the organisation to compete efficiently The Audit committee receives reports on recommendations to the board.
The committee makes internal financial control issues from recommendations regarding the membership management and from the external auditors The Chairman does not chair the of the Audit committee in consultation with and regularly reports to the board for the Nomination committee when it is dealing the Audit committee chairman.
purposes of the boards annual review.
with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship, in which case the committee Activities is chaired by a non-executive director elected The committee makes recommendations Paul Lister, Company Secretary by the remaining members.
The committee to the board on succession for executive met three times during 2005. directors, the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion Duties of their specified term of office, any matter The committee is responsible for identifying relating to the continuation in office of any 37 and nominating, for the approval of the board, director at any time and the appointment candidates to fill board vacancies as and when of any director to executive or other office.
Before an appointment is made, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, George Weston became Chief Executive knowledge and experience on the board and, on 1 April 2005.
The board appointed in the light of this evaluation, prepares a Mr Weston after full consideration of description of the role and capabilities potential candidates.
Spencer Stuart, the required for a particular appointment.
global executive search firm, conducted a thorough search and identified a number The time required from a non-executive of high quality external candidates who director is reviewed annually.
The annual were considered together with internal performance evaluation is used to assess candidates.
The Nomination committee and whether the non-executive director is board concluded that Mr Weston would be spending enough time to fulfil his duties.
As a senior member of the management team which has Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds developed the groups successful business are considered.
The committee uses strategy over recent years, he brings external advisors to facilitate searches for continuity and a deep understanding of potential candidates.
the companys businesses and culture.
The committee gives full consideration to External recruitment consultants were succession planning in the course of its work, similarly used to recruit Tim Clarke.
The taking into account the challenges and committee recommended his appointment opportunities facing the company and what to the board and he became a non-executive skills and expertise are therefore needed on the director on 3 November 2004. board and senior management in the future.
Terms of reference The committee reviews the structure, The terms of reference of the committee, size and composition including the skills, which set out the role and the authority Corporate Associated British Foods plc governance Corporate governance continued delegated to it by the board, are available for Name Date of appointment the role of internal and external auditing inspection at the companys registered office Jeff Harris May 2003, and appointed and risk management: and and can be viewed on the companys website.
chairman in September 2003 the regulatory framework for the groups The formal letters of appointment of Lord MacGregor December 1994 businesses.
non-executive directors are also available for Mike Alexander January 2002 inspection at the companys registered office.
Tim Clarke January 2005 Meetings The Audit committee meets at least three Report of the Audit committee Membership of the Audit committee times each year and has an agenda linked Summary of the role of the Audit committee is determined by the board on the to events in the groups financial calendar.
The Audit committee is appointed by the recommendation of the Nomination committee board from the non-executive directors of the in consultation with the Audit committee The Audit committee invites the Group company.
Its terms of reference are set by chairman from amongst the independent, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, the board and are modelled closely on the non-executive directors of the company.
Director of Financial Control and senior provisions of the Combined Code.
representatives of the external auditors to Appointments are for a period of three years attend all of its meetings in full, although The Audit committee is responsible for after which they are subject to annual review, it reserves the right to request any of these maintaining an appropriate relationship extendable by additional three-year periods so individuals to withdraw.
Other senior with the groups external auditors and for long as members continue to be independent.
management are invited to present such reviewing the companys internal audit The committee is comprised of a minimum reports as are required for the committee resources, internal financial controls and of three independent non-executive directors to discharge its duties.
The Audit committee at any time and currently comprises four aids the board in seeking to ensure that members.
Overview of the actions taken by the the financial and non-financial information Audit committee to discharge its duties supplied to shareholders presents a balanced The Audit committee structure requires the In order to fulfil its terms of reference, assessment of the companys position in inclusion of one financially qualified member the Audit committee receives and reviews view of the boards responsibilities.
as recognised by the Consultative Committee presentations and reports from the groups of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently the Audit senior management, consulting as necessary The committee reviews the objectivity and committee chairman fulfils this requirement.
independence of the external auditors and All Audit committee members are expected also considers the scope of their work and to be financially literate.
The committee reviewed the interim and fees paid for audit and non-audit services.
annual financial statements, together with The board expects Audit committee members the Stock Exchange announcements, The Audit committee chairman reports the to have an understanding of the following areas: having received information on: outcome of meetings to the board.
The Audit committee has unrestricted access to company the principles of, and developments in, the accounting principles, policies and documents and information, as well as to financial reporting including the applicable practices adopted in the groups accounts: employees of the company and the external accounting standards and statements of auditor.
Members of the committee may, recommended practice: changes proposed to those principles, in pursuit of their duties, take independent policies and practices: professional advice on any matter at the key aspects of the companys operations companys expense.
including corporate policies and the significant accounting issues: groups internal control environment: Composition of the Audit committee litigation and contingent liabilities affecting The members of the Audit committee who matters which may influence the the group: and held office during the year and at the date presentation of accounts and key figures: of this report are: potential tax contingencies and the groups the principles of, and developments in, compliance with statutory tax obligations.
company law, sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2005 governance The Audit committee is required to assist To fulfil its responsibility for oversight statistics on staff numbers, qualifications the board to fulfil its responsibilities relating of the external audit process, the Audit and experience and timeliness of reporting: to the adequacy and effectiveness of committee reviewed: and the control environment and the groups compliance with the Combined Code.
To fulfil the terms, areas of responsibility, associated the level and nature of non-audit activity these duties, the committee reviewed: duties and scope of the audit as set out in performed by internal audit.
the external auditors engagement letter for the external auditors management letters the forthcoming year: The groups whistleblowing policy and audit highlights memoranda: contains arrangements for the Company the external auditors overall work plan Secretary to receive, in confidence, internal audit reports on key audit areas and for the forthcoming year: complaints on accounting, risk issues, significant control environment deficiencies: internal controls, auditing issues and the external auditors fee proposal: related matters for reporting to the Audit reports on the systems of internal controls committee as appropriate.
and risk management: and the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: The Audit committee holds private meetings reports on frauds perpetrated against with the external auditors after each the group.
key accounting and audit judgements: committee meeting, and with the Director of Financial Control as appropriate but at The Audit committee is responsible for the the levels of errors identified during least annually, to review key issues within development, implementation and monitoring the audit: and their spheres of interest and responsibility.
39 of the groups policy on external audit.
The groups policy on external audit sets recommendations made by the The chairman of the Audit committee will out the categories of non-audit services which external auditors in their management be present at the annual general meeting the external auditors will, and will not, be letter and the adequacy of managements to answer questions on this report, matters allowed to provide to the group, subject response.
within the scope of the Audit committees to fide minimis levels.
responsibilities and any significant matters The Audit committee has recommended brought to the Audit committees attention To fulfil its responsibility regarding the to the board that the external auditors by the external auditor.
independence of the external auditors, are re-appointed.
the Audit committee reviewed: The full terms of reference of the Audit Internal audit function committee are available on the companys changes in external audit executives The Audit committee is required to assist the website: www.
co. uk in the audit plan for the current year: board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans a report from the external auditors describing of internal audit.
To fulfil these duties, the their arrangements to identify, report and committee reviewed: manage any conflicts of interest: and internal audits terms of reference, reporting the extent of non-audit services provided lines and access to the Audit committee by the external auditors.
and all members of the board: To assess the effectiveness of the external internal audits plans and its achievement auditors, the Audit committee reviewed: of the planned activity: the external auditors fulfilment of the the results of key audits and other agreed audit plan and variations from it: and significant findings, the adequacy of managements response and the reports highlighting the major issues that timeliness of resolution: arose during the course of the audit.
