qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 51 Report of the Audit Committee This report has been prepared by the Audit Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the guidance on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith.
The report gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
Terms of reference The Committee operates under Terms of Reference which can be found on the Companys website and which are available on application to the Company Secretary at the registered office.
They are reviewed annually by the Committee and changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
The main duties of the Committee set out in its Terms of Reference are: monitoring the integrity of the Companys Accounts including its Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Announcement: reviewing the consistency of accounting policies, including any changes: keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: considering annually whether there should be an internal audit function and making recommendations to the Board accordingly: considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external Auditors: and overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, including but not limited to approving their remuneration, assessing annually their independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the Auditors as a whole, including the provision of any non-audit services.
The Committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it considers it to be necessary.
Membership Throughout 2005, the Committee comprised the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr. D. A. Haxby was the Chairman and Mr. P. H. Blackburn and Mr. M. J. C. Borlenghi were members.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr. D. A. Haxby is a Chartered Accountant FCA and is considered by the Board to have significant recent and relevant financial experience.
He was a Partner in Arthur Andersen for 18 years 19771995 holding senior management positions in the UK Practice from 1985 to 1995.
Since then he has served as Audit Committee chairman of a number of UK listed companies.
The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on page 36.
The Board makes appointments to the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings The Committee is planned to meet four times a year.
In 2005 it met five times and all Members of the Committee attended each meeting.
The external Auditors and the Finance Director attended all four of the scheduled meetings and have direct access to the Committee Chairman.
The Chairman of the Board and the other Executive Directors attend the meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The external Auditors had a confidential discussion with Members of the Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors being present on two occasions in 2005.
Work of the Committee The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2005 as follows: Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Announcement At its meetings in August 2005 and March 2006, the Committee reviewed the financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the Companys Interim Announcement and its Annual Report and Accounts respectively.
At each of these meetings the Committee received a report from the external Auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The Auditors reports were based on a full audit Annual Report and a high level review Interim Announcement respectively: accounting policies At its August 2005 meeting the Committee reviewed the IFRS accounting policies and principles reflected in the Companys Interim Announcement and in its document Adoption of IFRS Preliminary Restatement of 2004 Financial Information: internal controls and risk management In November 2005 and March 2006, the Committee considered detailed reports from the Finance Director on the operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, together with observations from the external Auditors.
It also monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk management process, which considers the key risks, both financial and non-financial, facing the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks: Group external Auditors In June 2005 the Committee recommended to the Board, following a comprehensive review, that the Group should rationalise its statutory audit arrangements by appointing Deloitte and Touche LLP to audit all Group companies.
The Board approved this recommendation for 2005: SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 51 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 52 Report of the Audit Committee continued Work of the Committee continued external Auditors work and relationship The Committee reviewed the external Auditors proposed audit plan in November 2005: considered its pre year end issues report in December 2005: reviewed the fees paid for audit services in November 2005 and for non-audit services in November 2005 and March 2006: and assessed the external Auditors independence and objectivity in November 2005 and March 2006: internal audit function In November 2005 the Committee performed its annual review of the need for a Group internal audit function.
As a result, it recommended to the Board that the Groups internal control and risk management systems would be further strengthened by the appointment of an outsourced internal audit function.
The Board accepted the Committees recommendation and an appointment will be made during the first half of 2006: and Whistleblowing policy In March 2006 the Committee reviewed the whistleblowing policy under which employees may in confidence notify the Company of any concerns, inter alia matters involving financial reporting.
It also reviewed the procedures for investigating and resolving any such concerns.
A copy of the whistleblowing policy is available on the Companys website.
Independence of Auditors The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the Group external Auditors.
Both the Audit Committee and the external Auditors, Deloitte and Touche LLP, have safeguards in place to avoid the Auditors independence and objectivity being compromised.
The Group policy with regard to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external Auditors, which was operated during 2005, is based on the principles that they should only undertake non-audit services where they are the most appropriate and cost-effective provider of the service, and where the provision of non-audit services does not impair, or is not perceived to impair, the external Auditors independence and objectivity.
It categorises such services between: Auditor permitted services Those services which it is acceptable for the Auditors to provide and the provision of which can be engaged without referral to the Committee e. g. regulatory and other specialist financial reporting: accounting advisory services : Auditor excluded services Those engagements that the Committee and the Board do not consider appropriate for the Auditors to undertake e. g. selection, design or implementation of major financial systems: provision of internal audit services or risk management assessment and monitoring services : and Auditor authorised services Those services for which the specific approval of the Committee is required before the Auditors are permitted to provide the service e. g. tax planning and structure advice: corporate finance and M&A activity.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any Auditor Authorised Services.
The Committee regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external Auditors.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee and is approved by the Board.
The disclosure of the non-audit fees payable to the external Auditors in 2005 is set out in Note 4 to the Accounts on pages 66 and 67.
The external Auditors report to the Committee each year on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
Deloitte and Touche LLP have formally confirmed their independence to the Board in respect of the period covered by these financial statements.
Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness of Deloitte and Touche LLP, the Committee recommends and the Board agrees that a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte and Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board David Haxby Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 March 2006 52 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
