qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 40 Corporate Governance SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment SIG supports the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this statement and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50 describe how the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code are applied within SIG.
Compliance The Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code for the period under review and has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions set out therein.
The Companys Auditors Deloitte and Touche LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
The Board As at 31 December 2005, the Board was made up of seven members comprising the Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 36.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established and is understood by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr. P. H. Blackburn.
All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
Any Director attaining the age of 70 would be subject to re-election annually.
Board procedures The Board met formally on twelve occasions during the year and individual attendance at those and the Board Committee meetings is set out in the table on page 41.
All Board members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
Board and Committee papers are sent out seven days before meetings take place.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the Board for collective decision and these include: determining the strategy and control of the Group: amendments to the structure and capital of the Company and Group: approval of financial reporting and controls: approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed level: and corporate governance matters and approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively all Directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby Directors wishing to take independent legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the Companys expense.
Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG website www.
40 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 41 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2005.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee P. H. Blackburn 12 561 M. J. C. Borlenghi 12 561 M. J. Chivers 11 N A N A N A G. W. Davies 12 N A N A N A D. A. Haxby 12 561 L. O. Tench 12 N A N A 1 D. Williams 12 N A N A 1 Number of meetings in the year 12 5 6 1 Where N A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Board effectiveness During the year, the Board continued its ongoing evaluation process to assess its performance and that of its Committees and to identify areas in which its effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced.
An appraisal of the Board, each Board Committee, and the performance of each individual Director was carried out using a tailored questionnaire prepared by an independent third party in conjunction with the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The questionnaire was completed by each Director and the results collated and evaluated by the independent third party.
Each Director received a copy of his own report together with a copy of the high level report, which analysed the Board as a whole.
The Chairman received a copy of each Board members report with a copy of his own report being sent to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman met with each Director individually to discuss the results of their individual report and the process with his own feedback being conducted by the Senior Independent Director.
The purpose of the process was to help to identify any areas which needed attention, develop and identify what should be included in the Directors future training programme and to suggest any procedures and improvements which may improve the workings of the Board.
The high level report, which analysed the performance of the Board as a whole, was reviewed and discussed by the Board as a specific agenda item.
The Board plans to conduct evaluations on an annual basis and may use alternative approaches in future years.
The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, meet once a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance.
The Board holds at least two of its meetings every year at Divisional locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the Business.
Relations with Shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
The Groups preliminary and interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange are published on the Companys website.
The Company issues regular trading updates to the market and these, together with copies of interviews with the Chief Executive and copies of the presentations made to analysts can also be found on the Companys website.
In addition, a range of other corporate information is available to investors on the Companys website www.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are responsible for Investor Relations.
Feedback from major Shareholders is reported to the Board by the Finance Director and the Chairman and discussed at its meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Senior Independent Director was available to meet with institutional Shareholders if requested.
Although the Non-Executive Directors are not at present asked to meet the Companys Shareholders, they regularly attend presentations of the annual and interim results.
The Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited to attend.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called and after each such vote the number of proxy votes received for and against the resolution is announced.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 42 Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee operates under written Terms of Reference.
The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees Report is set out on pages 44 to 50.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee operates under written Terms of Reference.
Its principal duty is the nomination of suitable candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Executive and Non-Executive vacancies on the Board.
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and the three Non-Executive Directors.
The meetings of the Committee are chaired by the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations concerning the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office and in the identification and nomination of new Directors.
The Committee appoints external search and selection consultants as appropriate.
The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Board appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, the Nominations Committee would in conjunction with the Board draft a detailed job specification and candidate profile.
In drafting this, consideration would be given to the existing experience, knowledge and background of Board members as well as the strategic and business objectives of the Group.
Once a detailed specification has been agreed with the Board, the Committee would then work with an appropriate external search and selection consultancy to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate shortlist could be agreed.
Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with Members of the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, would be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is given.
The Committee recommended to the Board, following a meeting in February 2006, that Mr. L. O. Tench and Mr. D. A. Haxby both of whom would have completed their first three-year terms of office in March 2006 should be re-appointed as Non-Executive Directors, subject to their continued re-election by Shareholders as appropriate, for a further period of three years.
Neither Director took any part in the discussions concerning their own recommendation for re-appointment.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee operates under written Terms of Reference which are consistent with current best practice.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
Whilst the Group does not have a dedicated internal audit function, the Board annually reviews the need for such a function and has done so during the year.
The Group does have a function, which performs a number of internal audit tasks across the main UK Divisions.
The Board has accepted the Audit Committees recommendation that the Groups internal control and risk management systems would be further strengthened by the appointment of an outsourced internal audit function and an appointment will be made during the first half of 2006.
The Committees Report is set out on pages 51 to 52.
Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
For the whole of the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board has had formal procedures in place to ensure that it is in a position to consider all significant aspects of internal control.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This review has covered all controls including operational, compliance and risk management procedures, as well as financial.
The review is undertaken on a six monthly basis.
42 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 43 Risk management and internal control continued The formal process followed and reviewed by the Board to assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control accords with the guidance issued by the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is summarised as follows: operating management is charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying risks facing each of the operating units and for putting in place procedures to mitigate, manage and monitor risks: operating units formally review all business risks and set out the significant risks to the operations deemed to be of higher concern, the controls in place and additional controls, which could be implemented.
These proposals are approved by each operating units management and submitted in the form of risk action plans to Group Executive management for review and approval.
Any significant matters arising from this review are formally reported to the Board by the Finance Director to ensure that appropriate initiatives are developed and implemented to manage those risks.
The Board is advised in this process by the Audit Committee: and the risk and control identification and management process is monitored and periodically reviewed by Group Executive management.
The key elements of the controls framework within which the Group operates are: an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting requirements: an embedded culture of openness of communication between operating divisional management and the Group Executive management on matters relating to risk and control: defined expenditure authorisation levels: operating reviews covering all aspects of each business are conducted by Group Executive management at least half yearly: and a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for each divisional operating unit is prepared in detail and approved by the Chief Executive.
The Board approves the overall Groups budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Board and remedial action is taken where appropriate.
There is weekly cash and treasury reporting to the Group finance function and periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk framework as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the Groups situation and that there is an acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group: that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Going concern The Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries at the time of approving the Accounts, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
Richard Monro Company Secretary 8 March 2006 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43
