8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 30 Corporate Governance This section contains the companys reporting the views of institutional shareholders prior disclosures on corporate governance required to their appointment.
by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council the Code Board Balance and Independence including the required statement of compliance.
Whilst Chairman, Ian Gowrie-Smith was not Comment is also made on compliance with the considered to be independent due to his shareholding US laws and regulations that apply to it.
and previous executive employment with the Group.
Dr Jerry Karabelas who replaced Ian Gowrie-Smith Governance and Policy as Chairman is considered to be independent at the The Board is committed to ensuring high standards time of his appointment.
of corporate governance are maintained by SkyePharma.
We believe that visibly high standards The Board considers that the remaining Nonresult in increased shareholder value and satisfaction.
Executive Directors are independent in both judgement and character and that they carry out The Board considers that during 2005 the Company their duties in an independent manner and provide complied with all relevant principles and provisions constructive challenge to decisions.
their ability to: rigorously analyse management reports: The Board and its processes robustly defend their own points of view: and Board Membership critically evaluate the pharmaceutical industry The Board currently comprises 4 Executive and 6 and the Company itself.
Non-Executive Directors, whose biographical details are listed under Directors and Officers on pages 26 The Code indicates that independence may be and 27. compromised after nine consecutive years service with a company.
As explained above, Steve Harris has The Executive and Non-Executive Directors are served for more than nine years.
The Board believes, subject to retirement by rotation and re-election however, that he has been key in the development by shareholders in accordance with the Articles of the Company and he continues to make a valuable of Association whereby one third of the Directors contribution to its future growth.
retire by rotation each year.
Michael Ashton, Sir Michael Beavis and Dr Keith Mansford will retire The Role of the Board from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual The Board of SkyePharma plc is responsible for the General Meeting.
Steve Harris having served more Groups system of corporate governance and internal than nine years as a Non-Executive Director will offer control and is accountable for all its activities.
himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the recommendations of the The Board reviews the operational performance Code.
The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual of the Group on a regular basis and also exercises General Meeting are Dr David Ebsworth and Donald a number of reserved powers including: Nicholson who, being eligible, offer themselves for responsibility for setting the strategic direction re-election.
Frank Condella and Ken Cunningham of the Group: having been appointed during the year, will offer approving the key operating plan and annual budget: themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
appointment and dismissal of any Board member, senior manager or Company Secretary: During the year the Board reviewed the composition approving substantial i. e. over 0.5m investments: of the Board, and the balance of skills, knowledge authorisation of financing, treasury and risk and experience its members brought, and concluded management policies: that the Board was of the appropriate size and approving the annual and interim reports: balance for the Company though new Executive and approving and monitoring compliance with the Non-Executive Directors would be required due to the Companys Codes of Ethics and Conduct, including Board changes outlined above.
The Board is actively whistleblowing procedures: recruiting new Board members and will be seeking 30 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 31 itutional shareholders prior ensuring that the Company has adequate internal four meetings prior to his resignation as a director.
control systems: and Directors are fully briefed following any meetings establishing committees of the Board namely, the which they were unable to attend.
At least one formal nd Independence Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, Board meeting and strategy day are held abroad each n, Ian Gowrie-Smith was not approving their terms of reference, reviewing their year to enable directors to visit non-UK sites.
independent due to his shareholding performance and ratifying their decisions.
cutive employment with the Group.
Each formal Board meeting considers, as a matter of las who replaced Ian Gowrie-Smith Board Meetings course, the operational performance of the Company considered to be independent at the The Board meets formally at least eight times a year against its strategic plan and annual budget: reports ntment.
In 2005 15 meetings were from the Chairs of the Nomination, Remuneration held.
These were fully attended, except that Ian and Audit Committees if applicable : important ders that the remaining NonGowrie-Smith, Dr David Ebsworth and Steve Harris forthcoming events and an investor relations report.
ors are independent in both were each unable to attend one meeting, whilst character and that they carry out Dr Jerry Karabelas was unable to attend four Attendance at Board and Committee meetings is set n independent manner and provide meetings.
Mr Torao Yamamoto was unable to attend out in the table below: llenge to decisions.
This is due to Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings meetings lyse management reports: 1 2 3 4 max 15 max 4 max 4 max 3 d their own points of view: and Chairman ate the pharmaceutical industry Ian Gowrie-Smith 14 2 Chair any itself.
Executive Directors es that independence may be Michael Ashton 15 ter nine consecutive years service Donald Nicholson 15 As explained above, Steve Harris has Senior Independent Director than nine years.
The Board believes, Sir Michael Beavis 15 4 4 Chair has been key in the development Non-Executive Directors and he continues to make a valuable 5 Alan Bray 15 4 Chair 3 s future growth.
6 Dr David Ebsworth 14 4 4 2 max 2 7 R Stephen Harris 14 43 Board 8 Dr Jerry Karabelas 11 33 yePharma plc is responsible for the of corporate governance and internal Dr Keith Mansford 15 4 9 countable for all its activities.
Torao Yamamoto 2 max 6 ws the operational performance 1 The Company Secretary also attended all Board meetings.
2 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director, Company Secretary and external auditors a regular basis and also exercises were also invited to attend the Committee meetings.
erved powers including: 3 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary were also invited to attend for setting the strategic direction the Committee meetings except when their remuneration was discussed.
4 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee, the Company Secretary was also invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
5 Alan Bray was appointed to the Nominations Committee during the year.
key operating plan and annual budget: 6 Dr David Ebsworth was appointed to the Nominations Committee during the year.
nd dismissal of any Board member, 7 Steve Harris is currently Chair of the Nominations Committee.
8 Dr Jerry Karabelas was appointed as Chairman of SkyePharma PLC on 2 February 2006.
He resigned from the Audit Committee on that date er or Company Secretary: and he resigned from Nominations Committee on 15 February 2006. stantial i. e. over 0.5m investments: 9 Torao Yamamoto retired as a Director on 18 July 2005. of financing, treasury and risk policies: annual and interim reports: monitoring compliance with the des of Ethics and Conduct, including g procedures: SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 31 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 32 Corporate Governance continued During the year the Board implemented a new policy During the year and in the lead up to the EGM of inviting certain key senior management and the requisitioned by certain institutional shareholders, new Head of Risk Management to give presentations Sir Michael Beavis including other Non-Executive at Board meetings.
Directors where he could not attend had seven meetings and discussions with large institutional The Non-Executive Directors meet independently of shareholders.
In addition to these meetings, Jerry management on a regular basis.
In 2005, they met Karabelas had a number of meetings and discussions formally four times and informally on an ad hoc basis with institutional shareholders in an effort to avert as required.
The members of the Audit Committee the need for an EGM.
The Company is committed to also met with the external auditors independently maintaining a regular dialogue with its shareholders of management on two occasions.
and the process by which this is achieved is explained in more detail below.
The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able in the course of their Role of the Non-Executive Directors duties, if necessary, to take independent professional The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to bring advice at the Companys expense within preset limits independent judgement to Board deliberations and with prior written approval.
Committees have access decisions and to supervise the corporate governance to such resources as are required to fulfil their duties.
The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced and influential individuals whose blend Insurance and Indemnification of skills and business experience contributes to the The Company maintains directors and officers proper functioning of the Board and its Committees, insurance cover, up to a limit of 15m, in respect ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no of any legal actions taken against the directors individual or group dominates the Boards decisionin connection with their duties.
Company indemnifies directors for claims made against them in connection with their duties, except Induction and Development those resulting from their wilful negligence.
New directors receive formal induction training, including site visits and meetings with the Companys Role of Chairman and Chief Executive advisers, brokers, auditors and major shareholders, The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and on-going training is provided as appropriate.
This and are held by different people to ensure a clear training is customised for each director and varies division of responsibility.
The Chairman is responsible depending upon their skills, experience and background.
for running the Board including ensuring the timely flow of information to Board members and overseeing Directors also receive regular updates on changes their development: whilst the Chief Executive is and developments in the business, legislative and responsible for the day-to-day running of the regulatory environments.
Company and reporting upon this to the Chairman.
Directors are able to identify and suggest any further Role of Senior Independent Director training requirements which they feel are needed The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, during their annual performance reviews with the Sir Michael Beavis, is available to shareholders if they Chairman.
request a meeting, or have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or Board Evaluation is inappropriate.
He also provides a communication The Board conducts an annual, formal evaluation channel between the Chairman and the Non-Executive of its own performance and that of its committees Directors.
In addition, he chairs the Remuneration and of individual directors.
This is conducted via Committee and so leads the annual performance anonymised questionnaire devised in accordance review of the Chairman.
Feedback on collective performance is collated and presented to the Board and actions to improve are agreed and implemented.
32 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 33 and in the lead up to the EGM Directors are invited to focus specifically on areas considering any material matters affecting certain institutional shareholders, requiring priority action and to give honest and the Company: vis including other Non-Executive constructive suggestions comments so that the any matters raised by or relating to, including the he could not attend had seven Board can review its performance in a thorough appointment or removal of, the external auditors: scussions with large institutional and thoughtful manner.
responsibility for approving non-audit work to be addition to these meetings, Jerry undertaken by the companys auditors.
This number of meetings and discussions Board Committees process, which involves obtaining written approval shareholders in an effort to avert There are three main Committees, all of which from the Audit Committee, ensures auditor EGM.
The Company is committed to operate within written terms of reference.
The terms objectivity and independence is safeguarded: gular dialogue with its shareholders of reference are available on the company website responsibility for the companys complaints and by which this is achieved is explained www.
com and upon request from whistleblowing policy, which allows staff to raise elow.
Details of Committee concerns about possible improprieties: and membership can be found in the table on page reviewing the functioning of the risk managementExecutive Directors 31 which shows attendance at Board and Committee department, which was created in 2005. on-Executive Directors is to bring meetings in 2005. gement to Board deliberations and Policy on Non-Audit Services supervise the corporate governance No director can attend meetings where he could have The guidelines set out in the companys policy on e Non-Executive Directors are all a conflict of interest.
engaging the external auditors to provide non-audit influential individuals whose blend services include ascertaining that: the skills and iness experience contributes to the Audit Committee experience of the external auditors make them a ng of the Board and its Committees, The Audit Committee currently consists of three suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate atters are fully debated and that no Non-Executive Directors: Alan Bray, Sir Michael safeguards are in place so that the objectivity up dominates the Boards decisionBeavis and Dr David Ebsworth, all of whom the and independence of the audit are not compromised: es.
Board has determined to be independent.
and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
evelopment The Committee is chaired by Alan Bray, a chartered ceive formal induction training, accountant who as a recently retired senior partner Remuneration Committee its and meetings with the Companys of Deloitte & Touche LLP, has recent and relevant The Remuneration Committee currently consists s, auditors and major shareholders, financial experience as recommended in the Code of Sir Michael Beavis, who chairs the Committee, ining is provided as appropriate.
This and meets the requirements of section 407 of the Dr David Ebsworth, Steve Harris and Dr Keith Mansford.
mised for each director and varies Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley that heir skills, experience and background.
During the year the Remuneration Committee met four times.
The meetings were fully attended by all ceive regular updates on changes The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer Committee members and the conclusions were ts in the business, legislative and and Finance Director are normally invited to attend presented to the full Board.
meetings and, following each meeting, the Committee and external auditors meet with The Chief Executive Officer may be invited to attend le to identify and suggest any further no executives present.
Remuneration Committee meetings, other than when ments which they feel are needed his own remuneration is discussed.
No director is ual performance reviews with the During the year the Audit Committee met four times.
involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The meetings were fully attended by all Committee members, except that Dr Jerry Karabelas was unable The scope and authority of the Committee and the n to attend one meeting, and the conclusions were means by which the Company applies the principles ucts an annual, formal evaluation presented to the full Board.
of the Code in respect of remuneration policy are set mance and that of its committees out in the Remuneration Report which is presented directors.
This is conducted via The Committees terms of reference include: on pages 37 to 52. stionnaire devised in accordance reviewing the interim and full year results: eport.
Feedback on collective approving the Interim and Annual Report and The Committee is advised by Halliwell Consulting, collated and presented to the Board Accounts and Form 20-F prior to their submission an independent executive remuneration and share mprove are agreed and implemented.
to the Board: schemes consultancy, which provides no other services to the Company.
SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 33 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 34 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is pleased to be able to The Nomination Committee consisted of Ian recommend Frank Condella and Ken Cunningham Gowrie-Smith, who chaired the Committee until for election to the Board of SkyePharma PLC.
his resignation in January 2006, Steve Harris who is currently Chairman, Dr Jerry Karabelas prior to his In preparation for meeting the requirements of resignation in January 2006 as well as Alan Bray Sarbanes-Oxley, the remit of the Nominations and David Ebsworth who were both appointed to Committee has been extended to include all relevant the Committee in 2005. governance matters.
Accordingly the committee will be known in future as the Nominations and During the year the Nomination Committee met Governance Committee: details can be found on three times.
The meetings were fully attended by all the Company's web site.
eligible Committee members and the conclusions were presented to the full Board.
Reappointment Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial The Committees terms of reference include: term of three years from the annual general meeting regularly reviewing the Board structure, size and following their joining the Board.
All directors must composition: stand for reappointment every three years or every identifying and nominating candidates for the year if over the age of 70 or if they have served on approval of the Board: the Board for more than nine years.
ensuring plans are put in place for succession of the executive directors: and The Board recommends that Steve Harris be making recommendations upon the reappointment reappointed upon his retirement at the forthcoming of the directors upon retirement whether by virtue AGM.
of rotation, age or length of service.
The terms and conditions of appointment of each During the year the Committee searched for Director will be available for inspection at the AGM successors to retiring Board members and since and at the Companys registered office.
31 December 2005 has recommended the appointments of Dr Jerry Karabelas as Chairman, Policy on Other Appointments Frank Condella as Chief Executive Officer and The Board believes that Non-Executive Directors Ken Cunningham as Chief Operating Officer.
should be able to accept other appointments where In the lead up to the requisitioned EGM, the no conflict of interest arises and provided that the Nominations Committee also met with Bob Thian, Non-Executive Director is able to maintain his time the requisitionists candidate for the Board.
These other The motion to appoint Bob Thian was defeated.
appointments enable Non-Executive Directors to accrue further skills and experience from which the Given the specialist nature of the appointments the Company benefits.
This policy is reviewed annually.
Board undertook an extensive search for suitable candidates, including discussions with a specialist Details of any other appointments held by each consultancy firm.
The firm drew up a shortlist Non-Executive Director are listed under Directors of candidates who met the criteria set out by the and Officers on pages 26 and 27.
Candidates were then interviewed by the Nominations Committee prior to their Internal control framework recommendation.
Internal Accountability and Risk Management The Board believes that the Company maintains a sound system of internal control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
During the year these processes were enhanced with the recruitment of a new Head of Risk Management.
34 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 35 Committee is pleased to be able to The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system at Going Concern nk Condella and Ken Cunningham least annually, covering all material controls including The Companys working capital requirements continue e Board of SkyePharma PLC.
financial, operational and compliance controls and to be affected by the timing and receipt of milestone risk management systems, and reports to shareholders payments and payments received on the signing of r meeting the requirements of that it has done so.
The identification and appraisal new contracts.
The Companys future cash flows will the remit of the Nominations of risks has been carried out by the Head of Risk also be impacted by the Companys change in strategy been extended to include all relevant Management as part of his work in preparation for as outlined in the EGM notice dated 16 February 2006, ters.
Accordingly the committee meeting the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley principally its stated aim of moving to sustainable future as the Nominations and see below.
profitability in the shortest possible time and its refocus mmittee: details can be found on to concentrate on oral and pulmonary products.
SkyePharma operates, and attaches importance to, Consequently the Groups near term working capital clear principles and procedures designed to achieve requirements are uncertain and sensitive to the timing the accountability and control appropriate to a scienceof a number of initiatives required to provide the financial irectors are appointed for an initial based business operating internationally in a highly flexibility to implement the new strategy.
These initiatives ars from the annual general meeting regulated business sector.
SkyePharma has established include the licensing of Flutiform in Europe, the ining the Board.
All directors must an organisational structure with clearly drawn lines divestment of its injectable business interests, which intment every three years or every of accountability and delegation of authority.
is expected to require shareholder approval, and ge of 70 or if they have served on the delay of certain licensing discussions, such ore than nine years.
Financial results and key operational and financial as US licensing for DepoBupivacaine pending the performance indicators are reported regularly divestment of its injectables business.
mmends that Steve Harris be throughout the year and variances from plans and n his retirement at the forthcoming budgets are investigated and reported.
The Group The Directors have reviewed the working capital has a system of high level financial control requirements of the Group for the next twelve months procedures which are supplemented by detailed and have a reasonable expectation that sufficient onditions of appointment of each procedures at each operating entity.
Compliance funds will be raised from these initiatives and have available for inspection at the AGM with these procedures is monitored by the new therefore prepared the financial information anys registered office.
Head of Risk Management and the corporate office.
contained herein on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will continue in Appointments No system can provide an absolute assurance operational existence for the foreseeable future.
ves that Non-Executive Directors against material misstatement or loss.
o accept other appointments where Relations with Shareholders erest arises and provided that the Ethics The Companys policy with regard to its investor irector is able to maintain his time All Group employees are required to adhere to relations is set out in The Shares on page 19. the Company.
These other specified codes of conduct, policies and procedures, nable Non-Executive Directors to including, but not limited to: US law and regulation kills and experience from which the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: A number of provisions of US law and regulation ts.
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers apply to the Company because the shares are listed Complaints and Whistleblowing Procedure: on NASDAQ.
her appointments held by each Equal Opportunities Policy: and irector are listed under Directors Environmental Policy.
In general, the rules permit the company to follow Copies of the above are available on our website UK corporate governance practice instead of those framework www.
These policies are all applied in the USA, provided that the company tability and Risk Management reviewed annually.
There are no ves that the Company maintains significant variations to report.
of internal control with a view to areholders investment and the ts.
During the year these processes with the recruitment of a new Head ment.
