8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 36 Corporate Governance continued New rules that came into effect in 2005 require A Disclosure Committee was established in 2003 to the company to file annual and interim written evaluate the effectiveness of the Group and divisional affirmations concerning the Audit Committee and disclosure controls and procedures: the committee the Companys statement on significant differences met once in 2005.
Additionally in 2005 work has in corporate governance.
continued to document and test the internal controls structure and procedures to comply with Section 404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 of Sarbanes-Oxley.
Sarbanes-Oxley established new standards for corporate accountability for companies listed in The Sarbanes-Oxley Steering Committee meets the USA.
For accounting periods ending on or after monthly and reports formally to the Audit Committee 15 July 2006 the applicable implementation date at its regular meetings.
Additionally, the Chairman for foreign registrants the companys Form 20-F of the Audit Committee is available on an informal will contain a report stating the responsibility of basis to discuss any matters arising between meetings.
management for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and assessing the effectiveness of the companys Alan Bray internal control over financial reporting.
Chairman, Audit Committee 22 May 2006 Although the company is not required to report compliance in its 2005 Form 20-F, management has undertaken a process and believes that it will be in a position to report its compliance by the due date.
Statement of Directors' Responsibility in Relation to the Accounts The Directors are required by law to prepare financial The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the statements for each financial period which give a true financial statements are set out in the auditors report.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period The financial statements for the year ended and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
31 December 2005 are included in the Annual Report The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies 2005, which is published by the Company in hardhave been consistently applied and supported by copy printed form and on the Companys website reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates on the Internet.
The Directors are responsible for as necessary: applicable accounting standards have the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report been followed, and the financial statements have on the website in accordance with UK legislation been prepared on the going concern basis.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
This may differ from legislation The Directors are responsible for ensuring the in other jurisdictions.
Access to the website is maintenance of proper accounting records, which available from outside the UK, where comparable disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position legislation may be different.
of the Company and the Group at any time and from which accounts can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for Dr Jerry Karabelas ensuring the operation of systems of internal control Non-Executive Chairman for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for 22 May 2006 taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
