Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Corporate governance The board takes its corporate second consecutive year that we have provided in the board directors biographies governance responsibilities seriously.
reported on our corporate governance on pages 100 to 101.
During 2005, Chris Although the group complies with all of in accordance with the revised Codes Clark, Chairman, was appointed nonthe provisions of the Combined Code, it provisions.
For more information on executive chairman of Wagon Automotives doesnt stop there.
It seeks to surpass the Code, its background and its and on 1 January 2006, Chris was appointed the governance requirements of its provisions, please visit the FRC website, non-executive chairman of Urenco.
As stakeholders and to manage its www.
a result of these appointments Chris business in an accountable and resigned from his role as non-executive transparent manner.
The information that follows explains how deputy chairman of Rexam plc and as we comply with or exceed the Codes non-executive director of FKI plc in Background 14 main principles and detailed provisions.
Biographies of the groups The listing rules of the UK Financial operational management are set out on Services Authority require UK-listed 1.
The board pages 102 to 103. companies to report on their governance Every company should be headed practices and the extent to which they by an effective board, which is The calibre of the non-executive directors, comply with the provisions set out in collectively responsible for the success each of whom has appropriate knowledge Section 1 of the Combined Code on of the company.
and skills combined with relevant Corporate Governance.
The current Combined Code Main Principle A.
1 experience, ensures that they are able Combined Code on Corporate Governance to help develop proposals on strategy, was published in July 2003 by the Financial Composition of the board scrutinise performance and controls and Reporting Council FRC and derives from The board comprises a non-executive ensure the maintenance of robust two reports: Review of the role and Chairman, five independent non-executive governance standards, challenging the effectiveness of non-executive directors, directors and, since April 2005, three executive team as necessary.
The Chairman prepared by Derek Higgs, and Audit executive directors previously there were two aims to ensure that the boards decisions Committees Combined Code Guidance, the Group Chief Executive and the Group are based on consensus.
Should any prepared by Sir Robert Smith, both of Finance Director.
Details of the composition director express unresolved concerns, these which were published in January 2003. of the board and its committees, together would be included in the board minutes by It became applicable for reporting years with the companys assessment of the the Company Secretary.
In the event of beginning on or after 1 November 2003 independence of its directors, are set out in a director resigning over an unresolved and so became effective for the group on table 1.
Details of the roles, backgrounds and issue, the Chairman would bring the matter 1 January 2004.
This is, therefore, the other commitments of the directors are to the attention of the board.
Table 1 Number Number oof f AAudit udit NNomination omination RRemuneration emuneration Position Position years years on on boar board d Independent Committee Committee Independent Committee Committee Committee Committee Richard Adam Group Finance Director 6 No No No No 2 5 3 Aubrey Adams Non-executive director SID 9 Yes Yes Yes Yes Tim Bowdler Non-executive director 5 Yes Yes Yes Yes 4 Stuart Chambers Non-executive director 3 Yes Yes Yes Chairman 1 Chris Clark Non-executive Chairman 1 No No Chairman No Bo Lerenius Group Chief Executive 7 No No Yes No Doug Morrison Executive director 1 No No No No 3 4 Derek Sach Non-executive director 8 Yes Chairman Yes Yes 5 Andrew Simon Non-executive director 11 Yes Yes Yes Yes 1 Chris Clark is not considered to be independent by virtue of his role as chairman of the company 2 Senior Independent Director 3 Aubrey Adams was Chairman of the Audit Committee until 26 April 2005, when he was succeeded by Derek Sach 4 Derek Sach was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until 26 April 2005, when he was succeeded by Stuart Chambers 5 Notwithstanding the fact that Aubrey Adams and Andrew Simon have served on the board for a period in excess of nine years, the board considers that they continue to be independent in character and judgement.
GoverGovernance finance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave The company indemni es directors for The board of Associated British Ports 2.
Role of the Chairman and role of the claims made against them in relation to their ABP, the groups principal subsidiary, Group Chief Executive duties as directors of the company, except manages operational matters relating There should be a clear division of for any losses incurred as a result of their to the UK business.
Bo Lerenius, Group responsibilities at the head of the wilful negligence.
Insurance cover, with an Chief Executive, is Chairman of the company between the running of the annual limit of up to 35m, is maintained in ABP board, which, in addition, comprises board and the executive responsibility respect of legal action against the directors.
Richard Adam, Group Finance Director, for the running of the companys Doug Morrison, Executive Director business.
No one individual should have Board responsibilities and management and Port Director for Southampton, the unfettered powers of decision.
structure four other Port Directors, the Group Combined Code Main Principle A.
2 The board is accountable to shareholders Property Director and the Group and other stakeholders for the groups Engineering Director.
There is a clear split of responsibilities performance.
It meets its responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief for ensuring the successful development of The AMPORTS board manages operational Executive.
The Chairman is primarily the group by: matters relating to the groups USA responsible for the effective running of the business.
It comprises the Group Chief board, while the Group Chief Executive is Setting strategic direction Executive, the Group Finance Director, the tasked with the running of the companys Monitoring operational performance AMPORTS Chief Executive Of cer and the business.
Their different roles are set out in Monitoring health and safety performance AMPORTS Chief Financial Of cer.
writing and have been agreed by the board.
Monitoring environmental performance Setting standards of ethical behaviour The executive directors, ABP and the 3.
Board balance and independence Overseeing the implementation of socially AMPORTS boards operate within clearly The board should include a balance of responsible policies and practices fide ned limits of authority delegated by executive and non-executive directors Developing robust corporate governance the board and must refer any matters and in particular independent nonand risk management procedures outside those limits to the board for executive directors such that no Establishing policies and internal controls its consideration.
individual or small group of individuals can to safeguard the companys reputation dominate the boards decision taking.
and assets Board process Combined Code Main Principle A.
3 Supervising management In addition to maintaining close dialogue Establishing and maintaining an between meetings, the board meets The balance of executive and nonappropriate structure to ensure that the eight times a year in the normal course executive directors on the board and the group is able to meet its statutory of business and once a year to review skills and experience they possess help to obligations strategy.
Board meetings are held at head ensure that the board operates as a team Succession planning.
of ce and at the groups port locations and precludes any individual or sub-group around the UK.
Attendance by individual from dominating its decisions.
The The schedule of matters reserved for the directors at board and committee meetings company considers the total number of its board includes: held during 2005 is set out in table 2 on directors and the balance between page 110. executive and non-executive directors to Annual budgets be appropriate in view of the size and Strategic plans The Chairman met with the non-executive complexity of its operations.
Board balance Payment of dividends directors on two occasions without the has been enhanced by the appointment of Reporting to shareholders and other executive directors being present.
The Doug Morrison as a third executive director.
stakeholders Audit Committee members held As the Port Director for Southampton, Approval of acquisitions and divestments discussions with the external audit partner Doug brings to the board a wealth of Approval of major capital expenditure and the Head of Internal Audit on two practical knowledge and experience of projects occasions during the year without the todays ports industry.
Consideration of signi cant nancing.
indd 109 2 23 2 06 10:48:22 pm 3 2 06 10:48:22 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Corporate governance Table 2 Audit Nomination Remuneration 1 2 3 4 Board Strategy day Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 8 1 5 2 7 Executive directors: Richard Adam Group Finance Director 8 1 N A N A N A Bo Lerenius Group Chief Executive 8 1 N A 2 N A 5 Doug Morrison 6 1 N A N A N A Non-executive directors 6 Aubrey Adams 7 1 4 2 6 Tim Bowdler 8 1 5 2 7 7 Stuart Chambers 7 1 4 1 7 Chris Clark Chairman 8 1 N A 2 N A Derek Sach 8 1 5 2 7 8 Andrew Simon 7 1 4 1 7 1 All board meetings were attended by the Company Secretary and the Deputy Company Secretary 2 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Port Director for Southampton, the Head of Internal Audit, the external audit partner, the Company Secretary and the Deputy Company Secretary also attended the meetings of the Committee 3 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, the Company Secretary also attended the meetings of the Committee 4 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman and the Company Secretary attended the meetings of the Committee and the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director also attended some of the meetings of the Committee 5 Doug Morrison joined the board on 26 April 2005 and has attended all board meetings since his appointment 6 Aubrey Adams did not attend the June board meeting or the Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings held on the same day 7 Stuart Chambers did not attend the February board meeting or the Audit and Nomination Committee meetings held on the same day 8 Andrew Simon did not attend the December board meeting or the Audit and Nomination Committee meetings held on the same day Aubrey Adams became the Senior Derek Sach, who provides the board 4.
Information and professional Independent Director SID in April 2005. with expertise in banking and treasury development During the year, he was available to matters, is a senior executive of the Royal The board should be supplied in a shareholders should they have had Bank of Scotland plc, one of the groups timely manner with information in a form concerns which could not be resolved key relationship banks.
In order to avoid and of a quality appropriate to enable it through the normal channels of any possible con ict of interest, he does to discharge its duties.
All directors communication with the Chairman, not participate in any decisions in relation should receive induction on joining the Group Chief Executive or Group Finance to the selection of the groups banking board and should regularly update and Director, or if such contact would have relationships or procurement of any refresh their skills and knowledge.
No concerns were nancing or derivative instruments Combined Code Main Principle A.
5 brought to the attention of the SID during from any financial institution.
He is also the year ended 31 December 2005. excluded by the Royal Bank of Scotland The Chairman is responsible for ensuring plc from any decisions that relate to that board members receive accurate, Table 1 on page 108 provides a summary the group.
The board considers Derek timely and clear information.
In order to of the companys assessment of the to be independent in character and enable the board to discharge its duties independence of the directors who served judgement, as he is free from any other effectively, board members are provided on the board in 2005.
Both Aubrey Adams, business or other relationship that with background details on all agenda who has served nine years on the board, could interfere materially with his items prior to each board meeting.
and Andrew Simon, who has served independent judgement.
11 years on the board, have decided to All directors have access to the advice and step down from the board with effect from services of the Company Secretary, who is the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
responsible for ensuring that board 110 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave procedures are followed.
Any director may reference of the Audit, Nomination and Figure 1 also take independent professional advice Remuneration committees.
The output from Board evaluation process in furtherance of his duties at the these processes is used to highlight areas of All directors except companys expense.
strength and weakness and is kept under Chairman consideration for the future development of New directors receive background the board and its committees.
The information on the company, including performance of the Chairman is assessed by board papers from recent meetings, details the board.
The process for the evaluation of 12 of recent operating performance, annual the Chairmans performance is led by the budgets and strategic plans and analysts SID, all directors provide feedback on the Company reports on the company.
The company also Chairmans performance.
The overall results 5 4 Secretary facilitates and encourages newly appointed are discussed with the Chairman by the SID.
directors to visit the ports and other Matters highlighted and actions operational areas.
Any directors without implemented as a result of the 2005 previous public company board experience evaluation process included: 3 are provided with training on their roles and responsibilities.
In this regard, as a newly The recommendation for the board Chairman appointed executive director, Doug to undertake a more formal review of Morrison received training from Slaughter succession plans for key executives and May as part of his induction process.
will be taken forward during 2006 All directors are permitted to undertake subsequent training relevant to their duties The current practice for all non-executive 1.
directors to serve on the Audit, 2.
Completed questionnaires returned Remuneration and Nomination both quantitative and qualitative 5.
Performance evaluation Committees will be reviewed during 2006 responses.
The board should undertake a formal 3.
Feedback and analysis of results.
and rigorous annual evaluation of its To allow directors additional time to 4.
own performance and that of its review papers in advance of board 5.
Areas for improvement identi ed, committees and individual directors.
meetings, management will, during 2006, reported back to the board and adopted Combined Code Main Principle A.
6 work towards ensuring that board as appropriate.
papers are sent to members one week The companys evaluation process was before each board meeting.
developed in conjunction with external consultants in 2003.
Re-election conduct the annual evaluation process All directors should be submitted for internally.
Assessments of the effectiveness re-election at regular intervals, subject of the board and its committees take into to continued satisfactory performance.
account factors such as composition, The board should ensure planned and expertise, information ows and procedures.
progressive refreshing of the board.
Figure 1 shows how this process works in Combined Code Main Principle A.
7 relation to the evaluation of the boards performance.
The same process is applied All directors are subject to election by in the evaluation of the performance of the shareholders at the first opportunity after boards committees, although the appointment and to re-election every three questionnaires completed by members differ years.
Details of directors submitted for to re ect the different functions and terms of election and re-election at the forthcoming 111 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
indd 111 2 23 2 06 10:48:23 pm 3 2 06 10:48:23 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Corporate governance AGM are provided in the directors report.
reports, AGM updates and trading updates control system that relates to financial Biographies of the directors proposed for are all reviewed and approved by the reporting.
However, it should be noted election and re-election, together with the board, or a sub-committee of the board, that a sound system of internal control boards justi cation for their election or prior to their release.
can only reduce, not eliminate, risks in re-election, will be provided to shareholders achieving business objectives.
While in the papers accompanying the election The directors statement of responsibilities subject to regular review and update, it and re-election resolutions.
These are in respect of the preparation of financial should be recognised that the groups distributed with this annual report as part of statements is set out on page 104.
The systems can provide only reasonable, and the form of proxy.
In the case of nonauditors statement on the respective not absolute, assurance against material executive directors whose re-election is responsibilities of directors and auditors is misstatement or loss.
proposed, the Chairmans con rmation of included within their report on page 105. their continued effective performance will Internal control also be included in these papers.
After making enquiries, the directors believe Procedures are in place throughout the that the group and the company have group to ensure compliance with the report 7.
Remuneration adequate resources to continue to operate of the Turnbull Committee Internal Levels of remuneration should be for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Control: Guidance for Directors on the suf cient to attract, retain and motivate they continue to adopt the going concern Combined Code.
The key components of directors of the quality required to run the basis in preparing the financial statements.
the groups system of internal control are company successfully, but a company described below.
should avoid paying more than is 9.
Internal control necessary for this purpose.
A signi cant The board should maintain a sound The group has in place clearly fide ned lines proportion of executive directors system of internal control to safeguard of responsibility and limits of delegated remuneration should be structured so as shareholders investment and the authority.
Comprehensive procedures to link rewards to corporate and companys assets.
provide for the appraisal, approval, control individual performance.
Combined Code Main Principle C. 2 and review of capital expenditure.
1 The board acknowledges that it has The Group Chief Executive, the Group Details of the directors remuneration, as overall responsibility for the groups system Finance Director and senior operational required by the Combined Code and the of internal control and for reviewing its and financial managers meet on a regular Directors Remuneration Report Regulation effectiveness.
Through its Audit basis to discuss particular issues affecting 2002, are set out in the remuneration report Committee, it continues to keep the each business unit, including their on pages 118 to 128. internal control systems described major risks.
below under review and has in place 8.
Financial reporting ongoing processes for identifying, The group maintains a comprehensive The board should present a balanced evaluating and managing the signi cant annual planning and management and understandable assessment of the risks faced by the company.
A detailed annual budget companys position and prospects.
it conducts an annual assessment of its is prepared in advance of each year and Combined Code Main Principle C. 1 risk management systems.
The board supplemented by revised forecasts during con rms that the actions it considers the course of the year.
In addition, a The board places a great deal of emphasis necessary have been or are being taken three-year strategic plan is updated on ensuring that all communications with to rectify such failings and weaknesses annually.
Actual financial results are shareholders present a balanced and which it considers to be signi cant from reported monthly and compared to budget, transparent assessment of the companys its review of the system of internal revised forecasts and prior-year results.
The board also con rms that it The board reviews and approves all reports announcements, interim reports, annual has not been advised of material on projected and actual financial reports, corporate social responsibility weaknesses in that part of the internal performance.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave The internal audit function supports the Every year, each operating unit completes business operations.
A risk management directors in assessing the effectiveness of a self-assessment questionnaire that working group, which comprises senior internal controls at each business unit measures and assesses risk areas and executives from the groups operations and through a pre-agreed audit programme.
reviews the principal controls that are in is chaired by the Group Finance Director, is This programme addresses the full place to manage risk.
This questionnaire is responsible for keeping the groups risk spectrum of the groups potential risks by part of the risk management process and is management policy, processes and undertaking reviews in areas such as health reviewed by Internal Audit.
The results, procedures under review.
Its and safety, environmental management which are presented to the Audit recommendations are reviewed and and information technology, as well as Committee, complement the existing updated annually and agreed by the board.
Where control internal and external audit procedures.
weaknesses are identi ed, corrective The embedded risk management process action is taken and, where appropriate, Risk management described in the following paragraphs is communicated to other operating units to As recommended by the Turnbull summarised in gure 2.
This process encourage and enhance best practice Committee, the group maintains enables the board to receive timely around the group.
comprehensive systems to identify, monitor information on all signi cant risks and and manage the major risks relevant to its facilitates the formulation of effective Figure 2 Embedded risk management process Health and safety, environmental, engineering and corporate functions 2 UK operating units ABP board Group Chief 1 6 Executive ABPH board 3, 4, 5 AMPORTS USA Audit Committee Internal Audit 3, 4 1 4 1.
Monthly management and risk 2. Review reports and highlight any 5.
Report internal audit findings relevant to assessment reports.
Reports on key major events, incidents and the boards external report on internal results emerging, risks and actions taken improvement actions.
Includes event incident control failure reporting on 3.
Report summary findings on the risk 6.
Summary report submitted to the board an exception basis.
Report summary audit findings on internal control.
indd 113 2 23 2 06 10:48:24 pm 3 2 06 10:48:24 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Corporate governance responses.
All risks, including social, Endeavour to meet the demands of shareholders throughout the year.
The environmental and ethical risks, which could trade while having due regard for the Group Chief Executive and the Group impact on the groups shortor long-term potential impact of its activities on the Finance Director give presentations to objectives are identi ed, quanti ed, assessed environment institutional shareholders and analysts for likelihood and addressed appropriately.
In immediately after the announcement of the addition to the summary of the speci c risks Ensure that it has in place mechanisms groups half-year and full-year results.
These facing the business that is provided within the to understand, monitor and manage its are subsequently made available on the operating and financial review on pages 32 to obligations to all of its stakeholders.
The group also encourages 49, further information on the groups risk communications with private shareholders management in relation to its corporate social The group aims to manage risk by throughout the year and welcomes their responsibilities CSR can be found on its embedding processes and ensuring that participation at shareholder meetings.
co. uk, and in the controls to manage risk are inherent in dayannual CSR report.
To this end, monthly The Group Chief Executive and Group reports received by the Group Chief Finance Director also conduct one-to-one The groups overall risk management Executive from the operating units cover formal meetings with the groups key objective is to take such strategic and key aspects of the business such as shareholders following the announcement commercial risks so as to enable it to grow commercial matters, health and safety of half-year and full-year results.
The group the business through a thorough issues, personnel issues, financial results obtains independent feedback on these understanding of the risks and responses and future business prospects.
These meetings through its corporate brokers.
The groups fide nition reports also comment on existing risks and This is circulated to all board members of risk is an uncertainty or event that identify any emerging risks along with along with other feedback received during could, unless effectively managed, actions being taken to manage them.
signi cantly affect Associated British Ports such as health and safety and the Holdings PLCs ability to achieve its current environment are further monitored by The company aims to facilitate any requests or future objectives.
written reports submitted to the board on a from its shareholders for meetings with board regular basis.
In addition, risk co-ordinators directors and responds to queries and The group continues to regard its major risk submit regular updates to risk requests for information from existing or management objectives as being to: management personnel at head of ce on potential shareholders.
Chris Clark, risks relevant to their operations.
Chairman, and Aubrey Adams, SID, are Ensure that the health and safety of its available to major shareholders to ensure that employees and other persons is not put 10.
Relations with shareholders any potential concerns can be raised directly.
at risk by its operations There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual The company issues trading statements in Continue to avoid disasters or understanding of objectives.
The board advance of its close periods and provides catastrophes by managing those physical as a whole has responsibility for an indication of trading at the time of the and other risks that have the potential to ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue AGM.
The groups Annual Report & damage signi cantly the financial position with shareholders takes place.
Accounts, preliminary and interim of the group, its reputation or its ability to Combined Code Main Principle D. 1 announcements, trading statements and provide services press releases are available on its website The board is committed to maintaining good at www.
co. uk, as are all regulatory Identify, assess and prioritise communications with shareholders.
Other announcements relating to the group.
All opportunities to grow the business, than during close periods, the Group Chief communications from the company can be having regard for the need to manage Executive and the Group Finance Director obtained in electronic form by e-mailing the groups commercial risks maintain a regular dialogue with institutional pr@abports.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave 11.
Constructive use of the Annual The terms of reference for the Audit meetings held during 2005, and the General Meeting AGM Committee, which include all of the meetings of the committee with the Head The board should use the AGM to recommendations set out in The Smith of Internal Audit and the external audit communicate with investors and to Guidance, can be found on the groups partner, are provided in table 2 on page encourage their participation.
The chairman of the Audit Committee Combined Code Main Principle D. 2 they can be requested from the company.
maintains regular dialogue with the external audit partner and the Head of Internal Audit The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration Derek Sach replaced Aubrey Adams as in between committee meetings.
and Nomination committees attend the Chairman of the Audit Committee on AGM and are available to answer 26 April 2005.
Derek is employed as the In 2005, the committee met formally on five questions.
The Group Chief Executive and managing director of Specialised Lending occasions and dealt with the following the Group Finance Director give a Services at Royal Bank of Scotland and agenda items: presentation on the groups financial results has previously worked as the banks for the most recent financial full year.
Director of Group Risk, with responsibility Review of trading updates issued by Resolutions are proposed on each for the effective control and monitoring of the group substantially separate issue and the agenda risk.
Given his background and experience, Review of the groups half-year and includes a resolution to adopt the groups the board considers that Derek has the full-year results and statement on Annual Report & Accounts.
The notice of current and relevant financial experience the impacts of its transition to the AGM is sent to all shareholders at least necessary to chair the Audit Committee International Financial Reporting 20 working days before the meeting.
Derek receives additional Standards IFRS of the proxy votes for and against each remuneration to compensate him for his Assessment of the going concern basis resolution are announced after the result of additional responsibilities as the committee Review of the nature, scope and the hand votes is known.
chairman see table 13 on page 125. resources planned for the full-year audit, including the external audit fee Appointments to the Audit Committee are Review of the report from the external 12.
Audit Committee and auditors made by the board at the recommendation auditors following their 2004 year-end The board should establish formal and of the Nomination Committee.
The audit and their 2005 interim review transparent arrangements for company ensures that all committee Approval of the internal audit plan for the considering how they should apply the members are familiar with their forthcoming financial year financial reporting and internal control responsibilities by providing regular brie ng Review of reports from the Head principles and for maintaining an papers on developments in corporate of Internal Audit appropriate relationship with the governance and company reporting.
Auditor independence review of companys auditors.
non-audit fees Combined Code Main Principle C. 3 The committee is entitled to seek Assessment of the effectiveness of the independent external advice at the groups internal and external audit functions The Audit Committee report 2005 expense.
The Company Secretary acts as Review of compliance with the In 1993, the board established an Audit the secretary for the Audit Committee and, Combined Code Committee to oversee financial reporting in conjunction with the committee Review of risk management systems, and internal control matters and to maintain chairman and the Group Finance Director, fraud procedures and internal controls appropriate relationships with the companys is responsible for its effective running.
Review of litigation involving the group auditors.
Details of the members of the Audit Review of the companys material risks Committee, all of whom are independent The chairman of the Audit Committee may disclosed in the operating and financial non-executive directors of the company, are invite non-members to attend committee review and how these link to risk set out in gure 1 on page 108. meetings.
Details of the attendees at management processes 115 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
indd 115 2 23 2 06 10:48:24 pm 3 2 06 10:48:24 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Corporate governance Review of disclosures in the companys incurred on the procurement of non-audit Table 3 Annual Report & Accounts in relation to services without prior approval from the Type of work Annual limit risk management, internal control and committee are set out in table 3.
Audit-related regulatory reporting, workings of the Audit Committee including interim review, covenant Review of the Audit Committees terms The value of the non-audit services provided reporting and other audit certi cates 100,000 of reference by the auditors is reviewed by the committee Further assurance, including advice on accounting matters, non-regulatory Review of the audit representation letters on an annual basis.
The committee has also reporting on internal controls or signed by management.
implemented a policy on the employment of corporate governance, due diligence former employees of the auditor.
work and environmental audits 200,000 One of the primary responsibilities of the Tax compliance services 200,000 committee is to review the companys During the year, the committee discussed Tax adviser services 200,000 internal controls and risk management the groups 2004 full year results, its 2005 systems designed to safeguard its assets interim results and IFRS transition statement independence procedures adopted by the and reputation and to help prevent and with management and the external auditors groups auditors.
The committee to ensure that the groups reporting is in line reviews the companys fraud prevention, with its compliance obligations and any The committee is responsible for keeping detection and investigation procedures on financial reporting judgements made were under review the groups internal control an annual basis and requires all actual reasonable and appropriate.
The committee procedures and risk management systems.
incidents of fraud to be reported to the also reviewed the groups formal trading In addition to the findings reported by the chairman.
The committee also regularly statements to ensure that they represented Head of Internal Audit, at its December reviews the companys whistleblowing the boards view of current trading and meeting the committee reviewed the policy, which facilitates con dential future prospects accurately.
output from the self-assessment reporting by employees of any incidents of questionnaires on internal controls fraud and unethical or illegal behaviour to The committee ensures that the groups completed by the business units and an appropriate member of the senior procedures, controls and external reports a report from the groups risk management management team and also provides for are subjected to an appropriate level of working group.
The self-assessment matters to be reported to the chairman of independent scrutiny from internal and questionnaires require all business units to the committee.
The 2005 internal audit con rm the status of their internal controls plan and the level of resources committed covering financial, compliance, The committee recognises the value added to this plan were reviewed and approved commercial, ethical and reputational risks by an independent and robust audit of the by the committee.
The Head of Internal relevant to the groups business and are companys financial statements and Audit provided the committee with signed off by the head of each business maintains procedures to ensure that the progress updates against this plan at three unit.
The report from the risk management independence of the companys auditors is of its five meetings in 2005.
The scope, working group provides details of the not compromised by other business resources and the level of fees proposed groups risk management systems, the relationships.
Recognising also that it is in by the external auditors in relation to the signi cant risks relating to the group and its the interests of the company to engage its groups 2005 interim and full-year audits business units, its procedures for the auditors to undertake certain other nonwere reviewed and approved by the management of fraud risk and a summary audit assignments, the committee has committee.
The committee also assessed of the signi cant risks that are reported agreed a policy which sets limits on the the effectiveness of both the internal and within the operating and financial review.
amount of non-audit services that may be external audit functions, held meetings with provided by the companys auditors the Head of Internal Audit and the external The committee is scheduled to meet three without prior approval from the committee.
audit partner in the absence of executive times during 2006.
Following the The annual limits on the fees that may be management and reviewed quality and publication of the Flint Review of the 116 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Turnbull Guidance on internal control, it is the process which culminated in the General Meeting.
All future appointments intended that the committee will review the appointment of Doug Morrison as an are expected to be for an initial period of up groups risk management systems on a executive director.
It evaluated the balance to three years followed by no more than more frequent basis.
of skills, knowledge and experience already two additional three-year periods.
on the board, and, in the light of this evaluation, it was decided that the balance of the board would be further enhanced by the appointment of an additional executive Chris Clark Derek Sach director directly involved in the running of Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee the business at an operational level.
As the 22 February 2006 22 February 2006 most experienced Port Director, and in view of his wealth of knowledge of the ports industry, it was decided that Doug 14.
Compliance with the provisions of 13.
Appointments to the board Morrison was the most appropriate the Combined Code There should be a formal, rigorous candidate for the role.
The board considers that the company and transparent procedure for the has complied in full with the principles appointment of new directors to During 2005, the committee was informed set out in Section 1 of the updated the board by Aubrey Adams and Andrew Simon Combined Code throughout the year Combined Code Main Principle A.
4 that in view of their length of service they ending 31 December 2005. had decided to retire from the board.
The Nomination Committee report 2005 committee considered the size and While the companys auditors, Membership of the Nomination Committee structure of the board in light of these  LLP, are not is set out in gure 1 on page 108 and its decisions and concluded that it would be required to form an opinion on the terms of reference, which include appropriate to recruit two new noneffectiveness of the companys corporate responsibility for reviewing the size, structure executive directors to replace Aubrey and governance procedures, they are required and composition of the board, are available Andrew.
The committee engaged an to review whether this corporate from the groups website www.
co. external search rm to source and evaluate governance statement re ects the uk.
They are also available, on request, from candidates with suitable experience, skills companys compliance with nine of the the company.
The committee meets as and and backgrounds.
Initial discussions with Codes provisions as speci ed by the when necessary but at least once a year.
potential candidates were led by Chris Listing Rules of the Financial Services Clark and Bo Lerenius.
These provisions are contained The Nomination Committee is responsible candidates met with all of the remaining within section C of the Combined Code, for succession planning and ensuring that board directors and the process was which relates to the area of Accountability all appointments to the board are made concluded by the appointment of and Audit.
Having conducted a review, against objective criteria and on merit.
The Russell Edey and Simon Melliss as  LLP are obliged committee takes into account the balance non-executive directors with effect from to report if it considers that this statement of skills, knowledge and experience of the 1 March 2006. does not re ect such compliance.
No such board in making its recommendations and report has been made.
uses external search rms or open The terms and conditions of appointment of advertising to compile shortlists of all of the groups non-executive directors, candidates for board membership.
including the Chairman, are available for inspection at the groups registered of ce, Chris Clark The committee met twice during the year.
In Chairman Among other activities, it was involved in addition, they can be viewed at the Annual 22 February 2006 117 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
