CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Thissectiondiscusses Smith & Nephews structures and governanceprocedures.
Independent  10 November 1999 2006 JohnBuchanan...........
Independent Non-ExecutiveDeputy 3 February 2005 2008 Chairman Sir ChristopherODonnell... Executive Director, Chief Executive 1 September 1992 2007 Peter Hooley............. Executive Director responsible for 2 April 1991 2006 Financeand  David J. Illingworth......... Executive Director, Chief Operating Officer 8 February 2006 2006 Dr. Pamela J. Kirby.........
Independent  1 November 2000 2007 BrianLarcombe...........
Independent  1 March2002 2008 RichardDe Schutter........
Independent  1 January 2001 2007 Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg.....
Independent  1 January 1998 2007 DirectorsBiographies Dudley G. Eustace 69 Chairman, was appointed independent Deputy Chairman in 1999 and independent non-executive Chairman in January 2000 and is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is non-executive Chairman of Aegon NV and non-executive director of Hagemeyer NV and Royal KPN NV.
He will retire at the close of business of the AGM on27 April 2006.
John Buchanan 62 was appointed independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in 2005 and is a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is a non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC, BHP Billiton Plc and Vodafone Group Plc and was formerly Group Chief Financial Officer of BP p. l. c. Previously he was a member of the United  Board and a  Boots Group PLC.
Sir Christopher ODonnell 59 Chief Executive, joined the Group in 1988 as managing director of the medical division and was appointed a director of Smith & Nephew in 1992.
He was appointed Chief Executive in 1997 and is a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is a non-executive director of BOC Group plc.
Previously he held  and US companiesinthe medical engineeringand devices industry.
Peter Hooley 59 Finance Director, joined the Group and was appointed Finance Director in 1991.
He is a non-executive director of Cobham plc.
Previously he held senior financial positions with Matthew Hall plc and BICC plc.
He is to retire inthe summer of 2006.
David J. Illingworth 52 Chief Operating Officer.
He joined the Group in May 2002 as President of Orthopaedics and was appointed to the Board in February 2006 as Chief Operating Officer.
Prior to joining the Group he held posts within GE Medical, was Chief Executive Officer of a publiclytraded medical devices company, President of a respiratory criticalcare companyand President of a .
Dr. Pamela J. Kirby 52 was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
She is non-executive Chairman of Scynexis Inc and a non-executive director of Informa plc, Oscient  CuralogicA S. Warren D. Knowlton 59 was appointed a director in November 2000.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the .
He is Group Chief Executive of MorganCrucibleplc.
Brian Larcombe 52 was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is Senior Independent Director of Partygaming plc and a non-executive director of F&C Asset Management plc.
Previouslyhe was Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group plc.
Richard fide Schutter 65 was appointed a director in January 2001 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation and a non-executive director of VarianInc.
MedPointe Pharmaceuticals, Ecolab Incand NavicureInc.
Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg 65 was appointed a director in 1998.
He is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of Management Consulting Group plc and Lanxess AG and a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc, Hoyer GmbH, TNTN.
V. Deutsche BP AG and Biesterfeld AG.
49 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew and other senior executives are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
The Group Executive Committee GEC, which comprises the executive directors and certain other senior executives of Smith & Nephew the Executive Officers, assists the Chief Executive in the management of the business.
The following are Executive Officers of Smith & Nephew and all, apart from the CompanySecretary, are members of the GEC: Dr. Peter Arnold 44 Group Director of Technology.
He joined the Group in 1997 and worked in business development and research and development roles.
He was appointed to the GEC in January 2004.
Priorto joining the Group he was responsible for research and development for Johnson& Johnsonswoundcare business.
Mark Augusti 40 President Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies.
He joined the Group in April 2003 as Vice President of Global Marketing for the Trauma Division and was promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager Trauma Division in 2005.
He was appointed to the GEC in February 2006.
Previously he worked inthe US and Asia for GE Medical Systems.
Sarah Byrne-Quinn 42 Group Directorof Strategy and Business Development.
She joined the Group in2004 and was appointed to the GEC in April 2005.
Prior to joining the Group, she held management positions with Cable & Wireless plc, Ameritech Corp and a numberof investment banks.
Scott Flora 50 President Orthopaedic Reconstruction.
He joined the Group in 1986 and worked in various sales and marketing roles.
He was promoted to Senior Vice President of Trauma and Clinical Therapies Division in 2003.
In 2005 he became Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Reconstruction Division.
He was appointed to the GEC inFebruary 2006.
Peter W. Huntley 45 Group Director Indirect Markets.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in April 1998, responsible for the Groups strategy and business planning.
He was appointed to his current role in December 2003.
Prior to joining the Group, he was a consultant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells, and the Business Development Directorfor Matthew Clark plc.
James A. Ralston 59 Chief Legal Officer.
He joined the Group in 1999 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Smith & Nephew Inc. and was appointed to the GEC in February 2002.
Prior to joining the Group he was inprivate practice and VP General Counseland Secretary for Eagle-Pitcher Industries, Inc. Paul M. Williams 59 Group Director Human Resources.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in December 1998.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior human resources director roles with NCR, Heinz, Glaxo and Rolls-Royce.
Joe Woody 40 President Advanced Wound Management.
Joined the Group in 2003 as Vice President and General Manager of the Clinical Therapies Division.
Previously he worked for Alliance Imaging, Acuson and GE Medical Systems.
James M. Taylor President, Endoscopy has resigned as of 24 February 2006.
After 30 years with Smith & Nephew, the last seven years as President of Advanced Wound Management, James L. Dick will retire in the summer of 2006.
Company Secretary Paul R. Chambers 61 Company Secretary.
He joined the Group in 1994 as Assistant Company Secretary and was appointed CompanySecretary inApril 2002.
50 GOVERNANCE AND POLICY The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council, requires UK listed companies to make a disclosure statement on the application of the Principles and Supporting Principlesand compliancewiththe Provisionsof the Code.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate Governance and considers that it has complied in full with the Code throughout the year, except that no member of the Audit Committee has recent financial experience.
However, all members have relevant financial experience as senior executives of large corporations.
The Board further considers that the members of the Audit Committee have the skills and experience of corporate financial matters to discharge properly the Committees responsibilities.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent, as defined by the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, and meet the definition of financial expert in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act inthe US.
In accordance with the Code, the following paragraphs describe Smith & Nephews Corporate Governance policiesand procedures and howit applies the Principlesand  CombinedCode.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the NYSE and the Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as the US securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board believes that it has complied throughout the year with both SEC and NYSE requirements related to corporate governance except that, to accord with the Combined Code, the Nominations Committee consists of a majority of independent directors and does not consist wholly of independent directors, as required by the NYSE.
The Board The Board of Directors of Smith & Nephew consists of an independent non-executive Chairman, three executive directors and six independent non-executive directors.
In 2005, the Board met onseven occasionsand individual attendance was: Dudley Eustace 7, Sir Christopher ODonnell 7, Peter Hooley 7, Dr Pam Kirby 7, Warren Knowlton 7, Brian Larcombe 6, Richard fide Schutter 7 and Dr Rolf Stomberg 7.
John Buchanan joined the Board in February 2005 4 and David Illingworth was appointed in February 2006.
John Buchanans non attendance at some meetings was anticipated at the time of his appointment due to prior commitments and Brian Larcombes absence was anticipated for one meeting.
When directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of matters to be discussed and have an opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
The Board is responsible for the strategic direction and overall management of the Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions which include the approval of certain policies, budgets, financing plans, large capital expenditure projects, acquisitions, divestments and treasury arrangements.
Otherwise it delegates the executive management of the Group to the Chief Executive and certain specific responsibilities to Board Committees, as described on pages 52 to 53.
It reviews the key activities of the businesses and considers and reviews the workundertakenby the Committees.
Non-executive directors meet regularly prior to each Board meeting without management in attendance and the Senior Independent Director meets with the other non-executive directors annually to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
Board meetings are held at the major business units enabling directors to have a greater understanding of the business and to meet the management of these units.
All directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and, if necessary, to independent professional advice.
Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance is in place.
Induction programmes are provided for new directors and training is offered to all directors.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible to the Board for ensuringthat board and governanceprocedures are compliedwith.
Whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Group, there is a clear division of respective responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board including setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible for managing and supervising the day-to-day business of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board.
The Chief Operating Officer reporting to the Chief Executive will take responsibility for leading the forward growth of the four business units enabling the Chief Executive to focus more on strategy and business development.
The GEC advises and assists the Chief Executive and the Chief Operating Officer inthe management of the Group.
51 The Senior Independent Director is Dr Rolf Stomberg, whose role includes consulting with members of the Board on issues relating to the Chairman and chairing meetings of the Nominations and Audit Committee in the absence of the Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is available to shareholders if they have concernsthat cannotbe resolved throughthe normalchannelsof contactwiththe ChairmanorChief Executive.
In 2004, a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was undertaken by an external consultant with the emphasis on continuous improvement and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
This was followed up in 2005 with an internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees led by the Senior Independent Director again with the emphasis on continuous improvement and effectiveness.
This was effected through a confidential questionnaire and individual discussions with the Senior Independent Director.
The evaluation concluded that the Board continues to function effectively and to manage the direction of the Group appropriately, and the Board Committees continueto functioneffectively and discharge their duties in the manner prescribed by their terms of reference.
The evaluation provided inputs which are expected to lead to further improvement of Board process.
Individual evaluation is carried out by the Nominations Committee with particular emphasis on the evaluation of those directors standing for re-appointment at the AGM.
The non-executive directors, led by the SeniorIndependent Director, evaluate the performanceof the Chairman.
The Board has determined that none of the non-executive directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group either directly as an employee or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationshipwiththe Group and therefore are .
Withthe exception of the Chairman, who is provided with healthcare cover, they do not receive additional remuneration apart from directors fees, do not participate in the Groups share option schemes or performance related bonus schemes, and are not members of the Groups pension schemes.
No director of Smith & Nephew is a director of a companyoran affiliate inwhichany other directorof Smith & Nephew is a director.
None of the directors or executive officers or any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same address as the director or officer, or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of Smith & Nephew has a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are or were a party from the beginningof fiscal year 2004 to 24 February 2006.
Details of the Groups policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are included in the RemunerationReport.
Board Committees The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees, each of which has its own terms of reference, which may be found on the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the committees.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee met on six occasions in 2005 individual attendance is shown in parenthesis.
The Committee, consisting entirely of independent non-executive directors, is chaired by Warren D. Knowlton 6.
He was appointed to the Committee in February 2001 and became Chairman of the Committee in July 2001.
The other members of the Committee are Brian Larcombe 5 who was appointed to the Committee in January 2003, Richard fide Schutter 6 who was appointed in February 2001 and Dr Rolf Stomberg 5 who was appointed in February 1998.
The Chairman of the Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are circulatedto all members of the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, consisting entirely of independent non-executive directors, met four times in 2005 individual attendance is shown in parenthesis and is chaired by Dr Rolf Stomberg 4.
The other members of the Committee are Dr Pam Kirby 4, Warren Knowlton 3 and Richard fide Schutter 4.
The Remuneration Committee sets the pay and benefits of the executive directors and members of the GEC, approves their main terms of employment and determines share options and long-term incentive arrangements for the Group.
It also reviews management successionplanning.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, consisting of three independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive, met three times in 2005 and its Chairman, Dudley Eustace, and members, Dr. Rolf Stomberg and Sir Christopher 52 ODonnell, attended all meetings.
John Buchanan was appointed to the Committee in May 2005 and attended two meetings.
The Committee oversees plans for Board of Directors succession, recommends appointments to the Board of Directors and determines the fees of the non-executive directors.
Succession planning is regularly reviewed and appropriate measures are taken to ensure the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and experience necessary for a major global medical devices company.
It provides a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Candidate profiles are agreed by the Committee before external consultants are engaged to advise on prospective Board appointees.
Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by members of the Committee who then recommend candidates to be interviewed by all members of the Board.
The final decision is made by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director oversees the process for the appointment of a new Chairman.
 Under Smith & Nephews articles of association, any director who has been appointed by the Board of Directors since the previous annual general meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director, holds office only until the next annual general meeting and then is eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
Subsequently, directors retire and offer themselves for re-election at the third annual general meeting after the meeting at which they were last reappointed.
The directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Executive Officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
David Illingworth was appointed a director by the Board on 8 February 2006 and, in accordance with the articles of association, will retire at the annual general meeting to be held in April 2006 and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
Peter Hooley will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election at the AGM.
In February 2006 Smith & Nephew announced that Peter Hooley will retire in the summer of 2006.
It was also announced that John Buchanan would succeed Dudley Eustace as independent non-executive  retirement at the conclusionof the 2006 AGM.
53 ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems, which accord with the Turnbull Guidance, have been in place for 2005 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts and involve: the identification, evaluation and management of key risks through a Risk Committee, which reports to the Board annually: business reviews by the Board: and the review by the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and the risk management process.
These systems are reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, these systems are designed to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee comprises the members of GEC and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, management at each of the business units identify the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
Areas of potential major impact are reported to the Risk Committee at its meetings which are held twice a year.
The annual Group Risk Report of the Risk Committee to the Board details all principal risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price.
The most significant Group risks are reported to the Board quarterly, which include new key or significantly increased risks along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks.
Theprincipalrisks are detailed inRisk Factors to be foundonpages 23 to 26.
In 2005 the effectiveness of the business units systems to identify and manage material risk were evaluated and the findingsreported to the Audit Committee.
Nomaterial weaknesses were identified inthese systems.
DisclosuresCommittee and Evaluation of  Procedures The Disclosures Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and also comprises the Finance Director and the Group Director of Corporate Affairs.
The secretary is the Company Secretary.
The Committee approves the releases of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority and the London and New York stock exchanges.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2005.
Based upon, and as of the date of, that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Finance Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective, to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports which the Group files and submits underthe Exchange Act inthe US is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as and whenrequired.
In the 2004 Annual Report management reported that it had identified certain adjustments that were needed to the UK US GAAP reconciliations in prior years and that it had restated the reconciliations accordingly.
Under US reporting these adjustments, when taken together, were indicators of a material weakness in the US GAAP disclosure controls.
Management remediated this material weakness by appointing external specialist US GAAP advisors in February 2005 and by recruiting an additional internal accounting staff member to increase the resources focused onUS reportingissues.
There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting other than mentioned above that occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internalcontrolover financialreporting.
Codes of BusinessPrinciples The Codes of Business Principles, which include a whistleblowing policy are available at www.
com and are available on request and apply to all directors, officers and employees.
Any breaches of the Codes are reported to the Company Secretary who is obliged to raise the issue withthe Chief Executive orChairmanand the Audit Committee.
During 2005 and up until 24 February 2006 there have been no breaches of the Codes and no waivers have been put inplace norany amendments made to the Codes.
54 Code of Ethicsfor SeniorFinancial Officers The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which is available at www.
com and is available on request.
It applies to the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisionsnorany amendments made to the Code during2005 orup until24 February 2006.
Activitiesof the Audit Committee for 2005 TheAudit Committees remit, whichis set out inits terms of reference, : monitoring the integrity of the Companys accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and  and  containedinthem:  to the Companys financialperformance: monitoringand reviewingthe effectiveness of the Companys internalaudit function: recommending, for shareholder approval, the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as appropriate: approvingthe remunerationand terms of engagement of the external auditors: monitoringand reviewingthe external auditors independenceand the effectiveness of the audit process: pre-approval of the external auditors to supply non-auditservices: monitoringthe effectiveness of : reviewingthe operationof the riskmanagement process: and reviewing arrangements by which staff may raise complaints against the Company regarding financial reportingorother matters.
TheGroup has specific policieswhichgovern: the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors which prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
Each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required, together with a notification to the Audit Committee of the service and the fees involved.
All services provided by the independent auditors duringthe year were pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and audit partner rotation, which is in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years has expired sincetheir previous involvementwiththe Group.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and other members of management attend the meetings when necessary and the external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets without management in attendance, when appropriate, and meets with the auditors, without management present, from time to time.
 of the Audit Committee duringthe year ended 31 December 2005 included: considerationof the quarterly, interimand preliminaryresults and the annualaccounts: considerationof the proposed redenominationof the capital of the CompanyintoUS Dollars and the move to US : consideration of the Groups preparation for the introduction in 2006 of s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: a review of the Groups approachto , its processes, outcomesand disclosures: a review of the Internal Review departments activities for the year, together with its resource requirements and findings: a review of : 55 a review of the reports from the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, on their professional and regulatory compliance inorder to  objectivity, includingthe rotationof partners: a review of the audit, audit-related and tax services provided by Ernst & YoungLLP: review and the pre-approval of all services provided by the auditors during the year including all non-audit work performed by the auditors together with associated fees, to ensure that the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Group was not compromised.
Ernst & Young LLP provided noconsultancywork: consideration of Ernst & Young LLPs in-depth reports to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and controland : a review of the effectiveness of the performance of Ernst & Young LLP effected by the completion of a questionnaireby the units audited withinthe Group and by the members themselves: recommendingthe re-appointmentof Ernst & YoungLLPas the Groups auditors: confirmation that no concerns were raised with the Committee about possible improprieties in matters of  matters: reviewing the Committees terms of reference to ensure they reflect recent developments in corporate governanceinthe UK and the US: considerationof the Groups riskmanagement process: and an evaluation of its performance during the year, effected by means of a questionnaire and individual discussions.
The Committee may obtain legal and other independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as it deems necessary.
Duringthe year, nosuchadvice was sought by the Committee.
Future  On 2 March 2005 the SEC announced the postponement by a further year for foreign registrants of the deadline for compliance with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Management will be required to report on the Groups internal controls over financial reporting for 2006.
Work has been carried out during 2005 in preparation for  Act and willcontinueto be progressed during2006.
Auditrelated fees principally include accounting consultation in relation to International Financial Reporting Standards, advice regarding the switch to US Dollar reporting and advice regarding compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
Tax fees include tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning services.
A more detailed breakdown of audit fees may be foundinNote 37 of the Notes to the Accounts.
56 SHAREHOLDERS Shareholders The Group issues a summary report on the year, the Summary Financial Statement, unless a shareholder requests the Groups full Annual Report.
Over 90% of non-US shareholders have chosen to only receive a copy of the Summary Financial Statement.
In the US, the Group issues the  together withthe full Annual Report to all shareholders.
At the half year, an Interim Report is sent to all shareholders and quarterly reports are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website.
Copies of the full Annual Report, the Summary Financial Statement and the Interim Report are also available on the Smith & Nephew website alongwithpress releases,  and audiowebcasts.
There is a regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with quarterly results telephone conference calls.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the executive directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-executive directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are expected to do so if shareholders request a meeting.
In 2005, no such request was received.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the directors at the AGM, at which the level of proxy votes received are advised, and the Company regularly responds to letters from shareholders ona range of issues.
Share capital All the Ordinary Shares, including those held by directors and officers, rank pari passu with each other.
Following approval by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting in December 2005, redenomination of the Ordinary Shares into US Dollars took place in January 2006.
The new US Dollar Ordinary Shares carry the same rights as the previous Ordinary Shares.
In order to comply with English law the Company has issued 50,000 of shares in Sterling.
These were issued as Deferred Shares, which are not listed on any stock exchange and have extremely limited rights and therefore effectively have no value.
These were allotted to the Chief Executive, thoughthe Board reserves the rightto transfer them to anothermember of the Board shouldit so wish.
At the AGM, the Company will be seeking a renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased, or contracted for or, are the subject of an option under the current expiring authority given by shareholders at the AGM of 5 May 2005.
The shares acquired and referred to in the section Share Capital were acquired under powers that enable the Trustees of the Companys Long-Term IncentivePlan to acquireshares.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, which have been approved by the Audit Committee, willbe proposed at the AGM.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a web site at www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of the other informationsubmitted by the Group to the SEC may be accessed throughthe SEC website.
