44 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Compliance with the Combined Code The Board sets the Companys values and standards and has adopted a Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics which is Throughout the accounting period covered by this report, the referred to in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 32 and 33.
Company has been in full compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 issue the Code applicable under The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the executive the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, with two exceptions.
directors present at least three times per annum.
The senior independent First, there was no senior independent director from 1 August to director meets the other non-executive directors without the Chairman 21 September 2004, on which date Mr Jackson was appointed to that present at least annually.
The second exception is that the Chairman is a member of the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considers that the Chairman benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
should participate in decisions concerning remuneration of the executive members of the Board.
The following table shows the number of scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings held during the year ended 31 July 2005 and The Code requires listed companies to report how the main and opposite each directors name the number of meetings attended.
supporting principles of the Code have been applied, giving enough However, directors attend many other meetings and visits during the detail to enable shareholders to evaluate the report, and to state year.
The Board views directors contributions as measured beyond whether there has been compliance with the provisions of the Code, simplistic meeting attendance records.
giving an explanation for any points of non-compliance.
Reference in Board Audit Remuneration Nomination this report to principles and provisions are to those of the Code from Number held 8453 which the following headings are taken.
D H Brydon 7 3 3 2 2 Directors K Orrell-Jones 1 1 2 2 1 1 The Board K O Butler-Wheelhouse 8 The first main principle requires the Company to have an effective Sir Nigel Broomfield 8 3 3 5 1 1 Board which is collectively responsible for its success.
Supporting principles describe the Boards role to provide entrepreneurial D J Challen 8 4 3 3 leadership within a framework of controls that allow risk to be Sir Colin Chandler 2 2 1 1 1 1 assessed and managed.
The Board should set strategic aims and J Ferrie 8 the Companys values, ensuring that obligations to shareholders Sir Julian Horn-Smith 6 5 1 1 are met.
Non-executive directors have a particular role in overseeing P J Jackson 8 3 2 2 the development of strategy, scrutinising management performance L H N Kinet 7 7 and ensuring the integrity of financial information and systems of J Langston 8 risk management.
The Board is satisfied that it has met these D P Lillycrop 8 requirements.
E Lindh 4 4 During the last year several important changes have been made to R W OLeary 623 the membership of the Board.
Upon the retirement from the Board of Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 8 4 2 2 Mr Orrell-Jones on 21 September 2004, Mr Brydon succeeded him as A M Thomson 8 Chairman and Mr Challen was appointed as a non-executive director.
the figure in brackets indicates the maximum number of meetings the director could have attended On the same date Mr Challen, who had been an observer at Board in view of the period during which he was a Board or Committee member and Board Committee Meetings since 1 June 2004, succeeded Sir indicates not a member of that Committee in 2004 05 Colin Chandler as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Three other directors retired during the year Sir Colin Chandler on 16 November Chairman and Chief Executive 2004, Mr Lindh on 20 January 2005 and Mr Kinet on 6 July 2005.
Another main principle requires a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and executive responsibility for As at 22 September 2005, the Board comprises Mr Brydon, Chairman, running the business, so that no one person has unfettered powers Mr Butler-Wheelhouse, Chief Executive, four other executive directors of decision.
and six independent non-executive directors.
Mr Jackson is the senior independent director.
Biographies of the directors, giving details of their The Board has met this requirement by establishing clearly defined experience and other main commitments, are set out on page 39. roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is The wide ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness directors ensure that they can debate and constructively challenge and setting its agenda.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is management in relation to both the development of strategy and the Chief Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic performance against the goals set by the Board.
The Board normally meets formally at least eight times a year to Board balance and independence make and review major business decisions and monitor current The Company complies with the requirement of the Code that trading against plans which it has approved.
It additionally exercises there should be a balance of executive and non-executive directors control by determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal such that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards schedule which only the Board may change: these matters include decision taking.
the acquisition of companies, the issue of shares, significant In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board contractual commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk Committees, the need to refresh membership of the Committees management processes and major capital expenditure.
Once a year is taken into account.
the Board meets in conference with a particular focus on long-term strategy and developments affecting the Company.
Additional meetings All the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and are arranged as necessary to deal with urgent items.
Mr Brydon was, in compliance with the Code, considered independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman.
45 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report continued Appointments to the Board The performance evaluation of the Chairman was led by the senior The Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent independent director who obtained the views of both the executive procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be made and non-executive directors.
on merit and against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee Re-election fulfils these requirements and its report is set out on page 47.
Under the Code directors should offer themselves for re-election Information and professional development at regular intervals and there should be a planned and progressive Another main principle requires that information of appropriate quality refreshing of the Board.
is supplied to the Board in a timely manner and that, in addition to Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of induction programmes on joining the Company, directors should three years and reappointment for a second term is not automatic.
regularly update their skills and knowledge.
In exceptional circumstances and only after rigorous review, a The Board is provided with detailed information several days in advance non-executive director may serve for a third term.
Any non-executive on matters to be considered at its meetings and non-executive director who has served for more than nine years is subject to annual directors have ready access to the executive directors.
Directors stand for reappointment by the shareholders visits are arranged and non-executive directors are encouraged to at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment visit sites independently.
During site visits, briefings are arranged and and subsequently at least every three years.
The report from the the Board is free to discuss aspects of the business with employees Nomination Committee set out on page 47 explains the process at all levels.
for selection of directors and succession planning.
Newly-appointed directors undergo a structured induction programme Remuneration to ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on of the Company and its activities.
Starting at the time of their page 47 and the Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 48 to 56. appointment, and continuing on an incremental basis over the first six Accountability and audit months, they undertake briefing sessions on corporate governance, Financial reporting strategy, stakeholder issues, finance and risk management and HR The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable strategy, as well as meetings and site visits to business locations in assessment of the Companys position and prospects, not only in the UK, the US and continental Europe.
Each directors individual the Annual Report and Accounts but also in the Summary Financial experience and background is taken into account in developing a Statement, and in interim and other public reports.
The Board is programme tailored to his own requirements.
satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the directors Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary.
The suitability responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 57. of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary The going concern statement required by the Code is set out in the who is charged with facilitating the induction of new directors and Directors Report on page 41. with assisting in the ongoing training and development of directors.
Internal control All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Code requires the Company to maintain a sound system of Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the professional advice at the Companys expense should this be required.
The Board must review the effectiveness of Performance evaluation the internal control system at least annually, covering all material The Code requires the Board to undertake a formal and rigorous controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees risk management systems, and report to shareholders that they have and the directors.
The Turnbull Report, adopted by the UK Listing Authority, provides guidance for compliance with that part of the Code.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and the directors was conducted by means of detailed questionnaires The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk and that were completed by each director.
The answers to the questionnaires a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor formed the basis of a review by the whole Board, led by the Chairman.
The procedures for accountability and Regarding the Board, comments were invited on a wide range of control, which accord with the guidance on internal control issued issues including the appropriateness of matters specifically reserved by the Turnbull Committee, are outlined below.
for the Board, its contribution to the development and review of strategy, The Board accepts its responsibility for maintaining and reviewing the the terms of reference of its Committees, the effectiveness of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems.
These are process for identifying and managing risks, logistics of Board Meetings designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to and the composition and operation of the Board.
For the Board which it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, Committees, the matters addressed included the appropriateness not absolute, assurance against material loss to the Company or of their responsibilities, the logistics of their meetings, the availability material misstatement in the financial accounts.
of internal and external support and the composition and operation of the Committees.
The questionnaire relating to each directors The Group has an embedded process for the identification, evaluation performance addressed several issues including the directors and management of significant business risks.
The process is reviewed contribution at Board Meetings, with particular reference to the through the Audit Committee and monitored by the Group Internal development of strategy and risk management, how effectively the Audit Department.
The Company has during the year identified and director refreshes his knowledge and skills and, specifically for each evaluated the key risks under three categories strategic: operational: non-executive director, his willingness to devote time and effort for and information and has ensured that effective controls and the benefit of the Company.
procedures are in place to manage these risks.
46 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report continued In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which the Audit Committee Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed operating From 1 August to 21 September 2004 the Audit Committee procedures manuals and are reinforced by regular educational comprised Sir Colin Chandler, as Chairman of the Committee, programmes.
These are designed to ensure compliance not only Mr Jackson, Mr OLeary and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen.
On with the regulatory requirements but also with the general principles 21 September 2004 Sir Colin retired from the Committee, Mr Challen of business integrity.
joined the Committee as its Chairman and Sir Nigel Broomfield became a member of the Committee.
From that date the Committee A key element in any system is communication and a number of comprised Mr Challen, as Chairman of the Committee, Sir Nigel committees enable the executive directors and senior corporate Broomfield, Mr Jackson, Mr OLeary and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen.
staff to address financial, human resource, risk management and other control issues.
Experience is shared by subsidiaries through The Board has determined that the Committee members have company-wide seminars.
the skills and experience necessary to contribute meaningfully to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the Chairman of the Throughout the year the Board has reviewed the effectiveness Committee has requisite experience in accounting and financial of internal control and the management of risks at its regular management.
In addition to financial and business reports, the Board has reviewed medium and longer-term strategic plans: Under its terms of reference, the Committee monitors the integrity capital expenditure and development programmes: management and of the Companys financial statements and the effectiveness of the product development programmes: reports on key operational issues: external audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that an tax: treasury: risk management: insurance: legal matters: and Audit appropriate relationship between the Company and the external Committee reports, including internal and external auditor reports.
auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
It also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control Audit Committee and Auditors and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing A principle of the Code is that the Board should establish formal the Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should audit function and is responsible for approving the appointment apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for and removal of the Director, Internal Audit.
The Committee reviews maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors, annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness and recommends  LLP.
This obligation is satisfied through to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
the work of the Audit Committee which is described on this page.
In April 2005, the Board amended the Committees terms of Relations with shareholders reference to include responsibility for monitoring the Companys Dialogue with shareholders Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics and Corporate The Company is required to have a dialogue with shareholders, based Responsibility and Business Ethics Programme.
on the mutual understanding of objectives, and it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue does In the year to 31 July 2005, the Audit Committee discharged its take place.
responsibilities by reviewing: The Code recognises that primary contacts are likely to be by the the Groups 2004 financial statements and 2005 interim results Chief Executive and the Financial Director but requires the Chairman statement prior to Board approval and the external auditors and senior independent director, and other directors as appropriate, detailed reports thereon: to maintain contact with major shareholders in order to understand the Companys 2005 Interim Results restated under the International their concerns.
Financial Reporting Standards and a draft of the IFRS announcement The Financial Director and the Director, Investor Relations, released in July 2005: communicate with institutional investors through analysts briefings the audit fee and non-audit fees payable to the Groups external and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, US and continental auditors: Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements, meetings with management and site visits.
Members of the Board, and in the external auditors effectiveness and their plan for the audit particular non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors views of the Groups 2004 05 accounts, which included confirmations of in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
At auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving least twice a year a report is made to the Board on the number and the terms of engagement for the audit: types of meetings between the Company and institutional shareholders.
an annual report on the Groups systems of internal control The Chairman is available in the event of shareholder concerns which and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results cannot be addressed through management.
At the time of appointment of the review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of new non-executive directors they are available to meet shareholders of financial control: on request.
the risks associated with major business programmes: Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All directors normally attend the Companys Annual General Meeting the internal audit functions terms of reference, its 2004 05 work and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting programme and regular reports on its work during the year.
and to meet directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to the level of proxy terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and votes received including the percentages for and against and the to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
abstentions in respect of each resolution following each vote on a show of hands.
No one other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings.
However, the non-executive directors who Board Committees are not members of the Committee, the Chief Executive, Financial The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are Director, General Counsel, Group Financial Controller, Director, available upon request and on the Companys website.
47 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report continued Internal Audit and the external auditors are normally invited to attend.
composition of the Nomination Committee and the composition Others may be invited to attend by the Committee.
The papers for and and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Minutes of each Committee Meeting are sent to all directors.
At least It reviews regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board, once a year, there is an opportunity for the external auditors, the including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and Director, Internal Audit and the Director of Compliance and Business the independence of the non-executive directors, and makes Ethics to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Both the Director, Internal Audit and the The Committee meets periodically when required.
No one other than external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but outside formal Committee meetings.
the non-executive directors who are not members of the Committee The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under review and the Chief Executive are normally invited to attend and external the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external advisers may be invited by the Committee to attend.
auditors in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are The Committee has access to such information and advice both maintained.
Under the audit independence policy, approved by the from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, Committee, certain non-audit services may not be provided by the as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external external auditors, certain services require the approval of the executive search consultants, where appropriate.
The Committee Financial Director and other services require the approval of the reviews annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and Chairman of the Committee.
Where the cost of the services is recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of expected to exceed 100,000, the engagement will normally be such review.
The external auditors have in place processes to ensure their independence is maintained including The procedures referred to above were used by the Nomination safeguards to ensure that where they do provide non-audit services, Committee in the appointment of Mr Brydon as Chairman and their independence is not threatened.
They have written to the Audit Mr Challen as a non-executive director both with effect from Committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
This included an assessment of the time commitment expected from the director and, for the Chairman, Remuneration Committee recognising the need for his availability in the event of major From 1 August to 21 September 2004 the Remuneration Committee corporate action.
Independent executive search consultants were comprised Sir Julian Horn-Smith, as Chairman of the Committee, used in connection with each appointment.
Mr Orrell-Jones, the Mr Orrell-Jones, Sir Nigel Broomfield and Mr OLeary.
On 21 September former Chairman, was not a member of the Nomination Committee 2004 Mr Orrell-Jones retired and Messrs Brydon and Challen joined panel which recommended to the Board the appointment of the Committee.
From that date the Committee comprised Sir Julian Mr Brydon as his successor.
Horn-Smith, as Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brydon, Sir Nigel Broomfield and Messrs Challen and OLeary.
The Committees responsibilities are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 48.
The Committee meets periodically when required but at least three times per annum.
No one other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but the non-executive directors who are not members of the Committee and the Chief Executive are normally invited to attend and external advisers may be invited by the Committee to attend.
No executive is present when the Committee considers matters relating to himself or acts in matters relating to himself.
Mr Brydon is absent when his own remuneration as Chairman of the Company is under discussion.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive directors remuneration.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
Nomination Committee From 1 August to 21 September 2004 the Nomination Committee comprised Mr Orrell-Jones, as Chairman of the Committee, Sir Colin Chandler, Sir Nigel Broomfield and Sir Julian Horn-Smith.
On 21 September 2004 all these directors retired as members of the Committee and they were succeeded by Mr Brydon who joined the Committee as its Chairman and Mr Jackson and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen who joined as members of the Committee.
The Committee leads the process for identifying, and makes recommendations to the Board regarding, candidates for appointment as directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the
