R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group has applied the Principles set out in Section 1 of Board structure and process the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board has four scheduled meetings a year and holds the Combined Code or the Code, as described below additional meetings as necessary.
The Board determines and, in connection with Directors remuneration in the the Companys business strategy and provides the Directors Remuneration Report.
entrepreneurial leadership required to ensure its strategic aims can be achieved.
The Board operates within a formal Board composition and independence framework of decision making designed to reserve matters The Board of Directors, whose names and biographical of establishing the strategy, business plan and nature or details are set out on pages 24 to 25, comprises ten scope of the Companys business to the Board.
Under this Directors in addition to the Chairman.
Five of these ten, framework, authority for implementing the strategy and including the Senior Independent Director, have been decisions taken by the Board is largely delegated to the identified in the Directors Report on page 27 as Executive Directors and management within a system of independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with internal controls designed to enable the risks of the Group the Boards responsibility for determining whether a to be managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has director is independent in character and judgement.
established clear expectations for the Companys Notwithstanding this, each of the Companys Directors economic, social and environmental conduct to promote strictly abides by their legal and ethical duties owed to the the highest level of integrity and honesty in meeting its Company to act objectively and in the best interests of the obligations to its stakeholders.
Company and its shareholders as a whole.
SOCOs Board membership comprises a broad range of The Board assesses the independence of each Nonskills, knowledge and experience, which is critical to the Executive Director at least annually, giving full consideration success of the Company.
The Board functions as a unitary to those circumstances that the Code states may appear body, within which Directors assume certain roles to ensure relevant.
In considering tenure exceeding 9 years, the the Board as a whole fulfils its responsibilities.
These roles, Board seeks to ensure this is not applied arbitrarily, but with including Committee memberships, are designed to full regard to appropriateness and relevance to the maximise the effective contribution of each of the Nonindependence of the individual Director involved.
Executive Directors to the Board, its Committees and to the Executive Directors, while ensuring an appropriate balance In conducting its current assessment the Board has is maintained.
The composition of the Board and its considered whether each Director continues to exhibit Committees is in accordance with Code guidelines.
No those qualities and behaviours it considers essential for Director serves on more than two Committees.
At least Non-Executive Directors to be considered independent.
annually, the Non-Executive Directors meet without Consideration was additionally given to the results of Executives present and, led by the Senior Independent individual evaluation and continued satisfactory Director, meet without the Chairman present.
Particular scrutiny was applied in assessing meetings are conducted in the spirit of good governance the continued independence of Mr Peter Kingston, Mr and process, and are intended to ensure a forum for open John Norton, and Mr John Snyder, each having served 9 dialogue without disruption of Board unity.
Directors are years as of the upcoming AGM date.
The Board has subject to reappointment at least every three years, giving determined that each of these Directors, in addition to Mr consideration to their continued effectiveness as well as the Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Martin Roberts, are independent balance of the Boards composition.
in character and judgement and free from any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are to affect, their judgement.
The Board believes the varied responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The experience of these five independent Non-Executive Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board Directors provides an exceptional balance of skills and and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is knowledge required for the business.
responsible for leading the executives and ensuring their SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED effectiveness in the running of the Companys business.
direction of the Group to the Board and for providing Their division of responsibilities is set by the Board.
accurate, timely and clear information to enable the Board Together they are responsible for promoting the highest to take sound decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors standards of integrity and probity.
review managements performance and ensure that the systems in place provide adequate and effective financial Executive Directors are responsible for implementing the control and risk management.
They must be satisfied that Boards agreed strategy through the development of an they have sufficient information for the discharge of their appropriate business plan and for executing actions duties, which may be achieved through dialogue with approved by the Board in accordance with relevant management, training where appropriate to update their authorities.
The Non-Executive Directors contribute to the knowledge or skills and consultation with independent development of strategic proposals through constructive professional advisors as required.
probing based on review and analysis that brings to bear the unique skills and knowledge each brings to the Board.
The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is responsible for facilitating the communications and The Executive Directors provide the leadership of the senior processes of the Board, both within the Board and its managers in the day to day running of the Groups business Committees and with management, in compliance with and manage the Groups risk programmes including the Board procedures and governance guidelines.
The Secretary environmental, health and safety performance of the facilitates an induction programme on appointment that is business.
They must ensure the Company has adequate tailored to a new Directors individual qualifications and financial and human resources to meet its objectives.
The Secretary provides advice and service as are responsible for reporting the performance and strategic may be required in the ongoing discharge of the Directors Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The following table sets out the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings and attendance of members at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held Number of meetings attended Patrick C J Maugein Peter E Kingston Olivier M G Barbaroux Roger D Cagle Robert M Cathery Ettore P M Contini John C Norton Martin J D Roberts John C Snyder Rui C fide Sousa Edward T Story SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 30 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED duties, including ensuring that the Company provides the Committee meets at least three times a year.
The Chief necessary resources for access to independent advice and Financial Officer and a representative of the external individual professional development needs.
Additionally, auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
Other briefing sessions are provided in the course of regular Board Directors are invited to attend as determined appropriate meetings and Committee meetings on relevant issues as or beneficial.
At least once a year the Committee meets deemed appropriate.
with the external auditors without executive Board members present.
Committees The Board has established three Committees, as The Committees primary responsibilities include reviewing described below, each having formal terms of reference the effectiveness of the Companys and the Groups TOR approved by the Board which set out its delegated systems of internal control, overseeing the selection of and role and authority.
The TORs, which are available for relationship with external auditors and the review and inspection, are set in consideration of the provisions of the monitoring of the integrity of financial statements.
The Combined Code and are reviewed from time to time in the Committee is responsible for review of the Groups major context of evolving guidance.
Each Directors specific financial, operational and corporate responsibility risk Committee memberships, including as Chairmen, are set management processes, which it conducts at least out on pages 24 to 25.
Whilst only Committee members annually.
It has been delegated the responsibility for are entitled to attend meetings, other Directors are invited advising the full Board on compliance with the Combined to attend from time to time to ensure the Committees Code, including its internal control requirements, as well as responsibilities are undertaken with access to the Boards compliance with evolving guidance on corporate full breadth of knowledge and experience.
The Company governance issues generally.
Secretary ensures that the Company additionally provides such resources as the Committees require in the discharge The Committee held four meetings in 2005 and has of their duties.
conducted one meeting to date in 2006, all of which were attended by executive management and external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee Other Non-Executive Directors were in attendance at a The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Peter portion of these meetings by invitation.
A private session, Kingston, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, without executives present, was held during two of these and additionally comprises Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr meetings.
Additionally, a number of other informal Martin Roberts, both of whom are independent Nonmeetings and communications took place between the Executive Directors.
The names and qualifications of each Chairman, various Committee members, external auditors of the members are set out on pages 24 to 25.
The and the Companys executives and employees.
The Committee is responsible for recommending for approval Committee reviewed and approved the terms and scope of by the full Board the remuneration of the Chairman, the the audit engagement, the audit plan and the results of the Executive Directors and officers of the Company and audit with the external auditors, including the scope of Group.
During 2005, the Committee conducted a review of services associated with the Groups transition to its TOR and of the effectiveness of its own performance.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Details of the Committees policies and objectives are set audit-related regulatory reporting services.
An assessment out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41. of the effectiveness of the audit process was made, giving consideration to reports from the auditors on their internal The Audit Committee Report quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor independence and The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Peter Kingston, the objectivity was assessed, giving consideration to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and auditors confirmation that their independence is not additionally comprises Mr John Norton and Mr Martin impaired.
The Committee approved the non-audit services Roberts, both of whom are independent Non-Executive provided by the external auditor, having concluded such Directors.
The names and qualifications of each of the services were compatible with auditor independence and members are set out on pages 24 to 25.
The Board is were consistent with relevant ethical guidance.
Details of satisfied that the collective experience of the members these services are set out in Note 9 to the financial includes relevant and recent financial experience and statements.
The Board concurred with the Committees provides the complement of skills required for the recommendation for the reappointment of Deloitte & Committee to discharge its functions effectively.
The Touche LLP as the Companys auditors for 2006.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, the of the Committee after an appropriate dialogue among Companys arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns Committee members to ensure a consensus of views.
regarding improprieties in confidence, which would be Additionally, a number of other informal meetings and addressed with appropriate follow-up action.
On behalf of the communications took place between the Chairman, various Board, the Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Committee members and the Companys executives Companys internal controls and risk management systems, and employees.
including consideration of an internal audit function, which is more fully described in the Internal Control section of the During the year the Committee reviewed Board structure, size Corporate Governance Report.
The Committee has reviewed and composition, including a profile of the skills, knowledge and approved the related compliance statements set out and experience represented on the Board, which was utilised therein.
The Committee has additionally reviewed and to facilitate the Boards review of Director independence, approved the statements regarding compliance with the including in particular in regards to tenure.
The results of these Combined Code.
reviews were in turn utilised in developing the Committees recommendations for continuation in office and The Committee reviewed and discussed with management reappointment of Directors retiring by rotation.
and the auditors the Companys relevant financial information prior to recommendation for Board approval.
This included in Although no vacancies arose during the year, the Committee particular the financial statements and other material has a process in place for identifying and nominating information presented in the annual and interim reports, candidates to fill vacancies which may arise from time to time, financial information presented upon first time adoption of including ensuring Board membership is sufficiently refreshed IFRS and financial information presented related to the and retains an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
proposed disposal of the Groups Mongolia interests.
The The Committee develops an appropriate description of the role, Committee considered and recommended the adoption of estimated time commitment and the capabilities which would US dollars as the Groups presentation currency, reflecting the complement the composition of the Board and its Committees.
primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
The Committee would expect to utilise an independent external The Committee considered the significant financial reporting advisor to facilitate any search.
A diverse list of candidates is issues, accounting policies and judgements impacting the compiled and a rigorous review process undertaken, involving financial statements, and the clarity of disclosures.
other Board members as deemed appropriate.
Committee recommendations are submitted for full Board approval.
The The Committee conducted a review of its TOR and of the Company Secretary facilitates induction upon appointment.
effectiveness of its own performance.
The Committee led the Board in evaluating its own The Nominations Committee Report performance and that of its Committees and individual The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Patrick Directors.
The Company Secretary facilitated compilation of Maugein, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, other the results.
The Senior Independent Director facilitated than when convened to consider a successor as Chairman.
It relevant discussions regarding the role of the Chairman.
The additionally comprises Mr Ed Story, the Chief Executive process was undertaken for the purpose of adding value to Officer, and Messrs. Olivier Barbaroux, John Norton and John the quality of the Board and its procedures through identifying Snyder, who are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The and addressing strengths and weaknesses.
Additionally, it Committee meets at least once a year.
Its primary was utilised to assess Director effectiveness and the time responsibilities include making recommendations to the commitments of Non-Executive Directors.
Actions for Board regarding the appointment and reappointment of improvement were undertaken as deemed appropriate.
The Directors and Committee memberships.
It is responsible for Committee performed a review of its TOR and of its own review and recommendations regarding overall Board performance as part of this process.
structure and composition, succession planning and establishing an ongoing process for evaluating the Board and After giving consideration to Board structure and composition, its members.
evaluations, time commitments, length of service, individual contributions and the requirements of the Board, the The Committee held one meeting in 2005 and has conducted Committee recommended that each of the Directors one meeting to date in 2006.
Certain Committee functions retiring by rotation be proposed by the Board for were delegated to a Sub-Committee, which acted on behalf reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 32 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue with shareholders.
Relations with shareholders advises the Board when additional communication from the The Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring effective Chairman, Senior Independent or other Non-Executive communication is maintained with key stakeholders and Directors has been requested.
The Chairman regularly partners, including establishing an appropriate level of contact interfaces with other principal shareholders.
The Board with major shareholders and ensuring that their views are considers whether additional communication may be communicated to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors are appropriate or desirable.
In particular, the delegated role of the responsible for taking sufficient steps to understand these Senior Independent Director includes being available to views, including any issues or concerns.
shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be fully or appropriately addressed by the Chairman or the SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue with Executive Directors.
The Company maintains an internet website wherein important information can be posted and Internal control disseminated promptly to a wide audience and through which The Directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and shareholders can electronically interface with executive reviewing the effectiveness of a sound system of internal management.
At a minimum, the Company provides three control which is designed to provide reasonable assurance personal communication forums annually the AGM, the regarding the reliability of financial information and to presentation of Annual Results and the presentation of Interim safeguard the shareholders investment and the assets of the Results whereby shareholders can directly interface with Company and Group.
Given the inherent limitations in any Company executive management.
Notice of the AGM is system of internal control, even a sound system can only circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to provide reasonable assurance, and not absolute assurance, the meeting, and resolutions are proposed for each that the Company will not be hindered in achieving its substantially separate issue.
The result of proxy voting is business objectives or be protected against material announced after votes are taken on a show of hands.
Directors are available to answer shareholder questions and, in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and The Board has put in place formally defined lines of Nominations Committees are in attendance to respond to any responsibility and delegation of authority and has delegated to specific queries.
executive management the implementation of material internal control systems.
Documented policies and procedures are in The Company has assigned a senior executive the place for key systems and processes and the authority of the responsibility for investor relations and has employed an Directors is required for key matters.
outside agency, both to provide assistance in the dissemination of information to shareholders and the general A comprehensive budgeting process is in place for all items of public and to actively solicit feedback as to the effectiveness expenditure and an annual budget is approved by the Board.
Additionally, the Company maintains an Actual results are reported against budget on a regular basis.
ongoing, active dialogue with institutional shareholders, Revised forecasts for the year and longer term financial specifically and proactively seeking opportunities for face-toprojections are produced regularly throughout the year.
face meetings at least twice a year, coincident with mid-term and full-year results, between fund managers and Company The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the executive management.
major business risks facing the Company and Group and developing appropriate policies to manage those risks.
The A brokers briefing is presented at scheduled Board meetings risk management approach is used to focus attention on the and public relations and analysts reports are distributed to the Groups most significant areas of risk and to determine key full Board.
A Non-Executive Director maintains regular control objectives.
communications with SOCOs major institutional shareholders, reports feedback directly to the Board and SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code, Directors responsibilities by establishing an ongoing process, which has been in place The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report throughout the year to the date of this report and which is and the financial statements, including a Directors Report and in compliance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Directors Remuneration Report in compliance with the on the Combined Code published in September 1999, requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Financial for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS both for the the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, Group, as required, and for the Company, by election.
which is constantly evolving to meet the demands of a Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial dynamic environment.
statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial including financial, operational and compliance controls and statements for each financial year fairly present the financial risk management, is reviewed at least annually by the position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group.
The review is based principally on discussions with The Directors are required to faithfully represent the effects of management and on reviewing reports provided by transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with management to consider whether significant risks are the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, but also may income and expenses in accordance with the relevant include independent interaction with employees or third framework set out by the IAS Board.
The Directors are also parties.
The Board considers whether appropriate actions are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: taken promptly to correct any significant weaknesses present information in a manner that provides relevant, identified, and if more extensive monitoring may be required.
reliable, comparable and understandable information: and The Board seeks to ensure that internal control and risk provide additional disclosures when compliance with IFRS management processes, including dealing with any identified requirements is insufficient to enable the user to fully areas of improvement, are embedded within the business.
understand the impacts on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts, which considers The Directors are required to prepare financial statements on all significant aspects of internal control arising during the the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume period, and is satisfied with the process employed and the that the Group will continue in business.
The Audit Committee spearheads the Board in enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that discharging its review responsibilities.
Audit Committee the Company and Group have adequate resources to membership comprises highly experienced professionals with continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
complementary areas of expertise in the oil and gas sector and For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in each Committee member makes an important contribution to preparing the financial statements.
Messrs. Peter Kingston, John Norton and Martin Roberts undertake specific review processes in the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting areas of technical and operating, financial and audit, and records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time commercial and legal, respectively, and report the results of the financial position of the Company and Group.
They are their work to the full Committee and to the Board.
Although the also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Company does not currently have an internal audit function, and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the the Directors review at least annually the need to establish such prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Companys current staff size limits the ability to Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of form an effective internal audit function and, accordingly, the the Company website.
Company expects to outsource any internal audit needs.
Auditors responsibilities Statement of compliance with Code of The auditors responsibilities are set out in the Independent Best Practice Auditors Report on pages 42 to 43.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 34
