AstraZeneca Annual Report and 68 Form 20-F Information 2005 AUDIT COMMITTEES REPORT The current members of the Audit Committee Number of The Audit Committee oversees the are John Buchanan Chairman of the Name meetings attended establishment, implementation and Committee, Jane Henney, Michele Hooper John Buchanan 7 maintenance of the Companys Code of and Dame Bridget Ogilvie.
They are all Jane Henney 5 Conduct.
It establishes procedures for the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers Michele Hooper 8 receipt and handling of complaints concerning each member to be independent under the Dame Bridget Ogilvie 9 accounting or audit matters.
It appoints and UK Combined Code and under the general Marcus Wallenberg 8 agrees the compensation for the external guidance and specific criteria of the New York auditor subject, in each case, to the approval Stock Exchanges corporate governance In addition to attendance at Audit Committee of the Companys shareholders at a general listing standards concerning the composition meetings, members of the Audit Committee meeting.
The Audit Committee reviews and of audit committees.
In August 2005, the met individual managers or groups of managers approves the appointment and any dismissal Company submitted the required annual from the Company on a number of occasions of the Chief Internal Auditor.
written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its during 2005.
This direct contact with full compliance with those standards.
Marcus management below the level of Chief Financial The Audit Committee maintains policies and Wallenberg was a member of the Audit Officer and Group Financial Controller helped procedures for the pre-approval of all audit Committee throughout 2005 but stepped the Directors gain a deeper insight into areas services and permitted non-audit services down with effect from 31 December 2005. relevant to the Audit Committees work and undertaken by the external auditor.
The principal provided an opportunity to discuss specific purpose of these policies and procedures is The Board remains satisfied that more than areas of interest.
to ensure that the independence of the one member of the Audit Committee has external auditor is not impaired.
The policies recent and relevant financial experience.
During the year, in line with its normal practice, and procedures cover three categories of At its meeting in December 2005, the Board the Audit Committee also held a number work audit services, audit-related services determined that Dr Buchanan and Ms Hooper of private meetings, without management and tax services.
The policies define the type are audit committee financial experts for present, with both the Companys Chief of work which falls within each of these the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Internal Auditor and the lead partners from the categories, as well as those non-audit services of 2002.
The purpose which the external auditor is prohibited from of these meetings was to facilitate free and open performing under the rules of the US Securities The core remit of the Audit Committee includes discussions between the Audit Committee and Exchange Commission.
The pre-approval reviewing and reporting to the Board on: members and those individuals, separately procedures permit certain audit, audit-related from the main sessions of the Audit Committee, and tax services to be performed by the Matters relating to the audit plans of which were attended by the Chief Financial external auditor during the year, subject to the external auditor and the internal Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
fee limits agreed with the Audit Committee in audit function.
The Group Financial Controller and The Companys overall framework for The Audit Committee is currently scheduled the Director of Group Tax monitor the status internal control over financial reporting and to meet seven times in 2006. of all services being provided by the external for other internal controls and processes.
The procedures also deal with the The Companys overall framework for risk During 2005, the business considered and placing of non-audit work out for tender, where management with particular emphasis discussed by the Audit Committee included appropriate.
Authority to approve work in on financial risks.
the matters referred to below.
Following each excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated The accounting policies and practices Audit Committee meeting, the Chairman of to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in the of the Company.
the Committee reported to the Board on the first instance.
Regular reports to the full Audit The annual and quarterly financial reporting principal matters covered at the meeting.
Committee are also provided for and, in carried out by the Company.
The minutes of Audit Committee meetings practice, a standing agenda item at Audit were also circulated to all Board members.
Committee meetings covers the operation The Audit Committee is charged with promptly of the pre-approval procedures.
bringing to the attention of the Board any The Companys financial disclosures significant concerns of the external auditor were reviewed and various accounting The full remit of the Audit Committee is available or the Chief Internal Auditor about the conduct, matters considered.
on the Companys website: astrazeneca.
results or overall outcome of their audit work, any matters which may significantly affect The Companys transition to financial The Audit Committee held seven scheduled or impair the independence of the external reporting under International Accounting and two unscheduled meetings in 2005. auditor, any significant deficiencies or material Standards International Financial Reporting Seven of the meetings were held in London, UK weaknesses in the design or operation of Standards was monitored.
This included including three by telephone.
One meeting was the Companys internal control over financial the review and approval of changes to held in the US and one in Alderley Park, UK.
reporting or other internal controls and any certain accounting policies as part of that All Audit Committee members participated in serious issues of non-compliance.
transition and review of the Companys all meetings, save as set out in the following restated consolidated financial statements table.
Michele Hooper chaired those meetings under IAS IFRS for the comparative that the Chairman of the Committee was periods of 2003 and 2004. unable to attend.
Audit Committees Report 69 Reports were received from the external The Companys continuing work to comply auditor concerning its audit of the financial with the applicable provisions of the US statements of the Company and from Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was monitored management, the internal audit function by the Audit Committee.
In particular, and the external auditor on the it regularly reviewed preparations for the effectiveness of the Companys system implementation in 2006 of section 404 of of internal controls and, in particular, its the Act concerning internal control over internal control over financial reporting.
The Audit Committee This included review and discussion of the also periodically reviewed the role of the results of the Companys continuous external auditor in the section 404 work assurance and annual letter of assurance to ensure its independence is not impaired processes.
These processes are described when it provides attestation opinions in the Directors Report on pages 64 and 65. in 2006.
More details about the status of The Audit Committee also reviewed quarterly the Companys implementation of section activity reports of audit work carried out 404 are set out in the Financial Review on by the internal audit function and the status page 56. of follow-up actions with management.
The Audit Committees remit was reviewed The Audit Committee reviewed data about during 2005: it was concluded that the calls made by employees to the Companys remit remains appropriate and no changes Code of Conduct helpline seeking were recommended.
guidance on corporate responsibility issues or raising concerns and the results of the A review and assessment of the Audit reviews of these matters.
No material Committees performance was carried out.
issues were reported through this route during the year.
Following discussions at its meeting in January 2006, the Audit Committee unanimously The Audit Committee reviewed accounting recommended to the Board that a resolution matters relating to the Companys for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as arrangements with Merck & Co. Inc. the Companys external auditor be proposed resulting from the restructuring in 1998 to shareholders at the AGM in April 2006. of the joint venture between Astra AB and Merck & Co. Inc. At the same meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer Continuing review took place of the presented to the Audit Committee their Companys US sales and marketing conclusions following the evaluation of the compliance programme as well as effectiveness of the Companys disclosure initiatives being taken in the International controls and procedures required by Item Sales and Marketing Organisation in 15 a of Form 20-F as at 31 December 2005. respect of internal control, governance Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive and compliance matters.
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as at that date, the Company Matters concerning the internal audit and maintains an effective system of disclosure global finance functions were reviewed.
The amount of audit and non-audit fees There was no change in the Companys of the external auditor were monitored internal control over financial reporting that throughout 2005.
The Audit Committee occurred during the period covered by this was satisfied throughout the year that Annual Report and Form 20-F Information that the objectivity and independence of the has materially affected, or is reasonably likely external auditor were not in any way to materially affect, the Companys internal impaired by either the nature of the noncontrol over financial reporting.
audit work undertaken by the external auditor during the year, the level of nonOn behalf of the Audit Committee audit fees charged for such work or any JOHN BUCHANAN other facts or circumstances.
Further Non-Executive Director and details of the audit and non-audit fees Chairman of the Audit Committee for the year are disclosed in Note 27 2 February 2006 to the Financial Statements on page 127.
