Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 17 Directors statement on corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate absences: Marcus Beresford 1, Frederick DAlessio 1, Andrew Given 2, governance, the process by which the Group is directed and managed, risks Gran Ennerfelt 3 and Kurt Hellstrm 3.
The reasons for the absences are identied and controlled and effective accountability assured.
The Board were due to either unavoidable changes in the Board meeting calendar at considers that it has complied throughout the year under review with the short notice, the director being ill or the director having to be elsewhere for requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code other urgent business.
Where the director was absent, full documentation which was issued in 2003.
This statement describes how the principles and for the meeting was issued and briengs were provided as appropriate.
provisions of corporate governance set out in the Code have been applied A schedule of matters specically reserved for the Boards decision has been within the Group.
adopted whilst certain other responsibilities have been delegated to four standing Committees with clearly defined terms of reference which, The Board together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed annually.
The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, six further non-executive Each Committee is provided with sufficient resources so that it may directors and two executive directors, details of whom are given on page undertake its duties.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration 12.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with a clear and Nomination Committees are available upon request to the Company division of responsibility between them which is set out in writing and Secretary and are also available on the Companys website.
The executive directors are supported by senior managers who are responsible The size, balance and composition of the Board supports the Boards for assisting in the development and achievement of the Groups corporate role, which is to determine the long term direction and strategy of the strategy, business plans, budgets and for reviewing operational and financial Group, create value for shareholders, monitor the achievement of business performance.
The team, together with the executive directors, are responsible objectives, ensure that good corporate governance is practised and to ensure for agreeing and monitoring policies and other matters not reserved for the that the Group meets its other responsibilities to its shareholders, customers Board.
Further details of the senior management team can be found on the and other stakeholders.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that Companys website.
appropriate processes are in place in respect of succession planning for appointments to the Board and to senior management positions.
To ensure good communication between the Board and each Committee, the Company Secretary is the appointed Secretary to all standing Board The non-executive directors each appointed for an initial three year term Committees.
have a wide range of skills and experience which helps to ensure that independent judgement is exercised on issues such as strategy and All directors receive appropriate training and induction upon appointment performance and also that a proper balance of power is maintained for full and subsequently as necessary.
Non-executive directors enhance their and effective control.
The non-executive directors in particular the understanding of the Group through regular business sector presentations, Chairman devote sufficient time and attention as necessary in order to the receipt of monthly reports from the Chief Executive and site visits.
Other professional commitments of the non-executive Chairman and the executive directors are responsible for ensuring that the directors are provided in their biographies on page 12.
Board receives accurate and clear information in a timely manner for Board meetings and on other occasions.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement and the independence of each director is reviewed The Board has established a process to evaluate the performance of the at least annually.
As Gran Ennerfelt has a material notiable interest in Board, its Committees and individual directors.
The evaluation process includes the share capital of the Company see the Report of the directors on pages self-assessment by the Board and key processes include assessments of the: 15 and 16, the Board has concluded that he is not to be considered as relevant contribution of the Board, each Committee, each director and independent of the management of the Company.
In accordance with the the overall composition of the Board: Code, the Board has reviewed the independence of James Wyness, who has served on the Board in excess of nine years.
The review concluded that effectiveness of the leadership of the Company Chairman: James Wyness is independent in character and in the exercise of his effectiveness of relationships and communications with key management judgement, and for these reasons the Board considers him to be independent.
and other stakeholders: and The senior independent director is available to meet shareholders upon quality of information provided to the Board to enable it to perform request if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels its duties.
of the Chairman or executive directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
James Wyness served as the senior Key outputs of the process are used to further improve areas which are independent director during 2005 and will continue to do so until he retires working well and to address any weaknesses.
from the Board at the date of the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Marcus In addition to the evaluation process, the Chairman holds regular meetings Beresford will serve as the senior independent director thereafter.
with the other non-executive directors at which executive directors are not It is the policy of the Board to hold at least six Board meetings a year, present.
The senior independent director also holds, at least annually, a including a meeting to review and approve long term strategy.
There were meeting of the other non-executive directors at which the Chairman is not nine Board meetings during 2005.
Full attendance of the Board is expected present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
at meetings and in 2005 all directors attended except for the following 18 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Directors statement on corporate governance continued The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action against relationship is maintained.
Details of the auditors remuneration for 2005 its directors and certain other ofcers.
The directors also have access to the appear in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
advice and services of the Company Secretary and if necessary, access to further independent advice, at the Companys expense, who advises the Nomination Committee Board and its Committees in respect of their procedures, directors duties Chairman, John Weston and responsibilities, corporate governance and all compliance matters.
The The Nomination Committee comprises all the non-executive directors and appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved the Chief Executive and meets at least once a year.
Committee held three meetings at which there was full attendance by all Committee members.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board appointments the composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors seek election recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions, based by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their on the required role and capabilities which have been specified for the appointment.
They also require that all directors seek re-election at least appointment.
Executive search consultants are used by the Committee to every three years.
assist this process as appropriate.
Board Committees Remuneration Committee Acquisitions and Divestments Committee Chairman, Marcus Beresford Chairman, Anders Gustafsson The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of independent nonThe Acquisitions and Divestments Committee comprises the executive executive directors.
During 2005, the Committee held four meetings at directors and any two non-executive directors.
The Committee is primarily which there was full attendance by all Committee members.
Other directors concerned with the evaluation and approval of any acquisitions and who are not members may attend at the invitation of the Committee divestments delegated to it by the Board.
No director is involved in determining his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Audit Committee Committee has delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for all Chairman, Andrew Given executive directors and the Chairman, whilst the Board is responsible for The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors.
setting the remuneration of the other non-executive directors.
The Code requires that the Audit Committee includes a member who has recent, significant and relevant financial experience and the Board believes Further details on the Remuneration Committee are included in the Report that Andrew Given provides such experience.
on directors remuneration on pages 20 to 26.
During 2005, the Committee held five meetings at which there was full Relations with shareholders attendance by all Committee members.
At all meetings the external The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and auditors, the Chief Executive, the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Head communication with shareholders.
Communication is facilitated by full year of Internal Control and the Head of Financial Reporting are in attendance.
and interim reports issued to shareholders.
Further information and services Other directors who are not members may attend at the invitation of the available to shareholders are described on page 118.
The Committee also meets with the external auditors in private for part of each meeting.
A valuable dialogue has been established with principal institutional investors through a programme of investor relations events throughout the The Committee reviews all published financial statements and post audit year.
During the year, the Company also discussed major remuneration and findings before their presentation to the Board, focusing in particular on long term incentive proposals with principal investors prior to the required accounting policies, compliance, management judgement and estimates.
In addition to a dialogue with principal shareholders, also monitors the Groups internal control and risk management regime the Board also commissions external advisers to undertake investor including the effectiveness of the internal audit function and financial perception reviews, the results of which are reported to the Board.
Any significant findings or identified weaknesses are closely contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, fund managers, examined so that appropriate action can be taken, monitored and reported brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the to the Board.
protection of inside information during such dialogue.
The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of external It is the Companys practice to issue the Notice convening the AGM at least auditors and on the scope, results and cost effectiveness of both audit and 20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate resolutions non-audit work.
The Committee has adopted a policy which prohibits on each substantially separate issue.
All directors are expected to attend the certain types of non-audit work from being performed by the Companys AGM to take any relevant questions.
A report showing the number of proxy auditors, particularly where auditor objectivity and independence would be votes cast for, against and withheld for each resolution is available for at risk.
Other non-audit work which may be provided by the auditor is put shareholders attending the AGM in respect of resolutions which have to tender where considered appropriate.
Prior to any non-audit work being been voted on by a show of hands.
These results are also posted on the awarded to the auditors, consideration is also given to costs, quality of Companys website.
The Audit Committee also assesses the overall objectivity of the auditors services so that an independent professional Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 19 Internal control US corporate governance compliance Introduction As the Company has a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal NYSE, it is subject to certain US legislation.
Following the introduction control, which comprises a process for identifying, evaluating and managing of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the US, NYSE introduced new the risks faced by the Group and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness in corporate governance standards.
Companies which do not have their accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control Turnbull.
primary listing on NYSE such as Spirent are generally permitted to follow The Board confirms that this process was in place throughout the year under home country practice ie the UK Listing Rules and the Code in lieu of review and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Generally, NYSEs corporate governance standards do not primary aim is to operate a system which is appropriate to the business and vary signicantly from those adopted in the UK, however, NYSE rules require which can, over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the any such significant variances to be disclosed.
Following a review of NYSE Groups assets.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the corporate governance standards, the following are considered significant risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable variances to home country practice: and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
NYSE rules provide that nomination committees should consist entirely of independent directors.
Spirents Nomination Committee whose Process constitution is in accordance with the Code includes Anders Gustafsson The Groups Operational Excellence Programme ensures that internal and Gran Ennerfelt, neither of whom are independent: control and risk management processes continue to become embedded in the organisation.
Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal control and NYSE rules provide that nomination corporate governance committees risk monitoring rests with senior management at operating group and are responsible for developing and recommending to the Board a set of business unit level.
corporate governance principles applicable to the Company.
Spirent, however, reserves these responsibilities for the whole Board in accordance Spirent operates corporate internal control and risk management functions with the Code : and which report into the Head of Internal Control.
The functions operate on a global basis and play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing NYSE rules require audit committees to be directly responsible for the assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout appointment and retention of the Companys external auditor.
Spirents the Group to operating management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Audit Committee, however, in accordance with the Code, is responsible The work programme of the functions is focused on the areas perceived to for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and be of greatest risk to the Group and is agreed annually in advance by the retention of the auditor.
In accordance with NYSE requirements, the above summary of significant The Groups system of internal control and risk management comprises an variances in corporate governance practices can be found on the Companys integrated risk management strategy consisting of regular self-assessment website at www.
encompassing all operating units and preparation of a remedial action plan, as appropriate.
This system is coordinated by Spirents corporate internal Pensions governance control and risk management functions.
significant risks are also regularly The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes exist in the UK and reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of the Group and are administered by Trustees which include employees and independent In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the members.
The schemes do not lend money or lease any assets to the Group.
overall internal control environment: Following completion of the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, dened lines on 15 February 2006, the Company made a special contribution of of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: 47.0 million into the UK final salary pension scheme, which substantially funds the scheme.
an Ethics Policy which has been approved by the Board, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and Reporting operations.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing procedures The Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of preparing the whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings: financial statements is set out on page 16.
A report by the auditors, Ernst a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and budgeting & Young LLP, which includes details of their responsibilities in respect of system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed: and the Groups compliance with the Code, is set out on page 27. a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process and post acquisition integration programme.
Review of effectiveness The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the period under review, taking account of material developments since that date using the process set out above.
