Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance Dialogue with Shareholders contained in the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Company has a well established programme of meetings with the Code which are appended to the Listing Rules of the substantial investors and brokers, including presentations in respect Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable of both the interim and annual reports and holding discussions in to shareholders.
respect of future growth and strategy.
The senior non-executive director is available to meet with shareholders.
Statement about applying Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out Board of Directors in section 1 of the Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice The Board of directors at 17 March 2006 comprises ten directors: as reported below.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been five executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Terms of applied is set out below and, in connection with directors reference for full Board approval are in place, which includes, inter alia, remuneration, in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the review of the Groups health and safety performance, the approval of annual and interim results, significant transactions, major capital Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice expenditures, the yearly business plan and budget, the Groups longThe Company has complied generally throughout the year ended term commercial strategy, establishing financial authority limits and 31 December 2005 with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set Group treasury policies.
out in section 1 of the Code.
As Executive Chairman, Alasdair Locke has certain strategic responsibilities often associated with a Chief The Board meets not less than four times a year six meetings were Executive Officer CEO.
The Board believes this to be appropriate since, held during 2005, five of which had a 100% attendance.
The fifth due to his significant shareholding, Alasdair Lockes interests are closely meeting was attended by all directors other than Javier Ferrn.
aligned with those of most other shareholders.
Responsibility for Matters are delegated to the audit and remuneration committees, operational matters rests with the appropriate executive directors.
as appropriate, including those detailed below.
Being a small Board, John Hollis, as the nominated senior non-executive, together with the nomination and appointment of new directors is a matter for Robert Duncan, Javier Ferrn, Isla Smith and George Watkins, provide the Board as a whole.
Javier Ferrn and Isla Smith were recommended strong independent advice.
during 2005 by a specialist executive recruitment company and their The Board consider these five non-executive directors to be independent subsequent appointments to the Board were approved by the as they hold only minimal shareholdings and, other than remuneration whole Board.
for their services as non-executives, have no other related interests The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors in the Group.
Michael Salter is the nominated director responsible commits sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties as a director for Group HSE matters, with Maurice White being responsible for of the Company.
the HSE matters of the KCA DEUTAG Drilling Group of companies.
For some years the Company has purchased insurance to cover its Ross Richardson, a director of KCA DEUTAG Drilling Group Limited, directors and officers against their costs in defending themselves who reports to Maurice White, is responsible for human resource issues.
in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and The management team, comprising the executive directors together in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of with senior managers, meet formally on a quarterly basis to review any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company current business matters and identify any areas of concern.
also indemnifies its directors and officers.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently The Executive Chairman meets once annually with the non-executive or dishonestly.
directors without the executive directors being present.
The nonexecutive directors meet once annually to appraise the Executive Chairmans performance.
Abbot Group plc 33 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance cont Directors have access to independent professional advice at the In addition the Committee meets once a year with the external auditors Companys expense.
In addition all directors have access to the advice without management being present.
It reviews both the independence and services of the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring and objectivity of the external auditors and any non-audit services that Board procedures are complied with.
Any assignment in respect of non-audit services where the level of fees is expected to be in excess of 50,000 has to be approved The appointment of the company secretary is a matter for the Board in advance by the audit committee.
The Committee has put in place and periodically reviews procedures During 2005 the Board, and each of the audit and remuneration to comply with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998, known committees undertook performance evaluations.
Using the Higgs as whistleblowing.
Suggestions of Good Practice as guidance, the individual directors and or committee members initially completed separate questionnaires.
A group compliance officer, who reports to the chairman of the Audit The results were compiled and analysed by the company secretary who Committee, was appointed during 2004, whose role includes internal prepared reports to the Board and each of the committees.
The overall scope of the internal audit programmes are covered included the role of the executive and non-executive directors approved by the Audit Committee, and the results thereof reviewed.
and the Board Board committees, leadership and performance at Remuneration Committee meetings, the effectiveness of the Board Board committees, leadership Non-executive members: George Watkins Chairman, John Hollis, and culture and corporate governance.
The results were then considered Javier Ferrn, all of whom are considered to be independent non by the Board and each of these committees in meetings as specific items executive directors.
George Watkins was appointed Chairman of of business.
The Board and Board committees are comfortable that they the Remuneration Committee on 17 May 2005. are operating effectively.
These exercises will be repeated annually.
The Committees terms of reference are principally concerned with The Executive Chairman also convened a formal meeting of the the remuneration, in all its forms, of main Board executive directors non-executive directors to assess the performance of the Board in and other senior executives of the Group.
the absence of the executive directors.
Amongst other matters when undertaking this exercise, the Executive Chairman had regard to The Committee meets not less than twice a year, four meetings were the principles in the new code relating to evaluation of the collective held during 2005, three of which had a 100% attendance.
The fourth and individual performance of Board members.
The non-executive meeting was attended by all members of the committee other than directors, in the absence of the Executive Chairman, met to assess Javier Ferrn and with the assistance of information provided from the Executive Chairmans effectiveness.
external sources and from sources within the Company ensures that the salary, benefits and pension arrangements of the executive The training needs of both executive and non-executive directors, directors, together with awards under any executive incentive plan, taking into account their individual roles and responsibilities, are share option or other similar schemes are appropriate.
Further periodically reviewed and acted upon as appropriate.
information is contained within the Directors Remuneration Report Audit Committee set out on pages 36 to 40.
Non-executive members: Robert Duncan Chairman, John Hollis, Internal Control George Watkins, all of whom are considered to be independent The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system non-executive directors.
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups Robert Duncan, who has the necessary financial experience, system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate has chaired the Committee since September 2003. the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement The Committees terms of reference are principally concerned with or loss.
accounting matters, financial reporting and internal controls.
The Committee meets not less than three times a year three meetings were held during 2005 which had a 100% attendance to review any significant judgements made in the preparation of the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are submitted to the Board.
It agrees with the external auditors the nature and scope of their work and discusses with them the results thereof.
The Committee has the power to seek external advice as and when required.
34 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance The Group adopts internal controls appropriate to its business and Each business unit and support function is required to produce a risk culture.
An ongoing process has been established for identifying, matrix which identifies the key business risks, the probability of those evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being and is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
The Risk Committee reviews the risk information received and The Board has carried out regular reviews of the effectiveness of brings its own top down contribution and judgement to bear.
The the Groups system of internal controls during 2005, and will ensure resultant findings are brought to the Board in a summarised form that further such reviews are performed on a regular basis.
The Board as well as being fed back to the organisation through management is satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks have been to ensure a common understanding and the implementation of mitigated to an acceptable level.
The key elements of the internal necessary actions.
control system and the processes used by the Board to review the The Risk Committee will continue to hold at least two risk reviews effectiveness of the system include the following: each year in order to ensure that changing circumstances are being monitored and necessary actions being implemented.
Risk Management The Risk Management Committee continues to have responsibility Assurances for co-ordinating the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and The directors derive further assurances from the following internal and reporting progress to the Board on managing the Groups key risks, external controls: including a specific assessment for the purposes of this annual report.
The Committee, whose members are John Hollis Chairman, Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full Peter Milne, Michael Salter and Alec Banyard, regularly reviews and year are regularly reported to the Board with significant variances challenges the effectiveness of the risk process, recognising that the explained and key risks identified: process is iterative, requiring ongoing monitoring and improvement.
Reports from the audit and risk management committees: Both a top-down and a bottom-up approach is adopted in order to achieve a broad view of risk from staff at different levels within Client audits: the organisation.
External audits: and Recognising and managing risk is a process that occurs at all levels internal audits to assess compliance the compliance manager within the Group and is an inherent part of the management culture.
plays a significant role in the risk management process.
The Audit At the operational level, line management is responsible for the Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the remit, authority, process of identification and evaluation of significant risks, assessing resources and scope of work of the compliance function on an the design and operation of suitable internal controls, and the annual basis.
integration of these processes into the day to day operations of the Group.
By order of the Board, Alec W. J. Banyard Secretary, 17 March 2006 Abbot Group plc 35
