Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance 26 The Board is committed to the highest k As there was a change in the Chairmanship contained in his biography on page 30.
Further standards of corporate governance.
It has due of the Board as at 31 December 2004, it was details of changes to Board membership regard to the continuing developments in this considered inappropriate to evaluate the during the year are set out in the Directors field, including policy guidelines which are performance of the retiring Chairman, and Report on page 32. regularly issued and updated by organisations premature to evaluate the performance of such as the ABI, NAPF and PIRC.
The new Chairman did, The Senior Independent Director is the statement sets out the key governance nevertheless, participate in the Board Deputy Chairman, David Payne.
Prior to principles and practices of Scottish and performance evaluation which is explained 1 January 2005, Sir Robert Smith was the Southern Energy.
Evaluation of the Chairmans Senior Independent Director.
on pages 34 to 38 details the remuneration performance will, however, be carried out in policies and practices.
future years, unless similar special Sir Robert Smith, Ren Mdori, and Colin circumstances apply.
Hood come up for re-election at the Combined Code Compliance forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers that this statement on Sir Graeme Odgers, who retired on 18 May Following the performance evaluation how the company complies with the Combined 2004, was considered to be independent, reported on below, it is confirmed that the Code of Corporate Governance provides the and Sir Robert Smith was considered to be performance of the Directors coming up for information necessary to enable shareholders independent prior to his appointment as re-election continues to be effective and they to evaluate how the principles of the Code Chairman on 1 January 2005. remain committed members of the Board.
The company has complied Biographical details of all the Directors, with the provisions of the Combined Code The Board acknowledges its responsibility including those being proposed for rethroughout the year apart from two provisions for ensuring that an adequate system of election, are shown on page 30. which are explained in the following internal control exists which accords with paragraphs.
The Board therefore considers the requirements of the Turnbull Committee Directors Attendance that the company has satisfied its obligations guidance.
In addition to the Annual General Meeting, under the Combined Code.
the Board had nine scheduled meetings Board of Directors during the year and meets more frequently k David Sigsworth retired as an Executive The Board currently consists of a nonas required.
The attendance of Directors at Director on 31 March 2005, and Henry Executive Chairman, four non-Executive Board meetings and meetings of its principal Casley retired as a non-Executive Director Directors and four Executive Directors, thus committees during the year are set out in the on 17 May 2005.
The composition of the achieving an appropriate balance of table below.
Board therefore now comprises a nonindependence and experience.
Executive Chairman, four Executive The Chairman and non-Executive Directors Directors and four independent nonKevin Smith joined the Board on 24 June 2004 met during the year without the executive Executive Directors, which complies with and his appointment was confirmed at the management being present.
The nonthe Combined Code provisions in this Annual General Meeting on 29 July 2004.
The Executive Directors would consider meeting regard.
However, as reported last year, appointment followed a recommendation from without the Chairman if there were concerns as a result of the Combined Code, the Nomination Committee.
which the Chairman had failed to resolve or if Henry Casley was considered not to be there were any issues concerning his independent and accordingly half of the Sir Robert Smith became Chairman on performance.
The Directors are fully briefed Board did not, during the year, comprise 1 January 2005.
The Board considered his in advance of all Board meetings on all independent non-Executive Directors other commitments and positions, particularly matters to be discussed, including regular excluding the Chairman.
his chairmanship of the The Weir Group plc, business and financial reports, and they also and was satisfied that Sir Robert would be receive copies of analysts and brokers able to devote sufficient time to the company.
Details of his other commitments are Directors Attendance Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 9 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting 4 meetings Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Gregor Alexander 99 1 Henry Casley 99 2 Bruce Farmer 6611 Colin Hood 99 Ian Marchant 9911 Ren Mdori 893311 3 Graeme Odgers 1111 David Payne 99111144 Alistair Phillips-Davies 99 Susan Rice 89220133 4 Kevin Smith 781111 Sir Robert Smith 992223 David Sigsworth 99 1. also attended the quarterly meetings of the Safety and Environmental Advisory Committee 2. retired on 31 December 2004 3. retired on 18 May 2004 4. appointed on 24 June 2004 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 27 Board Procedures which covered such subjects as the role of the significant risk such as energy trading and The Board has reserved to it authority in Board, corporate governance, information treasury.
Follow-up reports are also provided respect of areas which are significant to and monitoring of performance.
Interviews to the Committee to ensure appropriate the Groups business.
In particular, the were conducted with each Director and with actions are completed.
The Committee also Board has a schedule of matters specifically the Company Secretary.
A report setting out a reviews the terms of appointment of the reserved to it for decision, which includes summary of the review was considered by the external auditors and partner rotation.
strategic items, Board and Committee Board at its meeting on 9 December 2004. appointments and related governance The conclusion was that there were no The Committee received briefings during the matters, approval of the annual budget, significant issues to address, but some year on new accounting developments, such Company Reports and Financial Statement, improvements were suggested and are being as reports and presentations on the significant contracts, capital expenditure acted upon.
This review will continue to be International Financial Reporting Standards.
This schedule was carried out on an annual basis.
reviewed by the Board at its meetings held The Committee has an established policy on 29 July 2004 and 27 January 2005.
The A review of the performance of each Director for pre-approval of the appointment of the schedule is available on the companys was also carried out by Dr Farmer.
auditors for non-audit services and keeps website scottish-southern.
The Board this issue under continual review.
The policy During the year the Board considered and receives detailed financial and operational is designed to ensure that the independence kept under review its plans on succession for information to allow it to monitor effectively of the external auditors will not be senior management within the Group.
the performance of the key areas of compromised by any non-audit work they the business.
carry out for the Group by specifying work Board Committees from which the auditors are excluded, and The Board has six standing committees, All Directors are required under the Articles other work which may be awarded to them in and the terms of reference of each of Association to stand for re-election at least a competitive tender process.
If the value of Committee were reviewed by the Board at every three years.
Any Director appointed by the work is below a certain level and it is its meeting on 27 January 2005.
The Company the Board during the year is subject to considered in the best interests of the Secretary acts as Secretary of each of the election at the next Annual General Meeting.
company to place the non-audit work with Remuneration and Nomination Committees the auditors, then a competitive tender may and the Deputy Secretary acts as Secretary The Board reviewed the membership of the not be required.
The Committee is confident of the Audit Committee.
The terms of various committees of the Board at its that the objectivity and independence of the reference of the Committees are available meetings held on 29 July 2004 and 9 auditors are not affected by this further work.
December 2004 to take account of the The Committee is satisfied that such work is appointment of a new non-Executive Director best handled by the auditors because of their Audit Committee and retirements from the Board.
An analysis of nonThe Audit Committee currently comprises the audit fees incurred in the year is set out in following non-Executive Directors appointed All of the non-Executive Directors have been note 3 on page 48.
It is clear from by the Board: appointed for fixed terms of three years.
independent surveys that the company continues to award a very low amount of Induction and Training k Ren Mdori Chairman non-audit work to its auditors KPMG Audit Directors receive an appropriate induction k David Payne Plc, compared to most FT-SE100 companies.
course on joining the Board which includes k Susan Rice meetings with senior management, visits to The Chairman of the Committee reports to key sites, and a meeting with the company Sir Graeme Odgers retired as a Director the Board following each meeting of the broker and analysts.
It also covers a review of and Audit Committee Chairman on 18 May Committee on the main areas and subjects all risks facing the Group including key 2004.
Susan Rice joined the Audit Committee the Committee has reviewed such as risk operational issues such as safety and on that date and Ren Mdori became management, internal control matters, environmental performance.
Sir Robert Smith internal audit reports and any issues arising stood down as a Committee member on from its review of Group Accounts.
During the Directors are also able to update their 1 January 2005 on becoming Company year, the Audit Committee met on three knowledge and skills, for example by regular Chairman, and David Payne joined the occasions.
It also met with the external briefings on business issues, presentations Committee on that date.
The by senior management on the full range of policy on fees paid to Audit Committee the Groups activities, and visits to key offices The Board considers that the membership members is explained in the Remuneration and operational sites.
There is an agreed of the Audit Committee as a whole has Report on page 36. procedure for Directors to be able to take sufficient recent and relevant financial independent professional advice in the experience to discharge its functions, and The Committee recommended to the Board furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at that in particular Ren Mdori has recent and that KPMG Audit Plc be proposed for the Groups expense and all Directors have relevant financial experience.
reappointment, having been satisfied with access to the advice and services of the the scope and results of the audit work, their Company Secretary.
There is appropriate The Committee reviews the financial reports objectivity and their independence.
The Board Directors and Officers insurance cover of the Group, considers the results of the endorsed the Committees recommendation.
auditors examination of Group Accounts and During the year the Committee reviewed reviews the programme of work of the the company arrangements by which staff Performance Evaluation Groups internal audit function.
It meets can, in confidence, raise concerns about any A review of the Board and Committee regularly with management and with the possible improprieties in financial and other performance was conducted by the outgoing internal and external auditors to review matters, and proposed certain minor changes Chairman, Dr Farmer, during the year, to the effectiveness of the Groups systems to the policy, which has been reissued within assess the performance of the Board as a of internal control and business risk the Group.
whole and of the Audit, Remuneration and management on behalf of the Board.
A detailed Committee receives reports on a large questionnaire based on externally produced number of different activities within the guidelines was completed by each Director Group, including areas where there could be Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Continued 28 throughout the year and up to the date of Remuneration Committee It also reviewed and recommended certain approval of the accounts.
The Remuneration Committee has delegated changes to the membership of Board responsibility from the Board for formulation of Committees.
Control is maintained through an organisation remuneration policy and approving all aspects structure with clearly defined responsibilities, of Executive Directors remuneration and the Risk Committee authority levels and lines of reporting: the Company Secretarys remuneration, including The Risk Committee comprises Alistair appointment of suitably qualified staff in bonuses and the granting of incentives under Phillips-Davies Chairman, Ian Marchant, specialised business areas: and continuing the companys schemes.
It also reviews and Gregor Alexander and senior managers from investment in high quality information approves the Chairmans fees.
Energy Trading, Electricity Generation and systems.
These methods of control are Finance.
It meets monthly, on average, and subject to periodic review as to their The Remuneration Committee comprises the its purpose is to review and manage risks and implementation and continued suitability.
following non-Executive Directors appointed exposures in Energy Trading, Generation, The main financial risk which the Group could by the Board: interest rates and currency markets.
face is in respect of interest rates and, to a lesser extent, inflation, foreign exchange, k David Payne Chairman Executive Committee liquidity and credit.
The Board reviews and k Kevin Smith The Executive Committee comprises all the agrees policies for addressing each of these k Ren Mdori Executive Directors and other senior Group risks.
The key issue of exposure to energy Executives.
The Chairman is Ian Marchant, prices and volume is addressed by the Risk Sir Robert Smith and Susan Rice were apart from meetings on operational Committee.
members of the Committee up to 1 January performance matters, when it is chaired by 2005, when they stepped down and Kevin Colin Hood.
It meets monthly, on average, and There is relatively little exposure to foreign Smith and Ren Mdori then joined the is responsible for all key management issues currency risk as the United Kingdom is the Committee.
arising from the business of the Group, and Groups main area of operation.
If either fuel the implementation of the strategy as agreed or plant are contracted in foreign currency, The Boards Remuneration Report is set out by the Board.
it is the Groups policy to hedge all material on pages 34 to 38. purchases through the use of foreign Safety and Environmental Advisory currency swaps and forward rate contracts.
Nomination Committee Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the The Safety and Environmental Advisory There is also the risk of mechanical or following Directors the majority of whom Committee comprises Colin Hood process failure in the Groups operations.
are non-Executive Directors appointed by Chairman, Ian Marchant, certain senior Any material failure in the Groups licensed the Board: Group Executives, and one non-Executive operations in electricity generation, Director, who was Henry Casley up to his transmission, distribution and supply and k Sir Robert Smith Chairman retirement on 17 May 2005.
From that date in the supply and storage of gas would be k Ian Marchant Kevin Smith will be a member of the particularly significant.
Operating risk is k David Payne Committee.
The Committee meets quarterly addressed through the Groups focus on k Susan Rice and is responsible for ensuring that safety seeking operational excellence and on k Kevin Smith and environmental policies have been maintaining the highest standards of safety implemented, setting targets and monitoring and quality.
On 24 June 2004 Kevin Smith joined the performance, and promoting awareness of Committee, following the retirement of these issues throughout the Group.
The Group is subject to economic regulation Sir Graeme Odgers on 18 May 2004. and government policy.
There are management Internal Control and Risk Management structures in place to anticipate, influence and On 1 January 2005, Sir Robert Smith joined The Directors have overall responsibility for respond to such developments, and to engage the Committee, following the retirement of the Groups systems of internal control and with the Industry Regulator, government Dr Bruce Farmer on 31 December 2004 who risk management and for monitoring their ministers and officials, and other key bodies.
The purpose of these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of There are established procedures in place for The Committee meets when necessary to failure to achieve business objectives, and regular budgeting and reporting of financial consider the composition and balance of provide reasonable assurance as to the quality information.
The Groups performance is the Board and recommends suitable of management information and to maintain reviewed by the Board and the Executive candidates for appointment as Directors proper control over the income, expenditure, Committee.
Reports include variance analysis and re-appointments to the Board.
During assets and liabilities of the Group.
and projected forecasts of the year compared the year the Nomination Committee met on to approved budgets and non-financial one occasion.
No system of control can, however, provide performance indicators.
absolute assurance against material External search consultants were retained misstatement or loss.
Accordingly, the There are Group policies in place covering to identify and propose the appointment of Directors have regard to what controls, in their judgement, are appropriate to the a wide range of issues and risks such as a new non-Executive Director to the Board.
Groups businesses, to the materiality of the financial authorisations, IT procedures, The Committee identified the skills and risks inherent in these businesses, and to the health, safety and environmental risks experience required, and then considered relative costs and benefits of implementing including climate change, crisis and interviewed a number of candidates.
The Board maintains a management, and policies on human The outcome of this process was a process of identifying, evaluating and resources issues.
The business risks recommendation from the Committee of managing the key commercial, financial, associated with the Groups operations are the appointment of Kevin Smith as a social, ethical, environmental and general regularly assessed by the Board and the Audit non-Executive Director.
risks to the Groups business.
The Risk Committee meets which accords with the Turnbull Committee regularly to review risks and authority levels The Committee recommended to the Board guidance, is regularly reviewed by the Board in key areas of the Groups activities.
the appointment of Sir Robert Smith as and on its behalf by the Audit Committee Chairman, and David Payne as Deputy during the year, and has been in place Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 29 The effectiveness of the Groups systems of The Company website internal control is monitored by the Groups scottish-southern.
co. uk contains financial internal audit department.
Its reports, which and other information about the Group, include where appropriate relevant action shareholder presentations, general business plans, are distributed to senior managers, news, and full details of the shareholder Directors and external auditors.
Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of this system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board of Directors.
The Directors, through the Audit Committee, have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control which covers all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Accounts are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Communication with Shareholders and Major Business Stakeholders The Directors acknowledge the importance of communication with shareholders.
There is a continuing programme of meetings between Executive Directors and major shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The non-Executive Directors receive feedback on these meetings on a regular basis to allow them to form a view of the priorities and concerns of institutional investors.
All Directors were present at the Annual General Meeting in 2004 and all intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting in 2005 to answer shareholders questions.
The Chairman introduces the presentation of the companys interim and preliminary results to analysts and investors and also meets with major shareholders from time to time.
The Senior Independent Director has also met major shareholders since his appointment to that position during the year.
During the year the Board met for a general discussion with key external business stakeholders, in Edinburgh, and plans a similar meeting in London later in 2005.
It was reported last year that the company offers the use of electronic communications to exercise shareholder control rights, and encourages its shareholders to receive communications from the company such as the Annual Report, electronically, thus saving the environmental costs of producing accounts on paper.
In return the company undertakes to plant a native species tree in a designated woodland, also helping to reduce global warming gases.
This programme has continued, and the numbers of shareholders electing to participate is now in excess of 35,000.
Over 10,000 trees have already been planted in Perthshire on behalf of shareholders.
