SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 25 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Group maintains its commitment to achieving The names and biographical details of the Board asked to approve changes to the Companys the highest standards of corporate governance.
Details of the Chairmans Memorandum and Articles of Association at the During the year, the Board continued to review significant other commitments are included in his AGM.
Further details can be found in the Notice its governance arrangements in light of the biographical details.
The Board is satisfied that of AGM.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance these other commitments have not interfered the Code and guidance on audit committees with the performance of his duties as Chairman.
Directors resignations and appointments the Smith Guidance.
The changes made during Since none of the Non-Executive Directors: Bernd Beetz and Tim Howden resigned as Nonthe year ended 31 March 2005 and details of Executive Directors on 20 July 2004.
They were non-compliance are explained below.
Has been an employee of the Company or replaced by Anna Catalano and Susan Murray Group within the last five years: who were appointed Non-Executive Directors The Board Has, or has had within the last three years, with effect from 11 November 2004 and The Group is led by the Board of Directors which a material business relationship with the 1 January 2005 respectively.
Because of the held five scheduled Board meetings during the Company either directly, or as a partner, gap between the resignation of the former year and a further meeting devoted solely to shareholder, director or senior employee Non-Executive Directors and the appointment Group strategy.
The Chairman meets with the of a body that has such a relationship with of their replacements: Non-Executive Directors either before or after the Company: all scheduled Board meetings.
There is an Has received or receives additional For the period from 20 July 2004 to 1 January approved schedule of matters reserved to the remuneration from the Company apart from 2005, the composition of the Board did not Board which includes: a directors fee, participates in the Companys meet the Code requirement that at least half share option or a performance-related pay the Board, excluding the Chairman, should Approval of the Groups long-term objectives scheme, or is a member of the Companys comprise Non-Executive Directors: and commercial strategy: pension scheme: For the period from 20 July 2004 to Approval of the annual operating and capital Has close family ties with any of the Companys 1 November 2004, the composition of expenditure budgets and any material advisers, directors or senior employees: the Audit and Remuneration Committees changes to them: Holds cross-directorships or has significant did not meet the Code requirement that such Review of performance in the light of the links with other directors through involvement committees comprise at least three members, Groups strategy, objectives, business plans in other companies or bodies: all of who should be independent Nonand budgets and ensuring that any necessary Represents a significant shareholder: or Executive Directors: and corrective action is taken: and Has served on the Board for more than nine For the period from 20 July 2004, the Monitoring the system of internal control years from the date of their first election, composition of the Nomination Committee and corporate governance.
has not complied with the Code requirement the Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors that a majority of its members be independent The management of operational matters within to be independent.
Peter Read was appointed Non-Executive Directors.
the Group is delegated to the Executive Team, the Senior Independent Director following the which comprises the Executive Directors and resignation of Tim Howden on 20 July 2004.
Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive certain other senior executives.
A Statement of Division of Responsibilities The Company has arranged appropriate between the Chairman and the Chief Executive The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman: insurance in respect of legal action against has been established, set out in writing and four Non-Executive Directors two of whom Directors.
The arrangements are reviewed approved by the Board.
were appointed during the year to replace two annually.
In addition, it is proposed that the former Non-Executive Directors : and four Company be in a position to take advantage Board balance and independence Executive Directors.
of the Companies Audit, Investigations and Throughout the year, the Chairman and other Community Enterprise Act 2004 which allows Non-Executive Directors were independent of The number of full scheduled Board meetings a company to provide its directors with funds to management.
The Nomination Committee and scheduled committee meetings attended by cover the costs incurred in defending legal considers that the mix of skills and experience each Director during the year was as set out in proceedings brought against him or her.
It is ensures that an effective Board leads the the table below: therefore proposed that the shareholders be Company and that no one Director or group dominates the Boards decision making process.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Information and professional development Board Committee Committee Committee There is an established practice for the calling of Number of meetings 5342 meetings and the pre-circulation of papers.
All Directors and the Board committees have access Attended by: to the services of the Company Secretary.
Any I. Martin 5 5 N A 4 4 2 2 Director or Board committee may take G. Watts 5 5 N A N A 2 2 independent professional advice in furtherance R. Adam 5 5 3 3 4 4 2 2 of his, her or its duties at the Companys expense.
I. Adamson 4 4 N A N A N A A. Catalano 2 2 0 0 2 2 N A The Board receives regular updates on relevant matters of a commercial and regulatory nature.
M. Moran 4 4 N A N A N A The Company arranges for Non-Executive M. Pilkington 5 5 N A N A N A Directors to undertake familiarisation visits to its S. Murray 1 1 0 0 2 2 N A operations in the UK and overseas.
The Company P. Read 5 5 3 3 4 4 2 2 Secretary discusses induction and development B. Beetz 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 requirements with each Director individually.
A T. Howden 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 formal induction process has been developed for any new appointments to the Board.
The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a Board member.
When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance of the relevant meeting.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 26 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Board committees In order to safeguard the independence of ii The Nomination Committee is chaired by The Board has established three committees the external auditors, the Committee has put Peter Read and comprises Ian Martin, Richard to deal with specific aspects of the management into place a detailed policy on the provision Adam and Garry Watts.
Bernd Beetz and Tim and control of the Group.
Each committee of services by the external auditors, which Howden were members of the Committee until has specific terms of reference which can sets out the services which the external they resigned from the Board on 20 July 2004. be viewed on the Companys website at auditors are allowed to carry out on behalf www.
Committee of the Group and those which are prohibited The Nomination Committee makes meetings are usually held on the day before to them.
Under this policy, external auditors recommendations to the Board for the Board meetings.
The committee chairmen report cannot be engaged to provide any of the appointment of replacement or additional at the next Board meeting on the proceedings following services: design or implementation Directors.
In making recommendations, of the committees which they chair.
of IT systems, valuation, internal audit, the Committee takes into account the litigation support, legal, corporate finance, tax balance of skill, knowledge and experience i The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard advice if on a wholly or partly contingent fee of the Board.
The Committee undertook a Adam and comprises Anna Catalano basis, recruitment, executive compensation thorough process to ensure that the new appointed 11 November 2004, Susan advice, accounting and actuarial valuation.
Non-Executive Directors, Anna Catalano Murray appointed 1 January 2005 and Secondments of senior audit staff to the and Susan Murray, had the requisite skills Peter Read.
Bernd Beetz and Tim Howden Company are also prohibited.
and experience to complement and were both members until they resigned as strengthen the Board.
Descriptions of the Non-Executive Directors on 20 July 2004.
At Under this policy, it has been agreed that, required skills and capabilities were prepared the invitation of the Committee Chairman, due to their understanding of the Groups for the roles and external recruitment the following persons attend Audit business and therefore ensuring cost consultants were appointed to assist.
The Committee meetings: efficiency, the external auditors may be Committee also makes recommendations engaged for the following non-audit services, for the reappointment of Directors retiring The Chairman of the Company: for which there is a pre-agreed limit for fees by rotation.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, not including VAT which do not require the Head of Business Assurance and the prior approval from the Committee: audit iii The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Group Financial Controller: related regulatory reporting including interim Peter Read and comprises Richard Adam, Anna The Company Secretary and Assistant review, covenant reporting and other audit Catalano appointed 11 November 2004, Company Secretary: and certificates 100,000, further assurance Ian Martin and Susan Murray appointed The external auditor.
including advice on accounting matters, non- 1 January 2005.
Ian Martin remained a regulatory reporting on internal controls or member of the Committee during a busy The Audit Committee meets with the external corporate governance, due diligence work period when the Board was recruiting new auditor without management present at every and environmental audits 100,000 and Non-Executive Directors and the Committee meeting.
The responsibilities of the Audit tax compliance and tax advisory services was developing a new remuneration package Committee include: 300,000.
The Chairman of the Committee for the Executive Directors and senior may approve urgent engagements not management.
Mr Martin will cease to be a Monitoring the integrity of the Companys covered by these categories subsequently member of the Committee when he resigns financial statements: notifying the Audit Committee at its next as a Director following the AGM.
Further Reviewing the Companys internal financial meeting.
A breakdown of the fees paid to details on the activities of this Committee controls and the Companys internal the external auditor during the year is set can be found in the Remuneration Report control and risk management systems: out on page 46. on pages 29 to 35.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal The principal activities of the Audit Internal control audit function, including the approval of the Committee during the year included: The Board is responsible for the Companys audit plan for the current financial year: and system of internal control and for reviewing the Developing and implementing policy on Review of trading updates issued by systems effectiveness.
The system of internal the engagement of the external auditor the Group: control is designed to manage rather than to supply non-audit services, taking into Review of the Groups half-year and eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business account relevant ethical guidance full-year results: objectives and can provide only reasonable, regarding the provision of non-audit Consideration of the proposed changes and not absolute, assurance against material services by the external audit firm.
in UK GAAP and IFRS: misstatement or loss.
Review of risk management systems The Committee annually appraises the and internal controls: Risk management is integral to all business effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Review of reports from the external operations.
The Board has established a Risk evaluation process includes a questionnaire auditors on their professional and Management Committee.
Its remit is to ensure completed by senior members of the finance regulatory compliance to maintain that the Group operates satisfactory internal function, and the results are reported to and independence and objectivity, including procedures.
This extends to non-financial risks.
The lead rotation of partners and review of nonexternal audit partner is rotated on a five-year audit fees: and basis: consequently a new lead partner will Consideration of external auditors take over in respect of the financial year ending reports to the Committee on the scope 31 March 2007.
For the year ended 31 March and results of the annual audit and 2005 the Committee has concluded that the managements response.
external auditor remains independent and is effective.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that it propose the reappointment of the external auditors to shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 27 Corporate Governance Key elements of the Groups system of internal Board evaluation The Board uses the AGM to communicate control are described as follows: During the year, the Board evaluated its own with investors and encourage their participation.
performance and that of its committees and Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule individual Directors.
The evaluation, which was to shareholders at least 20 days in advance of matters reserved for Board decision: led by the Senior Independent Director SID, of the meeting.
The Company arranges for Regular review of the Companys strategic required Directors to complete a detailed the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration direction: questionnaire which each Director then and Nomination Committees and all Directors Clearly defined organisational structures and discussed individually with the SID.
The results to attend and make themselves available appropriate delegated authorities for the of the evaluation were presented to the Board for questions.
Companys businesses: by the SID and a number of suggestions were Ensuring Company policies and procedures discussed including: The Company proposes separate resolutions for are in place for all areas considered at risk: each separate issue and specifically relating to Regular monitoring of performance to assess A strategic review of the Internal Audit the report and accounts.
The Company ensures progress towards objectives: function.
This review has been completed all proxy votes are counted and indicates the level Procedures for control over capital and a number of recommendations have of proxies on each resolution along with the expenditure and investments: been implemented: abstentions after it has been dealt with on Centralised treasury operations operating Continuing development of corporate a show of hands.
within defined limits: performance measures: Responsibility for individual businesses A more thorough induction process for new Going concern within the Group to meet defined reporting Directors: and After making enquiries, the Directors believe timetables and compliance with Group That the Board should be more visible in the that the Group and the Company have adequate accounting manuals which set out accounting Groups overseas locations.
resources to operate for the foreseeable policies, controls and definitions: future.
For this reason, they continue to Establishment of an effective Internal Audit The evaluation process itself will be reviewed adopt the going concern basis in preparing function providing independent scrutiny prior to the next annual evaluation due in the financial statements.
of internal control systems and risk November 2005. management procedures: Receipt of annual compliance statements Relations with shareholders from all statutory business units within the The Company has an established programme Company, stating compliance with Group of communication with its shareholders.
The policies, identification of business risks and SSL website includes share price information, internal control confirmation: and copies of annual reports, press releases and Assessment of the reporting process presentations to analysts.
Investor relation throughout the Company including visits reports are included in Board papers.
The to selected locations by the Internal Audit Chairman and the SID make themselves function to assist in half year year end close available to meet with major shareholders: for and issue resolution.
example the SID consulted with a number of major shareholders during the development The Board reviews the effectiveness of the of the new remuneration packages for the system of internal control at least annually, and Executive Directors and senior management is confident that it complies with Internal Control: further details can be found in the Remuneration Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Report on pages 29 to 35. the Turnbull Report.
The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Key elements of the review include: Discussions with management on risk areas identified by management and or the audit process: The review of internal and external audit plans: and The review of significant issues arising from the internal and external audits.
