The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day responsibility Introduction for all business of the Group and carries out the agreed strategy and The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders and others for the policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and Chief Executives Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the Board.
governance practices within the Group.
In July 2003, a revised Combined Code the Combined Code was issued for financial years commencing The Directors biographies appear on page 15 of this Annual Report and on or after 1 November 2003. illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring This section of the report discusses Stagecoach Groups corporate an independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
governance arrangements and management structures.
It also includes the disclosures recommended by the Combined Code, and describes how the The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range principles of good corporate governance that are set out in the Combined of financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience that ensures no Code have been applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are one director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
The provided from each of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Directors being present: these meetings generally follow each meeting of the full Board.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, meet without the Compliance with the Combined Code Chairman at least annually.
The Directors believe that the Group currently complies with all of the recommendations contained in the Combined Code, other than that one All Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of of the Non-Executive Directors regarded as independent by the Board the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary does not satisfy all of the criteria suggested by the Combined Code for and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the determining Directors independence.
Groups expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Composition of the Board Board for ensuring the Board procedures are complied with.
The Combined Code suggests that independent Non-Executive Directors should make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
The All Directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual Companys Board comprises nine Directors.
Excluding the Chairman, the General Meeting following their appointment and all Directors are required Board considers there to be four independent Non-Executive Directors.
to stand for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Non-Executive Directors who are not considered by the Board to be independent, or are considered independent but have served on the Board Independent Non-Executive Other for more than nine years submit themselves for annual re-election.
Each Chairman Director Director director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently such training or briefings as are considered necessary to keep abreast of matters Robert Speirs Chairman H affecting their roles as Directors.
The Chairman endeavours to ensure that Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director H all Directors including any newly appointed Directors attend the Iain Duffin Non-Executive Director H Annual General Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Directors.
Janet Morgan Non-Executive Director H Russell Walls Senior Independent The number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
The full Board Non-Executive Director H meets once a year at an operational location and regular verbal Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director H communication is maintained by the Chairman between meetings to Brian Souter Chief Executive H ensure all Directors are well informed on strategic and operational issues.
Graham Eccles Executive Director Rail H The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with Martin Griffiths Finance Director H principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor Ewan Brown, one of the four independent Non-Executive Directors, has performance and risk management procedures of senior management, to served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble ensure that there are proper internal controls in place and to consider Grossart, which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises major acquisitions or disposals.
The schedule of matters reserved for the and understands investor concerns over longer-serving Non-Executive Board was reviewed and updated in April 2005.
The Directors have full Directors but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as and timely access to information with Board papers distributed in independent.
Ewan Browns long association with the Group enables him advance of meetings.
to provide a robust and effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that he has The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under developed.
The Board believes that Ewan Browns length of service review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to enhances his effectiveness as a non-executive director and that he remains improve the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process independent in character and judgement.
In recognition of the factors and better control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to suggested by the Combined Code for determining independence, committees.
Ewan Brown will stand for annual re-election as a director.
In addition, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration Committee and while Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
he does serve on the Audit Committee, the other three Independent Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about Non-Executive Directors also serve on that Committee.
In assessing the running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are independence, the Board takes into account the wider composition and recorded in the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director balance of the Board as a whole.
resigns, the director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any concerns leading to his or her resignation.
Operation of the Board The Board is scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional meetings Operational Management of the Group of the Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the next scheduled meeting.
Group Chief Executive and Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-to-face or in The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are videoconferences with non-board senior management.
There are four properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the principal operating divisions UK Bus, North America, New Zealand and Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the Rail which each comprise a varying number of autonomous business same as the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn units, each headed by a chairman or managing director who is responsible the Boards strategic and policy decisions into actions and to infuse the for the day to day performance of the business unit.
page 18 Stagecoach Group plc A managing director, who reports to the Group Chief Executive, heads the Audit Committee UK Bus division.
A small team of senior management and other specialists The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors, all of who support the UK Bus managing director.
The division is divided into a are considered by the Board to be independent.
It receives reports from all number of principal operating units, each headed by a regional managing of the Groups major business functions including the Risk Assurance director who reports to the managing director of UK Bus.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers director of UK Bus and the other UK Bus Directors meet regularly.
the scope and results of the audit, the interim and annual accounts and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the North America now comprises three regions North East, North Central Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and Canada.
Each region is headed by a chief operating officer, who and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
reports to the Group Chief Executive.
The Audit Committee Report is set out on pages 21 and 22.
The New Zealand business is headed by a chairman, who reports to the Group Chief Executive.
A managing director is responsible for the overall performance of the business unit.
Remuneration Committee A Rail Business Development Committee, comprising the three Group The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board for Executive Directors and other senior management, oversees the ensuring that the Executive Directors remuneration is appropriate to performance and development of the Groups rail business, including attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors of the quality needed to bidding on new rail franchises.
run the Groups business successfully.
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee complies with the principles and provisions The Groups principal train operating interests are its wholly owned of the Combined Code and this is detailed in the remuneration report laid subsidiary, South West Trains, and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group.
The Group Executive Director for Rail chairs the South West Trains Board, and this role is separate from the managing director who is responsible for the performance of the business unit.
However, the former managing Nomination Committee director of South West Trains left the Group in March 2005 and the The Nomination Committee currently comprises two Non-Executive Group Executive Director for Rail is presently undertaking this function Directors one of whom is the Chairman of the Company that the Board until a new managing director is appointed.
The South West Trains Board considers to be independent, and one Executive Director.
The Committee also includes the Groups Company Secretary and three Non-Executive is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and Directors.
A Chairman and Chief Executive head Virgin Rail Group.
Virgin experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting new Rail Group board meetings are attended by the Stagecoach Group appointments.
Executive Director for Rail and the Company Secretary.
Stagecoach is The Nomination Committee Report is set out on page 22. involved in all key decisions at Virgin Rail Group.
Directors and Officers liabilities Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Group maintains Directors and Officers insurance.
In addition, the The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an Group proposes to provide indemnities to its Directors and Officers in light independent Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and during the of recent changes to UK law in this regard.
A resolution will be presented financial year comprised one other independent Non-Executive Director, to the 2005 Annual General Meeting proposing to adopt new Articles of Iain Duffin who joined the Committee in May 2004 and one Executive Association which will, amongst other matters, permit the granting of Director, Graham Eccles.
Ann Gloag joined the Committee from June indemnities to the fullest extent permitted by law.
It was established to discuss health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly to the Board on these matters.
It Performance evaluation has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants.
The Committee met twice during the year and again in June 2005.
The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior Committee are available on the Groups website at Independent Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment http: www.
com sgc investorinfo corpgov of the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman Individual director participation at meetings being present.
The Chairman obtains feedback from each individual The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings and director on the performance of the Board and other Board members meetings of committees by director during the year ended 30 April 2005: this involves the completion of a questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, the Senior Independent Non-Executive director obtains Health, feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Full Safety and Chairman.
A similar process is undertaken to assess the performance of PARTICIPATION Board Audit  Nomination each of the Boards Committees.
IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and No.
Each Director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and each Committee of which he or she is a member.
In the case of the Remuneration Committee, independent consultants have contributed to Robert Speirs 6 n a n a n a 1 the assessment of the Committees effectiveness.
Brian Souter 6 n a n a n a 1 The assessment of effectiveness included: Martin Griffiths 6 n a n a n a n a.
Consideration of the effectiveness of the formal Board and Committee Graham Eccles 6 n a n a 2 n a meetings: Ewan Brown 6 3 n a n a 1.
The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management Iain Duffin 6 3 4 2 n a of the Group: Ann Gloag 6 n a n a n a n a.
The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to Janet Morgan 6 3 4 2 n a the Board and its Committees: Russell Walls 6 3 4 n a n a.
The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters:.
The composition of the Board and its Committees.
Relations with shareholders The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects in all of its concluded that overall the Board and the Committees continue to operate in an effective and constructive manner.
Stagecoach Group plc page 19 Corporate governance The Board considers communications with shareholders, whether large or The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal small, external or employee, to be extremely important.
The Group holds control and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains periodic meetings with representatives of major institutional shareholders, ultimate responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important other fund managers and representatives of the financial press.
that these processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director of each operating unit is responsible for the internal The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of control framework within that unit.
The Audit Committee meets with the full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors representatives of operating units because this is one way for an in the UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after independent and objective appraisal of risk management to be obtained.
presentations to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior known.
During the year, written responses are given to letters or e-mails management is ongoing and has been considered at several levels with received from shareholders and all shareholders receive interim and annual each division maintaining a separate risk profile.
reports or the summary annual report.
The Group Risk Assurance function, which is outsourced to and managed Each shareholder is given the opportunity to elect which document they by Deloitte, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in monitoring require and this allows our reporting to be more focused towards the risk management processes to determine whether internal controls are needs of individual shareholders.
Information is also available on the effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based approach is Groups website www.
applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The monitoring The Group holds periodic meetings with its principal shareholders.
The process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and improving Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through where possible the Groups full risk management process in the context of briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the the Groups overall goals.
Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are shareholders where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to resolve concerns.
recommended by the external auditors.
Private and institutional shareholders are welcome to attend and Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit function.
participate at the Annual General Meeting and any Extraordinary General The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin Meetings.
The Group aims to ensure that all Directors, including the Rail Group, but the Group maintains an overview of the business risk chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety and management through representation on the board and audit committee.
Environmental Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to Stagecoach management representatives also meet regularly with answer questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity representatives of Virgin Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture for shareholders to question the Chairman and other Directors on a variety follows appropriate risk management procedures.
of topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on all the Groups principal business activities.
Notice of the The Groups Audit Committee reviews the financial statements of Virgin Annual General Meeting and related papers are distributed to shareholders Rail Group together with the minutes, external audit presentations, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
It is the Companys policy to management presentations and internal audit presentations from the audit propose a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each committee meetings.
Resolutions are proposed annually in respect of the Report and Accounts, and the Remuneration Report.
At each Internal control Annual General Meeting, the Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, and the The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, number of abstentions.
Details of the proxy votes are also published on enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness the Groups website at http: www.
com sgc investorinfo of the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The Company and its Registrars have established procedures to procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: ensure that votes casts are properly received and recorded.. an annual budgeting process with regular re-forecasting of out-turn, identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a Risk management panel consisting of Executive Directors and senior group managers by The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and each business units management team, before being approved by the managing the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the Board prior to the commencement of the financial year.
process, and the Board considers that the process accords with the.
reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing profit and Turnbull Guidance on internal control.
loss, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part management monitor the results throughout each financial year.
of business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in.
a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and some cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
identify and manage acceptable levels of risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of.
third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas internal control, and reviewing its effectiveness.
Although the system can where significant inherent risks have been identified, such as treasury provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of material management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and competition misstatement or loss, the Groups system is designed to provide the policy.
Directors with reasonable assurance that any risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
a decentralised organisation structure with clearly defined limits of established an ongoing process of risk review and certification by the responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient business heads of each operating unit.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
control over the activities of joint ventures and associated undertakings identified business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its through Stagecoach representation on the boards of the entities potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers together with regular contact between Stagecoach management and whether it is appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully the management of the relevant entities.
controlled or mitigated by the Group.. a performance management appraisal system covers the Groups senior The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the management and is based on agreed financial and other performance businesses during the financial year ended 30 April 2005 and up to the objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
date of the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment and such.
significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank balances reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit are reviewed on a daily basis, cash flows are compared to budget on a Committee.
The Board is satisfied that the processes are in place to four-weekly basis and any material variances between earnings and ensure that risks are mitigated to an acceptable level.
expected cash flows are investigated.
