Corporate governance The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance having other significant commitments.
Potential candidates will be asked process on an annual basis.
to disclose their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any significant changes in their commitments as they Speaking Up Policy arise.
The Committee will identify suitable candidates and make proposals The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Speaking Up policy, which for each appointment, although final appointments are the responsibility provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the of the Board as a whole.
interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Committee ensures Non-Executive Directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes appointments, the letter of appointment will set out the expected time commitment.
a particular interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
No Director of the Company is a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at http: www.
RUSSELL WALLS Succession Planning Arrangements Chairman of the Audit Committee The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the 22 June 2005 longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to Nomination Committee Report develop in some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of In line with best practice, the Nomination Committee has decided to developing good managers who have progressed to take on senior present a separate annual report.
This report relates to the financial year positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment ended 30 April 2005. programme, and some of the graduates recruited have went on to become Managing Directors of individual business units.
Composition of Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises two Non-Executive The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination Directors that the Board considers to be independent, Robert Speirs and Committee and the Board seeks to identify new Directors and senior Ewan Brown who acts as Chairman and one Executive Director, managers to ensure succession of Directors is conducted in a managed Brian Souter.
The Committee may also include, by invitation, the other way, without significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
Operation of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggest new appointments.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a EWAN BROWN description of the role and the required attributes for each particular Chairman of the Nomination Committee appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate 22 June 2005 of the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on Directors page 22 Stagecoach Group plc
