regular Board reporting on specific matters including updated key risks, The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, foreign exchange, Groups website at http: www.
com sgc investorinfo corpgov interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making including due diligence requirements where material businesses are recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and being acquired or divested.
remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to.
each operating unit maintains controls and procedures appropriate to the external auditors.
A written certificate is provided at least annually by the management of each business confirming that they have reviewed the Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
As might Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship be expected, a number of minor internal control weaknesses were between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: identified by this procedure, all of which have been, or are being, addressed.
None of the weaknesses have resulted in any material losses,.
the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the approval of any other fees in excess of 50,000 cumulative which are Groups Annual Report.
This process is considered to be an integral part payable to auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: of the maintenance and improvement of our risk management.
the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: procedures.. the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which.
a commitment to best practice in external reporting.
have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit.
a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and and which is subject to regular monitoring.. discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
Pension schemes The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate process on an annual basis.
from the assets of the Group and are invested with independent fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors five are employee representatives nominated by the members on a performance during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The other trustees include senior Group and UK Bus The audit fees of 0.6m for  LLP and non-audit executives.
The chairman of the trustees of the principal UK scheme is an related fees of 0.4m were discussed by the Audit Committee and elected member of the National Association of Pension Funds investment considered appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The auditors and actuaries of the principal UK pension schemes are both independent of the Group.
Similar arrangements are in place for the level and scope of non-audit services does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from using the South West Trains, Island Line, Sheffield Supertram and two Virgin Rail Group sections of the Railways Pension Scheme.
 professional advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used where LLP does not conduct the external audit of any significant pension schemes in which the Group participates.
the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
During the financial year ended 30 April 2005, a Pensions Oversight Committee was established.
This Committee is chaired by a Non-Executive Policy on the Auditors Providing Non-Audit Services Director and also comprises one Executive Director and other members of Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: senior management.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters affecting the Groups pension schemes from the.
Audit related services These are services that the auditors must perspective of the Company, and it will consider, develop and propose undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may arise.
Such services include formalities relating to bank financing, Committee reviews pension scheme funding issues and implications, regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would investment strategy, and the related administration for all of the employee generally provide all such services, subject to approval by the Audit pension schemes of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Committee.. Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills Audit Committee Report and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of In line with best practice, the Audit Committee has decided to present a advisors for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best separate annual report.
This report relates to the financial year ended suited to the work being undertaken, subject to approval by the Audit 30 April 2005.
Committee.. General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select an Composition of the Audit Committee advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors, all of who the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for are considered by the Board to be independent.
At the present time, its general consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to members are Russell Walls Chairman, Janet Morgan, Ewan Brown and the work being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide Iain Duffin.
Of the members of the Audit Committee, Russell Walls is a general consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the former Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company and Ewan Brown is auditors are satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to currently the chairman of an audit committee of a FTSE 100 company.
a threat to the audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
The Committee has significant recent and relevant financial expertise and is appropriately qualified to undertake its duties in an effective manner.
Review of Risk Assurance Function The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making Operation of the Audit Committee recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has met a remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
It receives reports from all of the Groups There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and major business functions including the Risk Assurance Function internal the Audit Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
audit, which is outsourced and managed by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the scope and results of The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship the audit, the interim and annual accounts and the accounting and between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes internal control systems in place throughout the Group.
The Audit a consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the internal and external auditors.
the context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
