Corporate Governance The policy of the Board has been to manage the affairs of the responsible for risk management and for the development of Group Company in accordance with the relevant principles of the Combined policies in areas such as health and safety, Directors and senior Code on Corporate Governance the Code as annexed to the Listing management remuneration, environmental, social and ethical issues.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This statement together with the Remuneration Report set out on pages 15 to 20, describe how the The Board delegates specic responsibilities to Committees of the Company has applied the Code.
Board, as referred to below.
Each of these Committees has clear written Terms of Reference as described below.
The minutes of Committee The Board Meetings are circulated to all Directors.
All Committees are provided The Board is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved to the Board, including the Groups strategic plans, acquisitions or disposals, capital expenditure, Attendance all nancing matters, the annual operating plan and budget and The Board meets regularly and details of attendances by individual the Groups operating and financial performance.
In addition, it is Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year ended 1 May 2005 are as follows: Table of attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Board AGM Committee Committee Committee Meetings held 6 1 3 5 3 Meetings attended: Lord Baker of Dorking 4 1 2 5 2 C. Child 3 P. J. Collis 1 A. M. Riddy 6 1 Lord Steinberg 4 1 2 R. Waddington 5 3 5 3 T. Weller 6 1 3 4 3 J. S. Whittaker 6 1 R. Wiper 6 1 2 A further committee of the Board also met twice during the year.
This table reects the fact that Paul Collis and Colin Child served as Directors for part of the year only.
Directors Meeting and that no Director serves for more than three years The Board aims to maintain a balance of Executive and Non-Executive without being proposed for re-election at an Annual General Meeting.
During the financial year there were eight Directors: Biographical details of Directors being submitted for appointment or the Non-Executive Chairman, Lord Steinberg, the Chief Executive, re-election are set out in the notes accompanying the relevant notice Bob Wiper, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Robert of meeting.
Waddington, three other Executive Directors and two other NonExecutive Directors.
Following the resignation of John Whittaker on Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three 7 July 2005, the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises three years, subject to re-appointment under the Companys Articles of Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors representing Association and subject to Companies Acts provisions relating to the a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors removal of a Director.
The Board will explain to shareholders in the biographies are set out on pages 12 and 13 and illustrate the Directors papers accompanying a resolution to elect or re-elect a Non-Executive wide and diverse range of business experience and expertise, which Director why they believe an individual should be elected or re-elected.
should ensure an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Chairman will confirm to shareholders when proposing re-election The Board initially appoints all new Directors, having first considered that, following formal evaluation, the individuals performance continues recommendations made to it by the Nomination Committee.
to be effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment to the Following such appointment, the Director is required to retire and seek role.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive Director will be election at the next Annual General Meeting.
There is a process of subject to particularly rigorous review and will take into account the rotation, which ensures that approximately one third of all Directors need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
are required to retire and seek re-election at each Annual General 20 21 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report Corporate Governance continued The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief meet their individual needs to update and refresh their skills and Executive has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Regular briengs are given to all Directors on relevant The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Board.
The Chief issues, including changes to legislation and corporate governance Executive is responsible for running the Groups business and for requirements.
implementing Board strategy and policy.
Board Evaluation In accordance with the Code, the Chairman has held meetings with During the year, the Committees of the Board completed an the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being effectiveness evaluation exercise.
This was an internal self-evaluation present during the year to 1 May 2005. exercise using a detailed questionnaire completed by all members of each committee in relation to the key areas of the Committees Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors accountability and the arrangements in place to enable effective meet separately without the Chairman present.
The results of this exercise were issued to and discussed by the Board.
Specic recommendations were agreed and Independence is a key issue for the Board.
The Board has determined are being implemented and progress with implementation will be that Robert Waddington, Lord Baker and Tim Weller can be considered monitored and reported.
to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Audit Committee The Company has arranged an appropriate level of insurance cover in The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Waddington.
The other respect of legal action against its Directors.
members are Lord Baker of Dorking and Tim Weller who has relevant and recent financial experience.
The Committee meets to review the Directors have a right to ensure that any concerns they have, which Groups interim and annual financial statements before their submission cannot be resolved, about the running of the Group or a proposed to the Board, to review the appropriateness and effectiveness of the action, are recorded in the Board minutes.
In addition, upon resignation, Groups internal controls, accounting policies and procedures and a Non-Executive Director will be asked to provide a written statement to financial reporting and also to assess the effectiveness of the external the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if they have any such concerns.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding If necessary, Directors are free to take independent professional advice the appointment of the external auditors.
The Committee has a policy at the Groups expense.
regarding external auditor independence and the provision of nonaudit services by the external auditors.
The Groups policy is that, where The Senior Independent Director, Robert Waddington, is available to appropriate, non-audit related work is put out to competitive tender.
shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal Details of the external audit fees for the year are given in note 2 on channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed page 39. to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Group has an internal audit function which regularly reports to Copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of the Nonthe Committee.
Executive Directors are available on request from the Company Secretary and at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Finance Director, other Executive Directors and senior management, the Groups external auditors and internal audit, Company Secretary as appropriate, attend meetings of the Committee.
Biographical details of the Company Secretary are set out on page 13.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are Secretary who acts as secretary to the Board, the Audit Committee, reviewed annually and represent current best practice.
A copy of the the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, the terms of reference is available on request to the Company Secretary Banking and Finance Committee and the Donations Committee.
and is published on the Companys website, www.
The Company Secretary seeks to ensure that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Remuneration Committee She has responsibility for all matters relating to the Board, its Committees The Remuneration Committee comprised entirely of independent and governance across the Group.
The Company Secretary may be Non-Executive Directors throughout the year.
The Committee is removed only with the approval of the Board.
chaired by Lord Baker of Dorking and Robert Waddington and Tim Weller are members.
The Committee meets as required during the year Induction and Training to review the Companys general policy on executive remuneration, Appropriate training and brieng is provided to all Directors the application of the policy to the remuneration and benets of the on appointment to the Board, taking into account their individual Executive Directors and to recommend and monitor the level and qualications and experience.
Ongoing training is also available to structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Remuneration Report set out on pages 15 to 20, contains a and encourage their participation.
The Board receives a report more detailed description of the Companys policies and procedures giving details of comment and feedback received from analysts and for executive remuneration.
The Chief Executive and the Company institutional investors.
The Companys website, which contains investor Secretary, as appropriate, attend meetings of the Committee but they relations information, can be found at www.
com do not participate in discussions about their own remuneration.
and further shareholder information can be found at the end of the Annual Report.
The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are available on request to the Company Secretary and are published on Accountability and Audit the Companys website, www.
Through the detailed reviews of the performance and financial position in the Chief Executives Operating Review pages 4 to 9 and Nomination Committee Financial Review pages 10 and 11 together with the Directors Report The Nomination Committee is chaired by Tim Weller.
All of the other page 14 the Board seeks to present a clear and balanced assessment Non-Executive Directors are members, along with the Chairman and of the Groups position and prospects.
The Directors responsibility Chief Executive.
The Committee meets as required to select and for the Financial Statements is described on page 27. propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as Directors.
The Committee would normally expect to Risk Management use the services of an external search consultant to help in the search The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for and selection of external candidates.
As part of its function, the Committee considers the composition of An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the the Board, the demands made on the Board and its Committees and significant risks faced by the Group, has remained in place throughout the requirements of good corporate governance.
the financial year and up to the approval date of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The process is subject to regular review by Before a Non-Executive Director is proposed for re-election by the Board directly and via the Audit Committee.
This accords with the shareholders, the Committee meets to consider whether an individuals Turnbull guidance on Internal Control for Directors.
performance continues to be effective and whether they demonstrate a commitment to the role.
The Committee met during the year to Although the Boards overall responsibility for internal control is review the performance of the Chairman.
recognised, the positive contribution made by senior management to the establishment and ongoing development of risk management The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are within the Group is acknowledged.
available on request to the Company Secretary and are published on the Companys website, www.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, the Board has taken into consideration a number of key Banking and Finance Committee elements which include: financial and investment controls: The Banking and Finance Committee is chaired by Robert Waddington.
management reporting and the various Board Committees.
The other members are Tim Weller, the Chairman and the Finance Director.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board The following illustrates how the risk management process and the regarding banking and treasury policy.
system of internal control operated during the year ended 1 May 2005: Donations Committee Group internal audit the Group Internal Audit department and The Donations Committee is chaired by Lord Baker of Dorking.
All of divisional Security and Compliance departments report routinely to the other Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive the Audit Committee.
The Committee meets not less than twice a year and considers and oversees charitable donations made by the Company.
Audit Committee the role of the Audit Committee includes the review, update and approval of the annual internal audit plan: Relations with Shareholders provision of direction to the internal audit function, external auditors The Company encourages a dialogue with both its institutional and and management in the review of internal controls: alerting the Board private investors and responds quickly to all queries received orally or to any emerging issues and consideration of the draft papers prepared in writing.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk management with analysts and institutional shareholders.
Robert Waddington, as procedures adopted by the Company prior to being submitted to Senior Independent Director, attended a number of shareholder meetings the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the in January 2005.
At the Annual General Meeting all Directors, including arrangement by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns Committee chairmen, are available for questions and the Board uses about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors other matters.
22 23 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report Corporate Governance continued Divisional and Group functional key risks to enable consistent and focused monitoring, reporting, evaluation and management of significant Group risks, the key risks for the Group functions and major operational divisions of the business have been identied and, going forward, will constitute the basis for a revised reporting process.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group Policies and Procedures Adopted policies are available to employees and management as appropriate via handbooks, manuals and the internet.
Corporate Governance Compliance Statement The Company has complied throughout the financial year with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance except as follows: Board Balance A.
At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Companys current position is explained on page 21.
