Corporate governance Tate & Lyle is committed to high standards Board of Directors proceedings and other claims against its of corporate governance, business integrity The Board is collectively responsible for directors.
and professionalism in the way it conducts promoting the success of the Company and The attendance of individual directors at its activities.
for providing entrepreneurial leadership within Board meetings held during the year which In accordance with the Listing Rules of a framework of prudent and effective controls they were eligible to attend is shown in the the UK Listing Authority, the Company is that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
required to state whether it has complied It sets the Companys strategic aims and Meetings attended with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the ensures that necessary financial and human Combined Code on Corporate Governance resources are in place to enable these Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 issued by the Financial Reporting Council objectives to be met and undertakes reviews Richard Delbridge 8 8 in July 2003 the Code and, where the of management performance.
In addition, Iain Ferguson 8 8 provisions have not been complied with, the Board sets the Companys values and David Fish until 30 September 2004 2 3 to provide an explanation.
The Company standards and ensures that its obligations to Simon Gifford 8 8 is also required to explain how it has applied its shareholders and others are understood Evert Henkes 8 8 the principles set out in the Code.
Keith Hopkins until 29 July 2004 2 2 The paragraphs below, together with the The Board has a formal schedule of matters Mary Jo Jacobi until 29 July 2004 2 2 Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 reserved to it for its decision.
This schedule, Stanley Musesengwa 8 8 to 56, provide details of how the Company which is reviewed annually, includes approval Kai Nargolwala from 1 December 2004 4 4 applies the principles and complies with the of: Larry Pillard until 31 December 2004 5 5 provisions of the Code.
Carole Piwnica 8 8 Group strategy: Stuart Strathdee 8 8 Compliance with the Combined Code annual budget and operating plans: Allen Yurko 8 8 Throughout the year ended 31 March 2005, major capital expenditure, acquisitions the Company was in compliance with the or divestments: Chairman and Chief Executive provisions and applied the principles of the annual and interim financial results: The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Code except as follows: safety and environmental policies: are separated and their responsibilities are appointments to the Board and as clearly established, set out in writing and As a consequence of changes to the Company Secretary: agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is composition of the Board described in the senior management structure, responsible for the leadership and workings of Directors Report on page 40, from the date responsibilities and succession plans: the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, and of the Annual General Meeting AGM on treasury policies: the Chief Executive for the running of the 29 July 2004 to the end of the financial system of internal control and risk business and the implementation of Board year, at least half the Board, excluding the management: and strategy and policy.
Chairman, did not consist of independent dividend policy.
The other significant current commitments non-executive directors.
Following the of the Chairman, Sir David Lees, are set out appointment of Dr Barry Zoumas as an Other specific responsibilities are delegated in his biography on page 38.
He retired as independent non-executive director from to Board Committees which operate within Chairman of GKN plc in May 2004 and the 1 May 2005, the Boards composition has clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of Board is satisfied that his remaining been in compliance with the Code.
the responsibilities delegated to the Board commitments do not unduly restrict him As a consequence of changes to the Committees are given on pages 43 to 45. from carrying out his duties effectively.
composition of the Board described in the The Board meets at least eight times each Directors Report on page 40, from the date year.
Two meetings take place at an operating Board balance and independence of the AGM on 29 July 2004 to 31 December subsidiary or joint venture company.
Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 2004, a majority of the members of the meetings are structured to allow open who has no executive responsibilities, four Nominations Committee were not discussion and all directors participate in executive directors and six non-executive independent non-executive directors.
discussing the strategy, trading and financial directors.
Whilst by the end of the financial year, the performance and risk management of the With the exception of the Chairman, notice periods of the service contracts of all Company.
All substantive agenda items have who is presumed under the Code not to be executive directors were set at 52 weeks, comprehensive briefing papers which are independent, the Board considers all the nonand accordingly in compliance with the circulated five days before the meeting.
executive directors to be independent other Code, during the year the service contracts Members of executive management attend than Carole Piwnica who is a former Chairman of two executive directors did not have Board meetings and make presentations to of Amylum Europe N. V. and is paid by the notice periods set at one year or less.
As the Board on a regular basis.
Group for consultancy services which she stated in last years Annual Report, the The Company Secretary is responsible for performs in addition to her duties as a nonnotice period of two executive directors ensuring that Board procedures are followed executive director.
Details of the terms of her contracts, which at 31 March 2004 was and that applicable rules and regulations are consultancy agreement are given in the 104 weeks, reduced progressively during complied with.
All directors have access to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 51. the year so that by 31 March 2005 the advice and services of the Company Secretary In terms of the Code, at the date of this notice period for both contracts was 52 whose appointment or removal is a matter Annual Report, the Board currently comprises weeks.
Further information about executive for the Board as a whole.
In addition, there is five independent directors, five nondirectors service contracts can be found a formal procedure in place whereby, in the independent directors including the four on page 50. furtherance of their duties, directors can obtain executive directors and the Chairman.
independent professional advice, if necessary, Richard Delbridge is the Senior Independent At the date of this Annual Report, the Board at the Companys expense.
Director and is available to shareholders if they considers that the Company is in compliance The Company maintains appropriate have any issues or concerns.
with the applicable provisions of the Code.
insurance cover in respect of legal The non-executive directors have a wide 42 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 range of skills and knowledge and combine Performance evaluation wished to raise.
The outcome of both broad business and commercial experience During the year, the Board carried out an appraisals were highly positive.
with independent and objective judgement.
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board The Audit, Nominations and Remuneration The names and biographical details of the and its Committees.
As in previous years, this Committees each also held an evaluation of current directors are given on page 38. was an internal exercise led by the Chairman.
their work and effectiveness during the year, The Board is aware of the other The 2005 evaluation was the second stage the results of which were reported to the commitments of its non-executive directors in a two-year process agreed by the Board Board by the respective Committee Chairmen.
and is satisfied that these do not conflict with in 2004 to ensure that the annual evaluation The reviews concluded that each Committee their duties as directors of the Company.
process remains fresh and relevant.
The first was operating in an effective manner.
Changes to the commitments of the nonstep of this process, undertaken in 2004, executive directors are reported to the Board.
required each director to complete a detailed Shareholder communications The terms and conditions of appointment questionnaire covering a range of issues such The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director of the non-executive directors are available as Board and Committee composition, and Head of Investor Relations, with the for inspection at the Companys registered arrangements for and content of meetings, support of the Chairman, maintain a regular office and will be available for inspection access to information, administrative programme of visits and presentations to at the AGM.
procedures, induction programmes, director major institutional shareholders.
A report of training and visits to operating sites.
The results these discussions and meetings is provided to Re-election of directors of the evaluation exercise were considered by the Board each time it meets.
In addition, all The Companys Articles of Association require the Board and recommendations were made directors receive copies of reports issued by the re-election of one-third of the Board and implemented.
The recommendations analysts and brokers on the Company.
During or the nearest whole number below one-third included the introduction of an annual full day the year, the Board received a briefing from at each AGM.
All directors are subject to meeting in addition to the regular Board the Companys broker on investor perceptions re-election at least once every three years.
meetings devoted to the discussion of the of Tate & Lyle.
Any directors appointed by the Board since Groups strategy.
The Senior Independent Director and the the last AGM must stand for re-election at the The second stage of the process, non-executive directors are encouraged to next AGM.
Any non-executive directors who undertaken in 2005, involved the Chairman attend presentations to analysts and have served for more than nine years will be holding one-to-one performance evaluation shareholders, and in particular the subject to annual re-election.
meetings with each individual director and the presentations that take place on the The names of the directors retiring and Company Secretary.
A number of assessment publication of the Companys interim and standing for re-election at the 2005 AGM are areas, both on an individual and a collective annual results.
Further details are given in basis, were identified by the Chairman in The Chairman provides feedback to the the letter from the Chairman to shareholders in advance of these meetings which were used Board on any matters raised with him by relation to the 2005 AGM.
as the framework for the discussions.
effectiveness of the changes implemented to Some 250 shareholders normally attend Information, induction and professional the Boards processes and procedures the AGM and are invited to ask questions development following the evaluation in 2004 were one of the and meet informally with the directors after The Chairman, with the assistance of the areas discussed.
The Chairman summarised the formal proceedings have ended.
The level Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring the main themes and comments arising from of proxy votes lodged for and against each that the directors receive accurate, timely and the meetings and presented a report to the resolution, together with the level of clear information on all relevant matters.
The Board concluded abstentions, are announced at the AGM On appointment to the Board, directors that it was operating in an effective manner following each vote on a show of hands.
receive a comprehensive induction programme but identified some areas where further The Company aims to present a balanced which includes site visits and meetings with improvements could be made such as to the and understandable assessment in all its senior management across the businesses balance of strategic and operational information reports to the public and to regulators.
New directors also provided to the Board.
Key announcements, financial reports and receive a pack of background reading about With regard to the performance of individual other information about the Group can be the Group and details of Board procedures directors, following the evaluation process, found on the Companys website at and other governance-related matters.
the Chairman concluded that each director www.
Major shareholders have been offered the continues to make an effective contribution to opportunity to meet new non-executive the work of the Board, is well prepared and Board Committees directors as part of their induction programme.
informed concerning items to be considered by There are four main Board Committees: Training and updates on particular issues the Board, has a good understanding of the Chairmans: Nominations: Remuneration: are arranged for directors, as appropriate, Companys businesses and their commitment and Audit.
The terms of reference of each on an ongoing basis taking into account to the role remains strong evidenced by the Committee are reviewed annually by the their individual qualifications and experience.
Board and Committee attendance records set Board, are available upon request from the The Company Secretary also helps directors out in this report.
Company Secretary and can also be found on to undertake any other professional During the year, the non-executive the Groups website at www.
development they consider necessary or directors met together without the Chairman The Committees are provided with sufficient desirable to assist them in carrying out their present, under the chairmanship of the resources to undertake their duties through duties as directors or as members of the Senior Independent Director, to appraise access to the services of the Company relevant Board Committees.
During the year, the Chairmans performance the Senior Secretariat and, if deemed necessary, can this included attendance by directors at Independent Director having first sought the obtain independent professional advice at the external training sessions and seminars run by views of the executive directors.
independent organisations on accounting and the Chairman held a private meeting with the The Company Secretary, Robert Gibber, governance-related matters.
non-executive directors to appraise the Chief is Secretary to each Board Committee.
Executives performance and to address any other matters the non-executive directors Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 43 Corporate governance continued Chairmans Committee The main responsibilities of the Committee Additionally, the Committee approves the The members of the Committee during are: base salary, long-term incentives and benefits the year, together with a record of their of members of the Group Operational attendance at meetings which they were to review the size and composition of the Committee.
In consultation with the Chief eligible to attend, are set out below.
Board including the planning of succession Executive, the Committee also determines to the Board and the leadership needs of the remuneration of the Chairman.
Meetings attended the Group generally: The remuneration of the non-executive Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 to make recommendations to the Board directors is determined by the Board excluding Richard Delbridge 8 8 on candidates for appointment as executive the non-executive directors.
Iain Ferguson 8 8 and non-executive directors and as The Directors Remuneration Report on David Fish until 30 September 2004 2 3 Company Secretary, taking into account the pages 47 to 56 provides more information on Evert Henkes 8 8 balance of the Board and the required blend the Companys executive remuneration policy Keith Hopkins until 29 July 2004 2 2 of skills and experience: and practice, and on the working of the Mary Jo Jacobi until 29 July 2004 2 2 to make recommendations to the Board Committee.
Kai Nargolwala from 1 December 2004 4 4 on the appropriate processes for the Larry Pillard until 31 December 2004 5 5 appointment of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Carole Piwnica 8 8 Board: and The members of the Committee during the Allen Yurko 8 8 to make recommendations to the Board on year, together with a record of their attendance the nomination of the Senior Independent at meetings which they were eligible to attend, Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed as a member Director, the re-appointment of nonare set out below.
of the Committee from 31 May 2005. executive directors upon the expiry of their Meetings attended The Committee comprises the nonterm of office and the proposed re-election executive directors and the Chief Executive of directors retiring by rotation at the AGM.
Richard Delbridge, Chairman 4 4 under the chairmanship of the Chairman of David Fish until 30 September 2004 2 2 the Board.
The Committee meets before each During the year and to the date of this Evert Henkes 4 4 Board meeting, as required, and provides Annual Report, two non-executive directors, Keith Hopkins until 29 July 2004 2 2 an opportunity for the Chairman and Chief Kai Nargolwala and Dr Barry Zoumas, were Mary Jo Jacobi until 29 July 2004 1 2 Executive to brief and obtain the views of the appointed to the Board.
In the case of each Kai Nargolwala from 1 December 2004 1 1 non-executive directors on specific issues.
appointment, the Committee first considered Allen Yurko 4 4 the particular skills, knowledge and experience Nominations Committee that would most benefit the Board.
External Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed as a member The members of the Committee during the recruitment consultants were engaged who of the Committee from 31 May 2005. year, together with a record of their attendance provided the Committee with a shortlist of The Committee consists solely of at meetings which they were eligible to attend, potential appointees from which candidates independent non-executive directors.
were interviewed and then selected for Committee members have extensive recommendation to the Board for management experience in large international Meetings attended appointment.
organisations and the Chairman, Richard Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 Delbridge, who is a chartered accountant, is a Richard Delbridge 8 8 Remuneration Committee former group finance director of a FTSE 100 Iain Ferguson 8 8 The members of the Committee during the company.
David Fish until 30 September 2004 2 3 year, together with a record of their attendance The Committee meets four times each year.
Evert Henkes 8 8 at meetings which they were eligible to attend, The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Keith Hopkins until 29 July 2004 2 2 are set out below.
Director, Head of Internal Audit and other Mary Jo Jacobi until 29 July 2004 2 2 members of the senior management team Meetings attended Kai Nargolwala from 1 December 2004 4 4 as invited by the Committee, together with Larry Pillard until 31 December 2004 5 5 Allen Yurko, Chairman 7 7 the external auditors, usually attend meetings.
Carole Piwnica 8 8 Richard Delbridge 7 7 Non-executive directors who are not members Allen Yurko 8 8 David Fish until 30 September 2004 1 2 of the Committee are also invited to attend Evert Henkes 7 7 meetings to provide advice as necessary.
Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed as a member Keith Hopkins until 29 July 2004 1 1 The minutes of each meeting are circulated to of the Committee from 31 May 2005.
Mary Jo Jacobi until 29 July 2004 1 1 all members of the Board.
Both the Head of The Committee comprises the nonKai Nargolwala from 1 December 2004 4 4 Internal Audit and the external auditors have executive directors and the Chief Executive access to the Chairman of the Committee under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed as a member outside of formal Committee meetings.
Board except when the Committee is dealing of the Committee from 31 May 2005.
The Committee maintains a formal calendar with the appointment of a successor to the The Committee meets as required, usually of items which are to be considered at each Chairman of the Board when the Senior before each Board meeting.
The Committee Committee meeting and within the annual Independent Director chairs the Committee.
consists solely of independent nonaudit cycle to ensure that its work is in line In terms of the Code, at the date of this executive directors.
with the requirements of the Combined Annual Report, the Committee comprises a The Committee determines the individual Code.
The main responsibilities of the majority of independent non-executive remuneration packages of each executive Committee are: directors.
Due to changes in the composition director and other members of the Group of the Board during the year, however, for five Management Committee.
This includes base to monitor the integrity of the interim and months from 29 July 2004 to 31 December salary, bonus, long-term incentives, benefits, annual financial statements and any formal 2004, the Committees composition was not and terms of employment including those announcements relating to the Companys in compliance with the Code.
upon which their service may be terminated.
financial performance, paying particular 44 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 attention to significant reporting judgements effectively but some areas for further those services which the external auditors contained therein: improvement were identified such as in are permitted to provide: to review the Groups internal financial relation to staff recruitment: those services which the external auditors controls and its internal control and risk reviewing the Committees terms of are not permitted to provide: and management systems: reference and its effectiveness and those services which require approval of the to review and monitor the external auditors recommending changes to the Board as Audit Committee before the external independence and objectivity and the a result of this review.
The review in 2005 auditors can be appointed.
effectiveness of the audit process, taking concluded that no recommendations to into consideration relevant UK professional amend the terms of reference were required A report is made to the Committee each time and regulatory requirements: and that the Committee was operating in an it meets setting out the non-audit services to make recommendations to the Board, effective manner.
Some suggestions were provided by the external auditors during the for putting to shareholders for their approval made in respect of improvements to reports year and the fees charged.
Details of the in general meeting, in relation to the to the Committee and action is being taken amounts paid to the external auditors for appointment, re-appointment and removal to address this matter: audit, audit-related work and non-audit work of the external auditors and to approve the reviewing the Annual Report disclosure is given in note 4 to the financial statements remuneration and terms of engagement items relevant to the Committee including on page 69. of the external auditors: the going concern statement and the reports Having undertaken a review of the non-audit to monitor and review the effectiveness on risk management and internal control: related services provided during the year, the of the Internal Audit function: reviewing the potential impact on the Committee is satisfied that they did not to develop and implement a policy on the Groups financial statements of significant prejudice the external auditors independence.
engagement of the external auditors to corporate governance and accounting supply non-audit services: and matters and reviewing the progress towards Executive Committees to review arrangements by which implementation of International Financial The senior management team operates employees may, in confidence, raise Reporting Standards: through two executive Committees, the Group concerns about possible improprieties reviewing the findings of the external Management Committee and the Group in matters of financial reporting, financial auditors, their management letters on Operational Committee.
accounting procedures and internal financial The Group Management Committee, which controls and audit representation letters: is chaired by Iain Ferguson, Chief Executive, During the year the Audit Committee meeting privately with the external auditors oversees the development and execution discharged its responsibilities as set out in and the Head of Internal Audit: of the Groups strategy and has overall its terms of reference by undertaking the reviewing procedures under which responsibility for achieving business results.
following work: employees may, in confidence, raise The Committee comprises the four executive concerns about possible improprieties in directors, the Group Human Resources meeting prior to the Board meeting at which matters of financial reporting, financial Director and the Company Secretary the annual report and financial statements, control or other matters: and who is also the Groups General Counsel.
and the interim report and financial reviewing an annual report on the Groups The Group Operational Committee, which statements were approved.
In doing so, system of internal control and its is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa, Chief the Committee reviewed significant effectiveness and reporting the results of Operating Officer, is responsible for all aspects accounting policies, financial reporting the review to the Board.
of the day-to-day operations and trading issues and judgements and reports from of the Group.
In addition to Stanley the external auditors: During the year, training was also provided to Musesengwa, this Committee comprises the reviewing the effectiveness of the external Committee members outside the scheduled Heads of the Groups four main businesses audit process, the external auditors meetings on subjects of particular relevance and the three Group functional leaders.
strategy and plan for the audit, and the including sessions on taxation and The two Committees meet regularly, qualifications, expertise, resources and International Financial Reporting Standards either in person or by video conference, and independence of the external auditors: and their impact on the Company.
at least four times a year both Committees agreeing the terms of engagement and The Committee operates a policy to meet together.
fee of the external auditors for the audit safeguard the objectivity and independence and recommending to the Board that of the external auditors.
This policy sets out Risk Management  LLP be proposed certain disclosure requirements by the external The Board of Directors has overall to shareholders at the Annual General auditors to the Committee, restrictions on the responsibility for the Groups system of internal Meeting for re-appointment as external employment of the external auditors former control and risk management.
The schedule auditors to the Company: employees, partner rotation and procedures of matters reserved to the Board ensures that reviewing the policy on auditor for the approval of non-audit services by the the directors control, amongst other matters, independence and the provision of nonexternal auditors.
During the year, the all significant strategic, financial and audit services by the external auditors: Committee reviewed the processes which organisational issues.
receiving and considering regular reports  LLP have in place The Groups risk management process, which from the Head of Internal Audit on the to safeguard their independence and received assists management throughout the Group to Groups risk management system, findings a letter from them confirming that, in their identify, assess and mitigate risk, was reviewed from internal audit reviews, and the remit, opinion, they remained independent.
A risk management team has organisation, annual plan and resources The procedure for the provision of non-audit developed, defined and rolled out across of the Internal Audit function: related services by the external auditors is the Group an enhanced enterprise-wide risk undertaking a review of the effectiveness governed by a schedule appended to the management and reporting process.
The of the Internal Audit function.
The policy on auditor independence.
This schedule enhanced process, which is designed to Committees review in 2005 concluded that categorises such services between: deliver competitive advantage for the Group, the Internal Audit function was operating Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 45 Corporate governance continued involves the identification and prioritisation of Procedures set out the Groups results of this exercise, ensuring that the key risks through facilitated workshops held commitment to competence, integrity and representations made are consistent with the around the Group.
During the year, over 180 ethical values.
These policies are reviewed results of the departments work during the employees attended 25 risk workshops held by the Board annually and changes are year.
Where weaknesses have been identified, throughout the Group in order to identify made as appropriate to enhance existing plans for correcting them are also reported.
The identified risks then control procedures: The results of this exercise are summarised cascade up through functional and divisional key strategic risks are addressed through for the Audit Committee and the Board.
In the levels to the Group Operational and Group the Groups process of preparation of plans event that any significant losses are incurred Management Committees.
This culminates in by each operating unit and the compilation during the year as a result of the failure of the identification of the Groups key business, of these risks in the Groups operating plan: controls, a detailed analysis would be provided financial, operational and compliance risks there is a comprehensive annual planning to the Audit Committee and the Board.
with associated action plans and controls and financial reporting system comparing to mitigate them where possible and to the results with plan and the previous year on a extent deemed appropriate taking account monthly and cumulative basis.
This process of costs and benefits.
of planning, budgeting and making shortUnder the process, senior executive term forecasts provides early warning of management confirms to the Audit Committee potential financial risks.
Revised forecasts at least twice a year that these key risks are for the year are produced at least quarterly.
being managed appropriately within their Reports include a monthly cash flow operations and controls have been examined statement projected for 15 months: and are effective.
Responsibility for managing the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director each key risk and the associated mitigating and Chief Operating Officer undertake control is allocated to an individual executive regular financial and operational reviews of within each division.
Changes in the status of the major operating units within the Group: the key risks and changes to the risk matrix the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer are reported quarterly to executive and the Group Finance Director submit management and to the Board.
written reports to each Board meeting which include consideration of changing Internal Control threats and opportunities within the The Board of Directors has overall business.
The standard Board review responsibility for the Groups system of investments and disposals includes of internal control and for reviewing its identification of major risks that could affect effectiveness.
The Board delegates to the outcome of each project, with a executive management the responsibility sensitivity analysis: for designing, operating and monitoring both the Company has defined procedures for the system and the maintenance of effective the authorisation and project management internal control in each of the businesses of capital expenditure and investment, which comprise the Group.
These systems granting of guarantees, trading and hedging of internal control are designed to manage of currencies and commodities and use of rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide treasury products: and reasonable and not absolute assurance formal annual reports and presentations against material errors, losses, fraud or are received by the Board on certain areas breaches of laws or regulations.
These include insurance, All the material joint ventures which the treasury management, commodity trading, Group are party to currently follow the pensions, safety and environmental issues.
Groups formal systems of internal control and their internal control procedures are The Audit Committee periodically reviews the regularly reviewed by the Groups Internal effectiveness of the system of internal control Audit function.
through reports from the external auditors and The systems of internal controls are based the Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit on a process of identifying, evaluating and function follows a planned programme of managing risks and include the risk reviews that are aligned to the risks existing management processes set out above.
They have the These accord with the guidance in the authority to review any relevant aspect of Turnbull Report and were in place throughout the business.
this year and up to the date of the signing The Board, with the assistance of the of this Annual Report.
Audit Committee, has conducted an annual The key risks that might hinder the assessment of the effectiveness of the achievement of the Groups business systems of risk management and internal objectives are managed, controlled and control during the financial year and up to monitored by the processes described below: the date of this Annual Report.
The review, which is coordinated by the Internal Audit the Groups businesses operate under function, includes a Group-wide certification mandatory written policies and procedural that effective internal controls are in place and manuals to provide an appropriate control being operated effectively.
The Group Policies and function monitors and selectively checks the 46 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005
