Corporate governance PART ONE APPLICATION OF COMBINED CODE PRINCIPLES The board practises good corporate governance and supports the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The company has applied the principles of the Combined Code as follows: The board In 2005, the board comprised the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, as well as five independent non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors, with their broad range of experience, bring an important independent perspective to board decision making.
The board reviewed and updated the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive during the year, to ensure they are comprehensively and clearly defined and that there are appropriate checks and balances in place.
Paul Murray took over from Rob Rowley as Senior Independent Director on 12 August 2005.
On 12 January 2006, Donald Brydon succeeded Tony Cowling as Chairman and David Lowden became Chief Executive, taking over from Mike Kirkham.
Biographical information on the board directors is given on page 33.
The board is accountable to shareholders for the groups business operations and affairs.
It participates in the establishment of the groups strategy and oversees its implementation.
The board is responsible for monitoring the groups financial and operational performance and appropriate risk management.
In addition, it ensures that appropriate corporate governance procedures are in place to protect the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
In 2005, the Chairman met regularly with the non-executive directors to consider their views.
They constructively challenged and helped develop proposals on strategy at board meetings and at the biannual strategy meetings.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board that includes the approval of long-term objectives and commercial strategy, financial statements, major changes to the groups corporate structure, major acquisitions and disposals, dividend payments, expenditure authority levels and treasury and risk management procedures.
The following table identifies the number of board and committee meetings held during 2005 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Board meetings Committee meetings Note Regular Ad hoc Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings in year 884 7 5 Executive directors Andy Boland 86 Tony Cowling 78 7 Mike Kirkham 8 4 6 David Lowden 8 6 Non-executive directors Stephan Buck 1 2 2 2 2 Neil Cross 2 2 2 2 2 Paul Murray 3 552 3 Alice Perkins 4 5 4 5 3 Rob Rowley 83 35 4 Rmy Sautter 77 6 4 Sharon Studer 884 5 Notes 1 resigned 11 May 2005 2 resigned 11 May 2005 3 appointed 11 May 2005 4 appointed 2 March 2005 indicates not a member of that committee the sixth sense of business 37 Independent non-executive directors The board has determined that all of its non-executive directors are independent as defined in the Combined Code.
The terms and conditions of appointment for each of the non-executive directors are highlighted in the remuneration report.
Information and professional development The group has a comprehensive induction process for newly appointed directors to meet key personnel and, on request, major shareholders.
Both Alice Perkins and Paul Murray underwent thorough induction programmes in 2005, having separate meetings with key personnel across the group.
Presentations were received by the board on key areas of the business and site visits were made to Belgium and Denmark.
During the year, some directors attended tailored training programmes, specific to their individual needs, such programmes being available to all board members.
The board is also regularly briefed on matters affecting the groups activities, such as significant industry developments, as well as changes to the legal and regulatory environment in which the group operates.
Reporting is designed to ensure that management submits to board members all information relevant to board decisions, in a timely manner prior to each board meeting.
There is an agreed procedure whereby all board members may obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties.
Such advice was not sought by any director during 2005.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Performance evaluation The annual board and committee evaluations were carried out during 2005.
The directors evaluations took the form of questionnaires and interviews conducted by the Chairman.
The results were collated, analysed and fed back to board members.
The Chairmans review was led by the Senior Independent Director with the non-executive directors.
This was followed up by a review of board and committee performances, which involved all board directors and was also conducted by questionnaire.
The results were reviewed by board members following which a short set of action plans, to improve board performance, was agreed for the coming year.
Retirement by rotation In accordance with the companys articles of association, executive directors retire by rotation and submit themselves for re-election every three years and non-executive directors every two years.
Following performance evaluations, those directors up for re-election this year continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Insurance The company has purchased and maintains appropriate directors and officers and company reimbursement insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
Also, a deed poll was entered into during the year by the company, providing indemnities to directors as permitted by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004.
Board committees The board has three committees to assist in fulfilling its duties: an audit committee, a nomination committee and a remuneration committee.
Terms of reference for each of these committees were reviewed during the year although no amendments were considered necessary by the board.
They are posted on the groups website and hard copies are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Audit committee During the year the audit committee consisted of three independent non-executive directors, at least one of whom had recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee is chaired by Paul Murray, who took over from Neil Cross after the annual general meeting the 2005 AGM.
Its primary responsibilities include monitoring internal control and risk management systems, approving the groups accounting policies, reviewing the interim and annual financial statements before their submission to the board and keeping under review the scope and costs of audit, as well as the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The committee reviewed internal business and internal control reports, together with external audit reports.
The external auditor attended all audit committee meetings and met separately with the committees chairman.
The committee has adopted a formal policy for the supply of non-audit services provided by its external auditors.
Its aim is to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is not compromised whilst, at the same time, allowing the company to benefit from their expertise where it is needed.
The policy provides that proposals for all non-audit work carried out by the companys external auditors, incurring fees of over 50,000, require the approval of the audit committee.
All such proposals need to be accompanied by a written note to the committee, specifying why the work would not compromise the external 38 TNS annual report 2005 auditors independence and objectivity and stating why the external auditors are being recommended for the work.
In addition, the policy provides that all other non-audit work carried out for the group by the companys external auditors, which incurs fees of less than 50,000, be reported to the board on a regular basis.
A summary of the fees for non-audit work, which includes assurance, tax advisory and tax compliance work, during 2005 is given on page 62.
The committee is entitled to take independent professional advice and has full independent powers of investigation Nomination committee During the year the nomination committee consisted of three independent non-executive directors, as well as the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The committee is chaired by Rmy Sautter who took over from Stephan Buck after the 2005 AGM.
Its role is to review regularly the composition of the board, consider succession planning and nominate to the board, for approval, candidates to fill board vacancies.
Under the board appointment process, the nomination committee agrees a job specification that takes account of skills analysis of the existing board members.
Specialised external consultancies are asked to tender for the business.
The chosen consultancy provides a list of potential candidates, from which the committee agrees a short list.
Interviews are held by members of the committee and the successful candidate is recommended for board approval.
This process was followed for the appointments of Alice Perkins, Paul Murray and Donald Brydon.
Remuneration committee The composition and responsibilities of the remuneration committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Combined Code in setting directors remuneration, are included in the remuneration report on pages 41 to 49.
Financial controls and reporting The group operates a comprehensive system for financial reporting to the board, based on an annual budget and regular forecasts.
Financial performance is reported and appraised regularly and the operational management team identifies any new business matters, key risks facing the operating units and recent acquisitions in its reports.
The board approves budgetary expenditure in line with the groups corporate strategy.
Internal control The board is responsible for ensuring the group has an appropriate system of internal controls.
Day-to-day management of those controls is delegated to senior management of the relevant operating units.
Each year, all operations perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls in place in their business, through an internal control questionnaire and report their findings to the group.
The group has a business review and internal audit department which reviews financial, operational and compliance controls in a number of key business areas each year.
Recommendations are reported to senior management and, ultimately, to the audit committee and board.
In 2005, the business review department performed audits at 13 of the groups subsidiary companies and limited reviews at a further 12.
A key responsibility is monitoring the implementation of recommendations previously made: consequently the status of all recommendations is updated quarterly and reviewed by the executive management team.
An update is provided to the audit committee.
By these mechanisms the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The groups system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 2005, the key business, financial, operational and compliance risks facing the group were reviewed and prioritised.
The procedures in place to detect risks were addressed and the results were reported to the board.
These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered by this report and up to the date the annual report and accounts were approved.
The procedures comply with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
Code of conduct The company has in place a code of conduct which is publicised throughout the organisation.
The code provides guidance and assistance on how employees should conduct business throughout the group, including how to manage relationships with the companys stakeholders.
An ethics help-line allows employees to report suspected breaches of the code of conduct to the Company Secretary, who reports directly to the Chairman.
During the year, all enquiries to the help-line were independently investigated and where appropriate reported to the audit committee.
the sixth sense of business 39 Investor relations The group has in place a structured programme of communication with institutional shareholders and financial analysts.
Executive directors and the Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with financial analysts and existing and prospective institutional investors in the UK, Continental Europe and North America.
The purpose of these meetings is to provide background information regarding the group and to improve understanding of the companys business and strategy, within the constraints imposed to ensure that inside information is not selectively disclosed.
The group is conscious of the need to communicate information to shareholders and potential shareholders in such a way as to avoid the creation or continuance of a false market in its shares.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, inside information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time.
Group results are announced twice a year and, in addition, trading updates are issued to the market in January and July of each year.
Results and operational presentations made to investors and analysts are webcast live on the groups website, www.
In 2005, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director communicated with the companys brokers, to keep abreast of institutional shareholders attitudes to the company and consulted with major shareholders on governance issues.
All nonexecutive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
All directors are also kept informed of shareholders views via investor relations board reports, brokers briefings and surveys of shareholders opinion.
The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders to meet with and question the directors.
During 2005, 13 Regulatory News Service announcements were released, informing the market of acquisitions, financial results, the impact of IFRS and board changes.
These announcements, together with current and back issues of annual and interim reports, investor presentation webcasts and other items of interest to shareholders, are available on the groups website.
Pension funds The group operates a number of pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans for its employees throughout the world.
The pensions consist of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans.
Assets of the pension funds established for the benefit of the groups employees are held separately from those of the group.
In the UK these are held under trust by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises both employee representatives and group board members, in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995.
In the Netherlands, these are held by Stitching NIPO Pension funds.
In the US, the group has consolidated its section 401 k plans and now uses a single independent provider, Fidelity Management Trust Company.
TNS CMR LLC also maintains a Union Pension Plan, the assets of which are held under trust by Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N. A, together with defined benefit plans sponsored by TNS CMR.
TNS also maintains a defined benefit plan, the former NFO WorldGroup, Inc. Pension Plan, the assets of which are held under trust by KeyBank.
That pension plan is now frozen.
Details of pension commitments are given on pages 78 to 81.
Annual general meeting The notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review during the meeting and recorded in the minutes of the meeting and released to the market.
The Chairman, executive directors and chairs of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees all attended the 2005 AGM and were available to answer questions from shareholders.
PART TWO COMPLIANCE WITH COMBINED CODE Throughout 2005, the board is pleased to confirm that the group fully complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code.
By order of the board Ian Portal Company Secretary 6 March 2006 40 TNS annual report 2005
