Corporate Governance Statement The company is committed to the principles of corporate The Board has also adopted a framework of delegated governance contained in the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules and powers of the chief executive and of operating of the Financial Services Authority the Code and for which management.
All directors have access to the advice and the Board is accountable to shareholders.
services of the company secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors may take Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice independent professional advice at the companys expense Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, the company where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in as directors.
Board and Committee balance, independence and Statement about applying the Principles of Good effectiveness Governance It is the companys policy that appointments to the Board are In complying with the Code, the company has applied the Main made on merit and through a formal, rigorous and transparent and Supporting Principles of Good Governance of the Code.
process against objective criteria recommended by the Further explanation of how these Principles have been applied Nomination Committee.
The Committee guides the whole is set out below and, in connection with directors remuneration, Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments to the in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Chairmans Board and to senior management.
No Board appointments Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Operating were made during the year.
Performance Review seek to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and There is a clearly established division of responsibilities prospects.
between the chairman and chief executive, set out in writing, agreed by the Board, implemented by regular review meetings The Board and its committees between these ofcers and validated by the Board performance The Board consists of eight directors whose names, evaluation process.
responsibilities and other details appear on pages 30 and 31.
Three of the directors are executive and five are non-executive.
The chairman is also chairman of IMI plc, a FTSE 250 company.
The Board is satisfied that this and his other commitments The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic do not detract from the extent or the quality of the time which and entrepreneurial leadership of the company, within a he is able to devote to the company.
framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the companys strategic The appointment of non-executive directors is for a specified aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human term and re-appointment is not automatic.
During the three resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives years up to and including the 2006 Annual General Meeting, and reviews management performance.
It also defines the every director will have sought re-election at least once.
companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are The Board has reviewed and re-afrmed that it considers all understood and met.
of the non-executive directors, including the chairman, to be independent in character and judgement.
Whenever any The following documents have been published on the companys director considers that he or she is interested in any contract website and outline the way the Board and its committees or arrangement to which the company is or may be a party, due operate, which the Board reviews at least annually: notice is given in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Board has determined that any such interests as may have A schedule of matters specically reserved for the decision arisen during the year are not material to the director or to the of the Board: companies concerned.
A suite of board-mandated policies covering operational matters, compliance and stakeholder policies.
The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and The Terms of Reference of the Nomination, Audit and experience for the requirements of the business.
The Board and Remuneration Committees, which outline their objectives its committees operate within a framework of scheduled core and responsibilities and which define a programme of meetings and additional ad hoc meetings are held as required.
activities to support the discharge of those responsibilities.
In addition to formal meetings, the directors also participate in an annual Board planning awayday at which strategic and financial plans are reviewed and developed.
All directors visit the companys operations on a regular basis, meeting employees at all levels in order to maintain and refresh directors understanding of the business.
34 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance Statement continued The members of the Board and its committees, together with their attendances at the core meetings during 2005 are shown below.
The Company Secretary is also secretary to the Boards committees.
Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings held in the year 9 2 5 7 Norman Askew 9 2 5 7 Chairman Chairman Mike Davies 8 2 5 6 Senior Independent Director Lady Robin Innes Ker 9 2 5 7 Chairman Andrew Dougal 9 2 4 7 Chairman Vernon Sankey 8 2 5 5 Iain Napier 9 2 4 7 Chief Executive Peter Johnson 9 7 Finance Director Graeme McCallum 9 - - 3 Operations Director Denis Mac Daid 5 - - 4 Executive Director retired 30 June 2005 By invitation Information and professional development The directors reviewed the findings of these assessments in February 2006 and concurred with the conclusions that the Board The company has procedures whereby directors including is a cohesive and effective group and that its committees operate non-executive directors receive formal induction, training and continuing familiarisation about the companys business, effectively.
The Board veried that each director demonstrates operations and systems, the principles underlying the discharge effectiveness and commitment and that the quality of the Board's processes and its relationship with management is of a high of their duties as directors and wider issues relating to the housing and construction sector.
Training needs are identied order.
As a result of the evaluation, the Board has re-ordered a and implemented.
number of priorities and will intensify its focus on succession planning.
The Board will continue to use the evidence gained Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees through the evaluation process when setting objectives and and other functions procedures for 2006 and will continually review its approach to the evaluation process.
Between November 2005 and January 2006 the directors carried out the third annual evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board and its committees, of individual The internal Risk Management and Audit RMA function: directors and the internal and external auditors.
The evaluations An evaluation of the RMA function was carried out through consultation with the members of the Audit Committee, the were performed using the following framework: external auditors and the head of function.
In addition, The Board, its members and its committees: management provided feedback.
The evaluation, which was reviewed by the Audit Committee in November 2005, confirmed a The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board and its committees was focused mainly on the principles of the Combined Code high degree of confidence in the effectiveness of the function and and the NAPF Corporate Governance Policy, but also contained its ability to achieve its objectives and to meet the requirements of the Audit Committee and the business operations.
a number of broader judgements covering commercial and operational issues.
The evaluation was carried out by the company secretary through structured interviews with each director.
The external auditors: An evaluation of the external auditors was carried out through consultation with Board and Audit Committee members and Additionally, the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, met without the chairman present to with senior management.
The evaluation, which was reviewed appraise the chairmans performance.
The chairman also held by the Audit Committee in November 2005, found the performance of the external auditors to be satisfactory.
meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 35 Corporate Governance Statement continued Board Committees of the company, senior executives of major Group companies Remuneration Committee and remuneration and senior function heads.
The chief executive chairs its meetings.
The Boards policy and approach to the setting of remuneration for directors and senior executives and the activities of the The committee meets monthly and directs, controls and reviews Remuneration Committee are described in the directors the financial and operational performance of all Group companies Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 46. and divisions, and key issues relating to human resources, communications and legal matters.
It defines and recommends The Nomination Committee to the Board forward-looking business plans and budgets.
The members of the Nomination Committee and their attendance at meetings during 2005 is shown on page 35.
Within the delegated authorities framework, the fortnightly The Board has enjoyed a period of stability in recent years and investment sub-committee meetings review all major the work of the Nomination Committee during the year has investment proposals affecting the Groups business.
therefore been focused primarily on planning Board and senior management team succession and reviewing the balance of Other Group committees the Boards composition.
The Group has a number of other committees which coordinate activities in areas such as risk management, corporate Terms and conditions of appointment of all directors are social responsibility improvement including health, safety and available for inspection as described in the 2006 Annual General environmental matters, information technology developments Meeting circular to shareholders.
Audit Committee and auditors Internal control The members of the Audit Committee are shown on page 35.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing All members are independent non-executive directors.
The a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing Board has determined that Andrew Dougal, the committee the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly chairman, who is a member of the Institute of Chartered reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of Accountants of Scotland, has recent and relevant financial the year to the date of approval of this report and which is in experience.
accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for directors on the Code published in July 2003.
The Board is responsible for the The chairman of the company, the chief executive, finance Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its director, head of RMA, representatives of the external auditors, effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than and senior executives of major Group companies attend eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and meetings of the committee by invitation.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The committee reviews the internal control framework, the internal audit process the financial reporting practices and the In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board external audit process.
It ensures that the Board regularly regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system assesses business risks, and their management and mitigation.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk In monitoring the financial reporting practices the committee management.
This process is based principally on reviewing reviews accounting policies, areas of judgement, the going reports from management to consider whether significant risks concern assumption and compliance with accounting standards are identied, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether and the requirements of the Code.
The committee also reviews, any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate prior to publication, the interim and annual financial statements a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also and other major statements affecting the Group concerning performed a specic assessment for the purpose of this annual price-sensitive information.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report Appointment of the auditors for non-audit services including the work of RMA.
The Audit Committee assists the The Audit Committee has approved a policy on employing the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Key elements auditors to provide services other than audit services, which of the system of internal control are detailed below.
is to require a competitive tender except in narrowly-dened circumstances where the company considers that for A Group-level review is carried out by the members of the condentiality, past knowledge or other reasons, there is an advantage in using a single tender procurement procedure.
Executive Committee to identify the major risks facing the The committee has determined that the following assignments Group and to develop and implement appropriate initiatives should not be undertaken by the auditors: to manage those risks.
This process applies across the Group.
Key operational and financial risks are identied and assessed the provision of internal audit services: and at the operating process level, while strategic risks are advice on large IT systems.
identied as a part of the business planning process.
Strategic risk reviews are carried out in each of the operating divisions The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the to identify business risk, evaluate existing controls and maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
develop strategies to manage the risks that remain, the results of which form part of the Boards assessment.
Executive Committee Updates to these risk assessments are reported to the The Executive Committee consists of all the executive directors Executive Committee.
36 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance Statement continued An Executive Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance and management, who consider them on a regular basis.
The Director, reports to the Executive Committee.
This committee, head of the RMA function has direct access to the chairman of which has formally agreed terms of reference, oversees the risk the Audit Committee.
and control framework of the Group and monitors the response to key risk issues identied through the assessment process.
A database of audit recommendations and improvement The committee meets monthly and its findings are reviewed by initiatives is maintained.
A monthly follow up routine ensures the Audit Committee as part of an overall process whereby that such improvements are implemented in a timely manner.
assurance is obtained about the integrity of the risk management and internal control process.
Throughout the year the Board continually considers the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
On Management 23 February 2006 it completed the annual assessment for the The Chief Executive has responsibility for preparing and year to 31 December 2005 by reviewing evidence from the reviewing a three-year corporate plan and the annual budgets.
Audit Committee, operating divisions, RMA, and by taking These are subject to formal approval by the Board.
Budgets are account of events since the year-end.
re-examined in comparison with business forecasts throughout the year to ensure they are sufciently robust to reect the The annual employee performance appraisal process is possible impact of changing economic circumstances.
The chief objective-based, with individual objectives cascaded down from executive and the Board conduct regular and systematic the appropriate business objectives.
Development reviews reviews of actual results and future projections with comparison identify training needs to support achievement of objectives.
against budget and prior year, together with various treasury reports.
Disputes that may give rise to significant litigation or Whistleblowing contractual claims are monitored monthly.
The chief executive The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported in the UK by an conducts quarterly business performance reviews, at which an  procedure Safecall through which assessment is made of the progress against objectives, employees of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns changes to operational risk and adequacy of control.
about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
Safecall is widely publicised within the company.
The Group has clearly-dened policies, processes and Calls received are investigated by the head of RMA.
The Audit procedures governing all areas of the business, which are Committee receives reports on all occasions when such accessible using a web-enabled intranet tool, which also concerns are raised.
An owner is identied for each process, responsible for risk assessment and process Relations with shareholders effectiveness.
Operational compliance responsibilities are also The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with assigned to individual managers who have access to major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders and has compliance testing and auditing software tools.
For each put in place arrangements designed to facilitate contact about process, key operational controls have been identied and remuneration and other issues.
This provides the opportunity for these are subject to quarterly self-assessment.
meetings with the chairman, the Senior Independent Director as well as the chief executive and finance director and other Dened authority limits are in place.
In particular, any executives in order to establish a mutual understanding of investment in land, property and other significant assets, objectives.
There is a structured programme of investor relations, including acquisitions and disposals, require detailed appraisals based on formal announcements and publications covering the and are subject to dened authorisation levels and postfull year and interim results.
There are associated briengs for investment review procedures.
Investment decisions, including stockbroking analysts and investors, the presentation material Private Finance Initiative PFI projects, and tenders for for which is published on the companys website.
contracts are subject to approval by the Board, the chief executive or subsidiary operating management, depending on All directors receive formal reports and briengs during the year the value and nature of the investment or contract.
about the companys investor relations programme and receive detailed feedback through surveys, direct contact and other There is a clearly identiable organisational structure and a means, through which they are able to develop an understanding framework of delegated authority approved by the Board within of the views of major shareholders about the company.
which individual responsibilities of senior executives of Group companies are identied and can be monitored.
The Board encourages shareholders to participate in the Annual General Meeting.
The RMA function oversees a quarterly programme of Controls Self Assessments across the UK development and construction Information about the company and the Group, including full businesses.
A similar programme is to be implemented in the year and interim results and other major announcements, is North America housing business.
These activities are reinforced published on the companys website www.
com through process compliance and other audits conducted by RMA.
Going concern The RMA function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency of After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks and to monitor reasonable expectation that the Group and the company have the activities of the Group in accomplishing established adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the objectives.
Regular reports from these reviews are provided to foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the Board and reported to the chief executive, Audit Committee the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 37
