Corporate governance Marconi Corporation plc the Company was the holding company of The Board, which has reserved certain specific matters to itself, is the Marconi Group throughout the period under review.
responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, consideration of significant financial matters, review of the The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to UK financial performance and strategic direction of the operating companies listed with the United Kingdom Listing Authority is businesses and establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority.
contained in the 2003 FRC Combined Code the Combined Code, which was introduced in 1998 and revised in 2003.
Directors receive appropriate training on appointment and as necessary thereafter.
They attend an induction programme which aims to provide As the Companys American Depositary Receipts are listed on Nasdaq, an understanding of the Company, its strategy, structure, geographical it must also comply with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules including the spread of operations, financial position, the markets in which it rules on corporate governance, as they currently apply.
operates, its products and technologies, its people and, where appropriate, their legal responsibilities as a director.
The directors have The Board access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is The Company is controlled through the Board of directors which responsible for advising them on corporate governance matters, and currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and there is an approved procedure by which all directors can obtain five non-executive directors who, with their different backgrounds, independent professional advice at the Companys expense in bring with them a wide range of expertise and experience to the furtherance of their duties, if required.
The Board considers all five of the non-executive directors to be independent both in relation to the criteria set out in Performance evaluation the Combined Code and the Nasdaq rules on corporate governance.
The Company engaged the services of an external consultancy to assist There are no cross-directorships or interlocks between any of the with Board performance evaluation.
The first phase, which took the form directors arising from their directorships of other companies.
of a detailed questionnaire sent to each director, related to the The names and biographical details of the directors, together with the performance of the Board and its principal committees.
As a result of membership of the principal Board committees, are set out on page 23. the process, the Board was satisfied with its effectiveness and that of its principal committees and it identified specific objectives for itself in There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and addition to the objectives set for the executive directors.
Chief Executive Officer with no single individual having unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for running the The second phase dealt with the performance of individual directors Board and ensures that all directors receive sufficient, accurate, and included a detailed questionnaire and peer reviews.
The feedback clear and relevant information on financial, business and corporate on the second phase was provided to the Chairman for all other matters, in a timely manner, to enable them to participate directors and to the Senior Independent Director in respect of effectively in Board decisions.
The Chairmans other significant the Chairman.
The results confirmed that the directors were business commitments are his non-executive chairmanships of performing effectively.
BizzEnergy Group Limited, Ergo Finance LLP, MCC Energy plc and NATS Holdings Limited.
Board committees Terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination, Operations, Remuneration The Chief Executive Officers primary role is the effective management and Executive committees of the Board are published on the and proper control of the Companys businesses with the objective of Companys website www.
com and are available on request achieving the delivery of the strategic and financial objectives approved from the Company Secretary.
The principal committees and a by the Board from time to time.
description of their terms of reference, are as follows: Mr M K Atkinson was designated the Senior Independent Director throughout the year and continues to fulfil this role.
In this capacity, Audit Committee he is available to shareholders should they have concerns that they The Board believes that Mr Atkinson, who chairs the committee, has the are unable to resolve through the normal channels of contact with the appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to do so.
All the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
He is also members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
responsible for leading the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The committee meets formally at least four times a year with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attending The Board ordinarily meets at least 10 times a year but holds by invitation.
additional meetings when circumstances require.
Between meetings, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary The committees principal activities relate to 1 the engagement of update the non-executive directors on current matters.
In addition, external auditors and the monitoring of their effectiveness and the Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors, independence, 2 considering the effectiveness of the internal audit without the executive directors present, and the Senior Independent function see page 27, 3 reviewing the Groups accounting and Director holds meetings with the non-executive directors, without financial reporting procedures and systems of internal control, and 4 the Chairman present.
reviewing formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, including quarterly and annual results announcements The Board does not have a formal policy limiting the number of and annual financial statements.
The Companys internal and external other boards that directors may serve on but evaluates this on a auditors attend committee meetings by invitation and meet, several case-by-case basis.
No executive director served on any other times a year, with the committee members in the absence of the boards during the year under review.
24 To fulfil its responsibility for ensuring auditor objectivity and following their appointment and to reappointment thereafter at intervals independence, the committee receives regular reports from the of no more than three years.
Details of directors seeking reappointment Companys external auditors in relation to any non-audit services at this years Annual General Meeting can be found on page 29. provided, proposed or contemplated and is required to pre-approve the As a result of the first phase of the Board performance evaluation provision of such services and take whatever actions or make whatever process, which was led by the Chairman and involved the whole Board, recommendations it feels are appropriate to maintain the objectivity and the committees responsibilities, defined in its terms of reference, have independence of the external auditors.
The audit committee has subsequently been expanded to include this function.
implemented procedures relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditors.
These include 1 the maintenance of a Operations Committee schedule of certain non-audit services, including consultancy, investment This committee meets at least twice a year.
Its current membership banking and legal services, which the Company is specifically prohibited comprises Ms K R Flaherty, who chairs the committee, Mr W K Koepf from obtaining from the audit firm, 2 requiring the selection of providers and Mr N D Sutcliffe, the Groups Head of Operations.
The committees of permitted non-audit services to be subject to a tender process, where main functions include the review of the Groups manufacturing strategy, appropriate and 3 requiring non-audit work and the fees involved to be product cycle management, sales and marketing strategy, delivery approved in advance by the audit committee.
performance, quality performance and customer satisfaction.
An analysis of the fees payable to the external audit firm in respect of both audit and non-audit services during the year is set out in note 27 Remuneration Committee to the accounts.
The Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration, on pages 31 to 41, describes the membership and terms of reference of The committee is also responsible for the arrangements in relation to the committee.
It also sets out the Companys remuneration policy, the Companys Financial Code of Ethics and its Speak up policy, practice and details of the remuneration of individual directors.
Approval which provides a facility for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, of this report will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
about possible accounting irregularities, failures of internal controls or other similar matters.
The Code and policy are published on the Executive Committee Companys website.
This committee, which normally meets monthly, comprises the executive directors, the regional managing directors and five nominated Nomination Committee senior executives.
The current membership of the committee is This committee is chaired by Mr J F Devaney.
The committee evaluates Mr D C Beck, Mr G Bertolina, Mr P S Binning, Mr A L Evans, the balance of skills, knowledge and experience represented on the Mr J Ferrara, Mr M Harriman, Mr S Kindt, Mrs E Nardi, Mr M W J Parton, Board and makes recommendations to the Board concerning any Mr M E Plato, Mrs M A Skelly, Mr R J Smith and Mr N D Sutcliffe.
adjustments deemed to be necessary.
The quorum of three requires the presence of at least two executive Following a process, which involves the preparation of a job specification directors.
Mr M W J Parton chairs the committee.
and assessment of the capabilities required to fulfil it, briefing an external The committee's main functions include approval of the Groups executive search consultancy and interviewing any candidates that the business plan and budget, the review of performance against plan, the committee feels are appropriate from those identified by the search Groups strategies in areas including technology, people, information consultancy, the committee makes recommendations to the Board on technology, corporate communications and change programmes, all proposed new appointments of directors.
all subject to approval by the Board.
This committee also deals with dayto-day matters of a routine nature for which the quorum is two, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all directors one of whom must be an executive director.
The committee also fulfils are subject to reappointment at the first annual general meeting the role of a business risk committee.
Attendance at meetings The following table indicates the number of Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees held in the year to 31 March 2005 and attendance at those meetings.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Number held 13716 Number attended number eligible to attend J F Devaney 12 13 N A 1 1 N A M K Atkinson 13 13 7 7 1 1 6 6 P S Binning 13 13 N A N A N A M J Donovan 8 8 N A N A N A K R Flaherty 12 13 N A 1 1 6 6 P C F Hickson 12 12 7 7 1 1 6 6 W K Koepf 12 13 6 7 1 1 6 6 D F McWilliams 12 13 7 7 1 1 4 4 M W J Parton 13 13 N A N A N A The Chairman was unavailable for one Board meeting due to ill-health.
That meeting was chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The chairmen of the principal committees were available and chaired all of the relevant committee meetings.
All directors in office at the commencement of the annual general meeting held on 13 September 2004 were in attendance for the meeting.
25 Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Responsibility The Company gives a high priority to communication with shareholders.
The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of The announcement of interim and final results provide opportunities for internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of the Company to answer questions from institutional investors covering internal control can only manage and not eliminate the risk of failing to a broad range of issues.
In addition, there is regular dialogue with achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not institutional investors to ensure a mutual understanding of objectives.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
com provides access for all Risk and the control structure shareholders to information about the Company including the annual A framework for managing risk exists within the Group and the Board report and quarterly financial reports, details of recent announcements, oversees an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing investor presentations and share price information.
Shareholders are the significant risks faced by the Group.
These risks include strategic, able to put questions to the Company through its website.
operational, commercial and financial matters.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer maintain a Terms of reference clearly define responsibilities of the Board, regular dialogue with the Companys major institutional investors and the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee and written brief the other members of the Board on the views expressed by those policies establish levels of delegated authority throughout the investors.
In addition all directors receive analysts briefing notes on the Groups businesses.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to institutional investors to discuss corporate governance matters, A formal business risk management process, in accordance with the as and when required, and the Chairman invites major institutional Turnbull guidance, has been followed during the year and up to the investors, should they wish, to meet with newly appointed date of this report from which the Audit Committee has established an non-executive directors.
The risk process identifies, evaluates and manages significant risks faced by the Group.
Risks are identified through a The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee discussed certain bottom up process whereby each management unit maps the risks aspects of senior executive compensation arrangements with a number they face, evaluates the likelihood of the risks occurring and the impact of major institutional investors during the period under review.
The Executive Committee has assessed and prioritised The Company aims to deal expeditiously with all enquiries from the management unit risks, identified potential Group risks and individual shareholders.
Individual shareholders also have the developed action plans to mitigate these risks to a desired level.
opportunity of attending annual general meetings, to put questions to Progress is reviewed quarterly against these plans.
the Chairman and the other directors.
Directors also meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
The Company keeps under review Developments in control processes ways in which it can communicate more effectively with its shareholders During the year the Group redeemed the last remaining Loan Notes throughout the year as well as at annual general meetings.
established as part of the financial restructuring in May 2003 but continues to apply many of the controls that were put into place in It is the Companys practice to send the notice of the Annual General 2003 to ensure compliance with the terms of the Loan Notes.
Meeting and related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate resolutions on each Following the SECs announcement of a one year delay in the substantially separate issue.
Votes will be taken by poll at the application of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to foreign forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the results, including any registrants, the Groups certification date will now be 31 March 2007. votes withheld, will be published as soon as possible after the The Group has continued to develop appropriate documentation and conclusion of the meeting.
All directors are expecting to attend this testing procedures to demonstrate compliance.
A substantial amount of years Annual General Meeting.
internal audit resource has been deployed in support of this work.
The Group has increased the capacity and capability of its finance Financial reporting function, by implementing a new consolidation and reporting IT system The Board includes a detailed review of the performance and financial with effect from 1 April 2005, and is planning the replacement of its UK position of the Groups businesses on pages 6 to 17.
In making this ERP system.
available alongside the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Directors report, the Board seeks to present a balanced The Group has established a Finance Committee that reports to the and understandable assessment of the Companys position and Board on the management of financial risks and policy, including progress.
Furthermore, the Company publishes quarterly results compliance with debt covenants, funding and capital structure and tax announcements, which provide a regular update on the Companys and treasury policy.
Following the removal of restrictions imposed by the performance throughout the year.
terms of the Loan Notes on the use of derivatives, the Groups Treasury function has developed hedging policies and procedures.
These are Internal control reviewed by the Finance Committee and Audit Committee prior to The Board has established procedures that enable the Group to comply implementation and on an ongoing basis.
with both the guidance on internal controls issued by the Turnbull Committee and that included in the Combined Code.
In addition, the Group intends to comply fully with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules on corporate governance, as they come into force.
26 In the latter part of the year the Groups outsourced internal audit The Audit Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness function was moved to KPMG following a competitive tender process.
of the system of internal control and carried out the following during The audit plan for the new financial year has been approved by the the year: Board and Audit Committee.
a review of the external audit plan, scope and materiality of audit work, key judgements, management representations, audit issues Control environment and resolution and compliance with accounting policies: A comprehensive system exists for controlling the business and risks, ensuring adequate stewardship of assets, reporting accurate and timely a review of internal audit plans and linkage to the risk maps: financial information and maintaining proper accounting records.
consideration of management reports on financial results and key Financial results and key operating statistics are prepared and reported judgements, external management letters and internal audit reports in accordance with Group policies and procedures.
Forecasts are and recommendations on internal control systems and any significant prepared each quarter and actual results are compared with forecasts weaknesses: and and budgets and reviewed each month by the Executive Committee a review of actions being taken to address control weaknesses in a and the Board.
Budgets are prepared by management units, reviewed by the Executive Reports from the Groups external auditors are presented quarterly to Committee and approved by the Board.
Business units have also the Audit Committee prior to filing of the Groups quarterly financial prepared comprehensive assessments and evaluations of business reports in the UK and US.
They discuss any internal control issues and risks that are reviewed by the Executive Committee.
Corporate reviews and approval procedures are in place to cover investments, disposals, strategy, capital expenditure, contract tenders, Review of effectiveness research and development investment, litigation, industrial relations, The directors confirm that the Audit Committee has considered, within treasury management, insurance, taxation, outsourcing, pensions and the past 90 days, the adequacy of internal controls and that the Board environmental issues.
has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls described above, for the year ended 31 March 2005 and for the period A Financial Code of Ethics exists for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Financial Officer and senior finance team.
The Code deals with honest and ethical conduct, disclosure in reports and accounts and compliance There were no significant changes in the design of the internal controls with laws and regulations.
In addition, a wider code of conduct for all subsequent to the most recent evaluation.
employees has also been adopted, which includes a Speak up policy The directors have also concluded that the disclosure controls and that provides a means of communication to enable employees to raise, procedures are effective for the year under review and to the date of amongst other things, concerns about the Groups financial conduct.
the approval of the financial statements.
Monitoring of internal controls Compliance statement Clear processes exist for monitoring internal controls and reporting The Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority require any significant control weaknesses and mitigation plans.
These are the Board to report on compliance with the provisions contained co-ordinated by the Audit Committee.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the accounting Business units and members of the Executive Committee certify period and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
quarterly to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Throughout, and since, the year ended 31 March 2005, the Company through a letter of assurance, compliance with internal policies and has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the procedures, including balance sheet reviews and revenue recognition, Combined Code.
ethics and fraud, local laws and regulations, delegated authorities, related party transactions, IT policy and reporting internal control weaknesses.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer consider the letters of assurance, interview those who have prepared them and monitor actions taken to address any significant issues.
Summaries of these certifications are presented to the Audit Committee quarterly.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews disclosures arising from this process proposed for inclusion in the Groups quarterly financial reports filed in the UK and US.
Members of the Executive Committee also review and approve the information disclosed in the Groups quarterly financial reports filed in the UK and US.
