Directors report During the year TPF changed its mechanism for hedging The Directors present their annual report to shareholders interest rate risk from the use of derivatives to cash instruments.
on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited This had the effect of increasing both the assets and liabilities consolidated financial statements of the Group for the in the TPF balance sheet by approximately 2bn as at the year ended 26 February 2005.
Principal activity and business review The principal The Tesco Group would support its 50% share of any further activity of the Group is the operation of food stores and funding TPF may require to sustain liquidity ratios.
However, associated activities in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Hungary, we believe that provisions for bad debts and insurance losses Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Turkey, Thailand, South supported by the re-insurance of significant risks are at Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and Japan.
During the year, we prudent levels.
entered into a Joint venture in China, through an investment of 145m in Hymall.
A review of the business is contained Insurance We have taken the decision to purchase Assets, in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement Earnings and Combined Liability protection from the open 2005 which is published separately and, together with this insurance market at a catastrophe level only.
The risk not document, comprises the full Tesco PLC Annual Report and transferred to the insurance market is retained within the Financial Statements.
business up to various limits, with the balance self insured on a multinational basis by use of our captive insurance Group results Group sales including VAT rose by 3,513m companies, Tesco Insurance Limited in Guernsey and Valiant to 37,070m, representing an increase of 10.5%.
Group Insurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland.
Tesco underlying profit on ordinary activities before taxation, net Insurance Limited covers Assets and Earnings, while Valiant profit loss on disposal of fixed assets, integration costs and Insurance Company Limited covers Combined Liability.
goodwill amortisation was 2,029m, compared with 1,708m for the previous year, an increase of 18.8%.
Including net Other information Additional financial and nonprofit on disposal of fixed assets, integration costs and financial information, including press releases and year goodwill amortisation, Group profit on ordinary activities end presentations can be accessed on our website, before taxation was 1,962m.
The amount allocated to the www.
com corporate and in our Corporate employee profit-sharing scheme this year was 65m, against Responsibility Review 2005.
After provision for tax of 593m, minority interests of 3m and dividends, paid and proposed, of 587m, profit retained for the financial year amounted to 779m.
Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.27p per ordinary share, to be paid on 1 July 2005 to members on the Register at the close of business on 22 April 2005.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.29p per ordinary share paid in November 2004, the total for the year will be 7.56p compared with 6.84p for the previous year, an increase of 10.5%.
Tangible fixed assets Capital expenditure amounted to 2,417m compared with 2,285m the previous year.
In the Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have a market value in excess of the book value of 13,175m included in these financial statements.
In the year we received 646m from our new property Joint venture with Topland.
Share capital The authorised and called-up share capital of the company, together with details of the shares allotted during the period, are shown in note 24 to the financial statements.
Details of investments held in Tesco PLC are shown in note 25 in the financial statements.
Tesco PLC 9 Directors report continued Companys shareholders The company is not aware of any Employees are encouraged to become involved in the financial ordinary shareholders with interests of 3% or more.
performance of the Group through a variety of schemes, principally the Tesco employee profit-sharing scheme SharesDirectors and their interests The names and biographical in-Success, the savings-related share option scheme Save-Asdetails of the present Directors are set out in the separately You-Earn and the partnership share plan Buy-As-You-Earn.
published Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005.
Political and charitable donations Cash donations to charities amounted to 4,576,210 2004 3,953,582.
Mrs K R Cook and Ms C McCall were appointed to the Board Contributions to community projects including gifts in kind, in the last twelve months and, as required by the Articles staff time and management costs, amounted to 21,762,931 of Association, offer themselves for election.
Sir Terry Leahy, Mr T J R Mason and Mr D T Potts retire from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves There were no political donations 2004 nil.
During the year for re-election.
the Group made contributions of 40,929 2004 44,713 in the form of sponsorship for political events: Labour Party The interests of Directors and their immediate families in 9,250: Conservative Party 5,132: Liberal Democrat Party the shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors 5,350: Plaid Cymru 1,000: Fianna Fil 1,340: Fine Gael share options, are contained in the Directors remuneration 1,667: Progressive Democrats 2,190: Usdaw 15,000. report set out on pages 17 to 31.
Contributions were made to trade unions in the Czech and At no time during the year did any of the Directors have Slovak Republics of 957 and 847, respectively.
a material interest in any significant contract with the Supplier payment policy Tesco PLC is a signatory to the CBI company or any of its subsidiaries.
Copies of the Code may be obtained A third party indemnity provision as defined in Section 309B 1 from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London of the Companies Act 1985 is in force for the benefit of each WC1A 1DU.
Payment terms and conditions are agreed with of the Directors and the Company Secretary who is also a suppliers in advance.
Director of certain subsidiaries of the company and remains Tesco PLC has no trade creditors in its balance sheet.
The in force in favour of Ms V Morali and Mr G F Pimlott who are Group pays its creditors on a pay on time basis which varies retiring Non-executive Directors.
according to the type of product and territory in which the Employment policies The Group depends on the skills suppliers operate.
and commitment of its employees in order to achieve its Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the objectives.
Staff at every level are encouraged to make their company have adequate resources to remain in operation for fullest possible contribution to Tesco success.
the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt A key business priority is to deliver an Every little helps the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Ongoing training As with all business forecasts, the Directors statement cannot programmes seek to ensure that employees understand the guarantee that the going concern basis will remain appropriate Groups customer service objectives and strive to achieve them.
given the inherent uncertainty about future events.
The Groups selection, training, development and promotion Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  policies ensure equal opportunities for all employees regardless LLP as auditors of the company and Group will be proposed of factors such as gender, marital status, race, age, sexual at the Annual General Meeting.
preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin, Annual general meeting A separate circular accompanying religion or belief, or disability.
All decisions are based on merit.
the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Internal communications are designed to ensure that explains the special business to be considered at the Annual employees are well informed about the business of the General Meeting on 24 June 2005.
These include a UK staff magazine called one team By Order of the Board and the equivalents in our overseas businesses, videos and Ms Lucy Neville-Rolfe Company Secretary staff briefing sessions.
11 April 2005 Staff opinions are frequently researched through surveys Tesco PLC and store visits.
We work to deliver Every little helps for all Registered Number: 445790 our people across the Group.
10 Tesco PLC Corporate governance Directors report on corporate governance We are financial statements, major acquisitions and disposals, authority committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
levels for expenditure, treasury policies, risk management, Group We recognise that good governance helps the business to governance policies and succession plans for senior executives.
deliver our strategy and safeguard shareholders long-term All Directors have access to the services of the Company interests.
We believe that the revised Combined Code provides Secretary and may take independent professional advice at a useful guide from which to review corporate governance the companys expense in conducting their duties.
This statement describes the Boards reviewed and updated the insurance cover and indemnities approach to corporate governance.
provided for Directors and officers this year.
Board composition and independence As at 26 February All new Directors receive an updated induction programme 2005, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised six Executive Directors designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of and eight independent Non-executive Directors, and Mr D E the Group.
On appointment the Director will liaise with the Reid, the Non-executive Chairman.
Mr D E Reids appointment Company Secretary and Chairman to ensure their programme as Non-executive Chairman commenced on 2 April 2004 and is appropriately tailored to their experience, background and was confirmed by shareholders at the AGM in June 2004.
He particular areas of focus.
It may include an overview of the has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief business model, the Board processes, matters reserved for Executive, Sir Terry Leahy, has executive responsibilities for the the Board, an introduction to Board Committees that the new operations, results and strategic development of the Group.
appointee will serve on, briefings with senior management and Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist and site visits, at home and abroad.
The need for Director training operate effectively for these positions.
Mr R F Chase became is regularly assessed by the Board.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director on 1 March 2004.
The structure of the Board and Board processes The Board governs through clearly identified the integrity of the individual Directors ensure that no one Board Committees to which we delegate powers.
These are individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
the Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
They are properly Changes to the membership of the Board were announced last authorised under the constitution of the company to take year as part of an ongoing process to ensure that the balance decisions and act on behalf of the Board within the guidelines of the Board reflects the evolving needs of the business.
and delegations laid down by the Board.
The Board is kept fully Mrs K R Cook joined as a Non-executive Director on 1 October informed of the work of these committees.
Ms V Morali retired from the Board on 26 February 2005. resolution will be referred to the full Board.
A summary of the Ms C McCall joined the Board on 1 March 2005.
The process operations of these committees is set out below.
The three for nomination and appointment is set out in the Nominations statutory committees Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee report on page 12. are underpinned by the attendance of Non-executive Directors, The Board requires all Non-executive Directors to be who provide an independent insight to governance, and their independent in their judgement.
In our view, all Non-executive Terms of Reference are available on the website Directors meet this requirement.
Mr G F Pimlott has served as www.
com corporate or at the AGM.
a Non-executive Director at Tesco for 12 years and retires from Executive Committee The Board delegates responsibility the Board in May 2005.
He has, again, provided excellent for determining and implementing the strategic plan, and for independent advice and challenge throughout the year in managing the Group, to the Executive Committee.
This normally his capacity as a Non-executive Director.
During the year he meets every week and its decisions are communicated resigned from the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee throughout the Group, on a regular basis.
The Executive and Remuneration Committee.
Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises Board responsibilities The Board meets nine times the Executive Directors and Ms L Neville-Rolfe, the Company a year and annually devotes two days to a conference with Secretary.
It has authority for decision making in all areas senior executives on performance and longer-term planning except those set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for giving consideration both to the opportunities and risks of Board Decision.
The Executive Committee is responsible for future strategy.
The Board has set out clearly the Schedule implementing Group strategy and policy, for monitoring the of Matters Reserved for the Board in order to ensure overall performance of the business and reporting on these matters control of the Groups affairs.
These include the approval of in full to the Board.
Tesco PLC 11 Corporate governance continued The Executive Committee has also set up further operational the Committee which is composed entirely of independent groups or boards aimed at seeing through the key elements Non-executive Directors.
Committee members for the full year of the strategic plan, managing the UK and international were Mr R F Chase and Dr H Einsmann.
Mr E M Davies joined operations, Joint ventures, property acquisitions, trading, the Committee in October 2004 and Mr G F Pimlott resigned finance, funding and people management.
These groups from the Committee during the year.
The responsibilities of are heavily populated with Executive Directors and senior the Remuneration Committee, together with an explanation management from relevant functions.
of how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Combined Code are set out in the Directors remuneration Nominations Committee In the light of assessment of Board report on pages 17 to 31. capability, the Nominations Committee leads the process for Audit Committee The Audit Committees primary responsibilities Board appointments and the re-election and succession of are to review the financial statements: to review the internal Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by control systems including risk management: to review the Mr D E Reid and its members during the year were Mr C L Allen, internal audit programme: to consider the appointment of Mr R F Chase, Mr E M Davies, Dr H Einsmann, Mr K J Hydon the external auditors and their independence, and to review and Sir Terry Leahy.
Mrs K R Cook joined the Committee in the Committees own effectiveness.
The annual schedule October 2004 and Ms C McCall joined in March 2005.
Where also includes a review of Protector Line, the companys matters discussed relate to the Chairman, the Senior whistle-blowing procedure.
Independent Non-executive Director chairs the meeting.
After the 2004 AGM, Mr G F Pimlott passed the Chairmanship In the last twelve months, two new independent Non-executive of the Committee to Mr K J Hydon, who has recent and Directors were appointed to the Board.
Prior to these relevant financial experience.
The other Committee members appointments the Board agreed clear criteria against which to for the full financial year were Mr R F Chase and Mr E M Davies.
assess each of the candidates.
External recruitment consultants Mrs K R Cook joined the Audit Committee on appointment were employed to advise and oversee the process.
Both to the Board in October and Ms V Morali resigned from the appointees underwent a rigorous nomination process before Committee on her retirement from the Board on 26 February the Board agreed on their appointments.
The Committee consists entirely of independent NonMrs K R Cook is a Managing Director and President at executive Directors.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Goldman Sachs, Europe, and her appointment took effect Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and representatives from 1 October 2004.
Mrs K R Cook has previously served of the external auditors normally attend meetings.
The for six years as a Non-executive Director at Dixons plc.
She Committee meets with the external auditors without Executive is a highly respected investment banker and brings with Board members present at least once a year.
her considerable knowledge of the financial markets.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed Ms C McCall joined the Board on 1 March 2005 and also has annually and represent current best practice.
This year the relevant experience of the retail industry having previously served Committee met five times.
To facilitate the Committees as a Non-executive Director at New Look Group plc.
Her strategic, understanding of the Groups international affairs, a special brand marketing and media experience as Chief Executive of meeting is held at an international location.
The Committee Guardian Newspapers Ltd will be an asset to the Board.
has arranged an away-day for training and updating on audit specific matters.
This training is for members of the Audit All new Directors are submitted for election by shareholders Committee and Executive and Non-executive Directors, with in their first year.
All Directors have to submit themselves for complementary sessions tailored to individual needs.
re-election at least every three years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
Board performance evaluation With the full support of the Board, the Chairman led a formal evaluation of the performance Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees of the Board and its key committees.
The process, which role is to determine and recommend to the Board the included interviews with each Director and the Company remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
It monitors Secretary, was conducted by an external independent consultant.
the level and structure of remuneration for senior management The review concluded that the Tesco Board is highly effective and seeks to ensure that the levels and structure of remuneration and that there have been significant improvements in the is designed to attract, retain and motivate the Executive Boards culture, dynamics and administrative processes Directors needed to run the company.
Mr C L Allen chairs during the year.
12 Tesco PLC Board Nominations Remuneration Audit Members attendance during the year ended 26 February 2005 meetings Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings held 9155 Non-executive Directors Mr D E Reid Chairman 9 1 N A N A Mr C L Allen 815 N A Mr R F Chase Senior Independent 8155 1 Mrs K R Cook 21 N A2 2 Mr E M Davies 6134 Dr H Einsmann 9 1 4 N A Mr K J Hydon 81 N A 5 Ms V Morali 7N A N A 3 Mr G F Pimlott 8135 Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy 9 1 N A N A Mr R Brasher 8 N A N A N A Mr P A Clarke 9 N A N A N A MrA THigginson 9 N A N A N A MrTJ RMason 9 N A N A N A Mr D T Potts 8 N A N A N A Notes: N A indicates the Director is not a member of the Committee.
Directors leave the meeting where matters relating to them are being discussed.
It is expected that all Directors attend Board and Committee meetings unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments and all Directors attend the AGM.
Mrs K R Cook was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2004 and has attended all Board meetings and Audit Committees that have taken place since then.
Mr E M Davies joined the Remuneration Committee in October 2004.
The Chief Executive reviews the performance of each Executive Identifying risks The Board considers and approves the Key Director.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Risk Register and the mitigating actions.
In addition, at the Executive and each Non-executive Director.
During the year, annual two-day Board conference, we also consider where the Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors without future opportunities and risks lie, which helps shape our the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Nonoverall future corporate strategy.
The key risks are a regular executive Director, Mr R F Chase, met with the Non-executive feature of the Boards agenda and further assurance on Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the implementation comes from the reviews by management Chairmans effectiveness.
and internal audit, the Compliance Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Finance Committee.
The Board scheduled nine meetings in this financial year and ad hoc meetings were convened to deal with urgent matters.
Internal controls and risk management From the Key Risk The above table shows the attendance of Directors at regular Register, we assess the impact and probability of each risk Board meetings and of members at the Audit, Nominations and the effectiveness of the mitigating controls.
Methods for and Remuneration Committees during the year.
monitoring each specific risk are then agreed.
Accountabilities for managing these operational risks are clearly assigned to Internal control and risk management The Board line management.
Risk assessments are carried out routinely has overall responsibility for internal control, including by management throughout the UK and international risk management.
We agree appropriate policies that businesses.
Procedures exist to ensure that significant risks will safeguard the achievement of the Groups objectives.
and control failures are escalated to senior management Executive management is responsible for identifying, and the Board on a timely basis.
evaluating and managing financial and non-financial risks.
It is the Executives role to implement and maintain the We have a five-year rolling business plan that focuses control systems across the Group in accordance with the on delivering the Groups strategy.
Each business unit and Boards policies and in line with best practice identified support function derives its objectives from the plan and these in the Turnbull Guidance.
are cascaded to form individual objectives.
The plan covers Tesco PLC 13 Corporate governance continued all the key trading and financial performance measures and Internal and External Audit The internal audit department targets to deliver the financial returns on the capital employed is fully independent of business operations and has in the business.
It operates on a risk-based methodology so ensuring that the Groups key risks receive On an annual basis these plans are combined with detailed appropriate regular examination.
The head of internal budgets and also our balanced scorecard which we call our audit also attends all Audit Committee meetings.
Steering Wheel which unites the Groups resources around  LLP, the companys external our customers, people, operations and finance.
This enables auditors, contribute a further independent perspective the business to be operated and monitored on a balanced on certain aspects of the internal financial control system basis with due regard to all stakeholders.
In our fast moving arising from their work, and report accordingly.
business trading is tracked on a daily and weekly basis, financial performance is reviewed weekly and monthly and The engagement and independence of external auditors the Steering Wheel is reviewed quarterly.
In addition, all major is considered annually by the Audit Committee before they initiatives require business cases to be prepared, normally recommend their selection to the Board.
The Committee covering a minimum period of five years.
Post-investment has satisfied itself that  LLP are appraisals are also carried out.
independent and there are adequate controls in place to safeguard their objectivity.
Such measures include the We have a structured programme for internal communication requirement to rotate audit partners every five years.
We of policies, procedures and performance.
This provides have a non-audit services policy which sets out criteria for employees with a clear definition of the Groups purpose and employing external auditors and identifies areas where it goals, accountabilities and the scope of permitted activities is inappropriate for  LLP to work.
of companies, executive functions and individual staff.
This Non-audit services work carried out by  ensures decision-making takes place at the correct level and LLP is predominantly transaction work and corporate tax that all our people understand what is expected of them and services.
 LLP also follow their own how we have performed.
ethical guidelines and continually review their audit team Monitoring the controls The Board agrees clear processes to ensure their independence is not compromised.
for monitoring controls through the Statutory Committees: Finance Committee Membership includes Non-executive Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Directors with relevant financial expertise, Executive Committee.
In addition, the Executive Committee monitors Directors and members of senior management.
The controls through three key committees: Compliance Committee usually meets twice a year.
Its role is to review Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Finance and agree the Finance plan on an annual basis: to review Committee.
All of these provide assurance that the business reports of the Treasury policies: and to review and approve is operating legally, ethically and within approved financial and Treasury limits and delegations.
The Committee reports are circulated Compliance Committee Membership of the Committee to the Board who hold a formal discussion on each at least includes two Executive Directors, the Company Secretary once a year.
and members of senior management.
It normally meets Audit Committee The Audit Committee, described above, four times a year.
The Board delegates its responsibilities reports to the Board on its review of the effectiveness for compliance with all necessary laws and regulations to of the systems of internal control for the accounting year the Compliance Committee.
This Committee has established and the period to the date of approval of the financial a schedule for the regular review of the Groups operational statements.
Overall, the Audit Committee seeks to ensure activities and legal exposure to ensure compliance with that the whole management process provides adequate accepted practices and policies.
control over major risks to the Group.
This is achieved Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee is through consideration of regular reports from internal and chaired by the Company Secretary and membership is made external audit, alongside discussions with senior managers.
up of senior managers from across the business.
It meets It should be understood that such systems are designed at least four times a year to support, develop and monitor to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against policies on social, ethical and environmental issues.
It reviews material mis-statement or loss.
threats and opportunities for the Group.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs for key areas of corporate responsibility are tracked through the Responsible and safe segment of our 14 Tesco PLC
