58 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board promotes the highest standards of corporate governance during normal business hours on weekdays and will also be available within the Company through its support and application of the for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 15 Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined minutes before the meeting until it ends.
A summary of the Companys system of applying the principles recommends the appointment of a senior independent non-executive and the manner in which the provisions in Section 1 have been Director and Sir Brian Pitman has served in this capacity during the year complied with are set out in this report to shareholders.
The roles of non-executive Directors are to scrutinise the the Combined Code sets out the main and supporting Principles of performance of management in meeting agreed objectives, help Good Governance for companies, which are split into the following develop proposals on strategy and monitor the reporting of areas: directors, remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations performance, including satisfying themselves as to the integrity of with shareholders.
financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management put in place by the Company are robust and effective.
DIRECTORS They meet together from time to time in the absence of management and the Chairman normally presides over such meetings.
THE BOARD Directors receive a range of information about the Company upon The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards appointment and, where appropriate, any training that is necessary main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide leadership for them to carry out their duties effectively.
An induction programme of the Company, to approve the Companys strategic objectives, to is available which aims to provide an understanding of the Company ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made as a whole, including its strategy, structure, geographical spread of available to the management to enable them to meet those operations, financial position, markets, products, technologies and objectives and to operate within a framework of effective controls people, as well as their legal responsibilities as a Director.
The Directors which enables the assessment and management of principal have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose business risks.
The Board, which has reserved certain specic matters removal may be effected only with the approval of the Board.
There is to itself for decision, is responsible for approving overall Group an approved procedure by which all Directors can obtain independent strategy and financial policy, acquisition and divestment policy and professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their major capital expenditure projects.
It also appoints and removes duties, if required: this procedure is reviewed periodically.
members of the Board and Board Committees, and reviews The Board ordinarily meets not less than five times a year, and will recommendations of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee hold additional meetings when circumstances require.
During the year and Nomination Committee and the appointment of the independent to 31 December 2005, the Board met on five occasions, including a auditor and the financial performance and operation of each of the meeting held solely to consider and approve Group strategy.
meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive officer update the nonThe Board has delegated to the Chief Executive officer executive Directors on current matters and there is frequent contact to responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group subject progress the affairs of the Company.
With the encouragement of the to certain financial limits above which Board approval is required.
Chief Executive officer, the non-executive Directors have regular The delegated authority includes such matters as operations, contact with senior management through their presentations at Board acquisitions and divestitures, investments, capital expenditure, meetings, at strategic reviews and on other occasions.
borrowing facilities and foreign currency transactions.
Attendance by each individual Director at Board and Committee The Board of Directors comprises a non-executive Chairman, eight meetings held during 2005 is set out in the table on the next page.
additional non-executive Directors and two executive Directors who The Board sets the standards and values of the Company and together, with their different ages, financial, commercial, technical much of this has been embodied in the Companys Code of Conduct and operational expertise and cultures, bring with them and Ethics and Human Rights Policy which can be found on the a wide range of experience to the Company.
The Code of Conduct The Board has determined that David Newlands, Norman and Ethics applies to all Directors, ofcers and employees, including Broadhurst, Richard Gillingwater, Jack Keenan, Ken Minton, Sir Brian the principal executive, financial and accounting ofcers, as required Pitman, David Richardson and Struan Robertson are independent, as by section 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the related they are independent of the Companys executive management and rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules free from any material business or other relationship with the of the New York Stock Exchange.
The Code contains provisions Company either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an in paragraph XVI under which employees can report violations of organisation that has a relationship with the Company.
In December company policy or any applicable law, rule or regulation, including 2000, at the request of the Board, the non-executive Chairman, David those of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
US employees Newlands, temporarily assumed certain executive responsibilities until have the added protection of section 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act the recruitment of James Nicol as Chief Executive in February 2002.
It is the Boards view that this short-term arrangement did not affect of 2002, which prohibits the discrimination by a company or others Mr Newlands independence.
Accordingly, the Board believes that against an employee where such violations are reported.
The current there are no such relationships that could materially interfere with the procedure, which is set out in Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics, exercise of their independent judgement.
Marshall Wallach is the only provides for information to be given anonymously or by named non-executive Director deemed not to be independent as a result of employees under conditions of condentiality.
Those employees who his advisory capacity to the Gates family who are substantial come forward and give their name are assured that they will receive preference shareholders in the Company.
the full protection of section 806 and no retaliation will take place.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for a minimum This is of particular importance since 57 per cent of the Companys period of two years, which is renewable by agreement with the employees are based in the US.
Furthermore, the Company ensures Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive that the principles are applied in other jurisdictions, subject to Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce compliance with local employment and other laws.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GOVERNANCE 59 ATTENDANCE BY EACH INDIVIDUAL DIRECTOR AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS HELD DURING 2005 Health, Safety and Audit Remuneration Nomination Environment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings held in 2005 5 5 2 3 3 Meetings attended: David Newlands 5 n a n a 3 n a Norman Broadhurst 5523 n a Richard Gillingwater n a n a n a n a n a Jack Keenan 5423 n a Ken Lever 5 n a n a n a n a Ken Minton 54233 James Nicol 5 n a n a n a 3 Sir Brian Pitman 5 n a n a 3 n a Struan Robertson n a n a n a n a n a Marshall Wallach 5 n a n a 3 3 Notes: n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of a Committee.
Richard Gillingwater and Struan Robertson were both appointed to the Board and Committees on 20 December 2005 and no Board or Committee meetings were held between that date and the end of the year.
During the year, other Directors have attended meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Health, Safety and Environment Committee by invitation.
These details are not included in the above table.
On the rare occasion when a Director cannot attend a meeting, he will normally, prior to the meeting, make his views on the agenda items known to the Chairman or, in respect of Committee meetings, to the chairman of the respective Committee.
RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Companys businesses and the development and implementation of At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and in strategy.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Ken Minton the Chairman and with the Chief Executive officer periodically, either and Ken Lever as the longest serving Directors, will retire from the together or separately, to consider and discuss a wide range of matters Board and Ken Lever will seek re-appointment.
Norman Broadhurst affecting the Company, its business, strategy and other matters.
will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General 3.
BOARD COMMITTEES Meeting and together with Ken Minton will not be seeking The Board has established a number of Committees and receives re-appointment.
There are no circumstances relating to their reports of their proceedings.
Each Committee has its own delegated retirement from the Board that they wish to draw to the attention of authority as dened in its terms of reference, which are reviewed shareholders.
Marshall Wallach will stand down from the Board with periodically by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that its Committees effect from 1 May 2006.
Richard Gillingwater and Struan Robertson have written terms of reference which conform to best corporate who were appointed by the Board on 20 December 2005 and David governance practice.
The terms of reference for all Board Committees Richardson who was appointed by the Board on 1 March 2006 are can be found on the Companys website, www.
co. uk, or required, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a copy can be obtained by application to the Company Secretary to seek re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting following at the Companys registered ofce.
Details of their terms of appointment can be The Board appoints the chairmen and members of all found in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Richard Gillingwater Board Committees upon the recommendation of the has many years broad business experience, including investment Nomination Committee.
The Company Secretary is Secretary banking, and Struan Robertson has held a number of senior to all Board Committees.
management positions in both the UK and overseas.
David Richardson has substantial financial management and strategic planning The principal Committees, their membership, a brief description experience over many years.
The Board strongly supports the of their terms of reference and their duties are as follows: re-appointment of all Directors standing for re-appointment and AUDIT COMMITTEE recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their re-appointment.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER J M J Keenan, D H Richardson appointed 1 March 2006.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Details of the Audit Committee and its work can be found the Chief Executive officer, with neither having unfettered powers on pages 56 and 57. of decision with respect to substantial matters.
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and ensures that all Directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate matters to enable them to participate effectively in Board decisions.
In advance of each meeting, the Board is provided with comprehensive brieng papers on items under consideration.
The Chairman, David Newlands, is also Chairman of Kesa Electrical plc and PayPoint plc.
Whilst these are important appointments, the Board of Tomkins believes that the Chairman continues to be able to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Company.
The Chief Executive Ofcers primary role is the running of the TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 60 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The General Purposes Committee meets as and when required.
It K J Minton Chairman, N N Broadhurst, R D Gillingwater, J M J Keenan.
comprises executive Directors and senior executives and the quorum The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year requires the presence of at least one executive Director.
The and on other occasions when circumstances require, comprises Committee deals principally with day-to-day matters of a routine independent non-executive Directors and has responsibility for nature and matters delegated to it by the Board.
determining Company policy on executive remuneration for approval DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE by the Board.
It also determines specic remuneration packages and D B Newlands Chairman, J Nicol, K Lever.
compensation packages on employment or early termination of ofce During the year, the Board formed a Disclosure Committee for the for each of the executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee purpose of, inter alia, reviewing and approving for release all pricetakes independent advice from consultants as and when required.
All sensitive information relating to the Company and compliance with decisions of the Remuneration Committee in respect of remuneration the Disclosure Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
packages of executive Directors are referred to the Board.
No executive Director takes part in any discussion or decision concerning 4.
BOARD, COMMITTEE AND CHAIRMAN EVALUATIONS his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee also monitors Under the direction of the Senior Independent Director, Sir Brian the compensation packages of other senior executives in the Group Pitman, evaluations of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees below Board level.
and Chairman were conducted during the year.
The evaluation The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on processes built on the experiences of the previous evaluations of the pages 50 to 55.
Board and its Committees and concentrated on six key elements: i the optimum mix of skills and knowledge amongst the Directors: NOMINATION COMMITTEE ii clarity of goals and processes: iii tailoring the evaluation to the D B Newlands Chairman, N N Broadhurst, R D Gillingwater, specic circumstances of Tomkins: iv the culture of candour that J M J Keenan, K J Minton, Sir Brian Pitman, D D S Robertson, encourages constructive evaluation: v regular reviews of assessment M F Wallach.
criteria: and vi full disclosure of procedures and criteria to the Board.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on all proposed appointments of Directors through a formal and BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION transparent procedure.
The Committee meets as and when required.
The third Board performance evaluation took place during the year, In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors building on the experiences of the first two years.
The overall view of are subject to re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting Directors was that the Board functions well, supported by high quality immediately following the date of their appointment, and thereafter papers, presentations and reporting.
Improvements in the they have to seek re-appointment no more than three years from the communication processes between Board meetings were suggested date they were last re-appointed.
The Committee recommends to the to maintain the ongoing and high quality of debate within the Board.
Board the names of the Directors who are to seek re-appointment at On Board structure, Directors were conscious that care was needed the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Companys when replacing non-executive Directors, in order to maintain the Articles of Association.
balance of skills and experience of the Board and this has been taken During the year, two new Board appointments were made.
The into account in the recruitment of non-executive Directors during Nomination Committee was at the heart of the recruitment process, the year.
including the appointment of professional advisers and conducting The second Board Committee performance evaluation reinforced interviews with potential candidates, and the Committee and Board the positive messages that were highlighted in the first evaluation.
are aware of, and support, the principles set out in section A.
4 of the The Committees were led by strong and experienced members who Combined Code relating to appointments to the Board.
There were a small number of suggestions on improving particular aspects of the work of a Committee, including HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE reporting by the Committee.
Overall, there was satisfaction that the K J Minton Chairman, J Nicol, D D S Robertson, M F Wallach.
The Health, Safety and Environment Committee meets at least three times a year.
The Committee is chaired by an independent nonCHAIRMAN executive Director and its membership also includes the Chief For the evaluation of the Chairman this year, a more formal approach Executive officer.
Its principal role is to determine, on behalf of the was adopted which included completion of a questionnaire that Board, the framework or broad policy and objectives in the areas of sought views across a broad range of the Chairmans responsibilities.
health, safety and the environment HSE and propose any The Directors were very positive about the role performed by the amendments to existing policies for approval by the Board.
It also Chairman and his leadership of the Board.
A small number of reviews managements performance in the achievement of HSE suggestions were made and these were discussed with the Chairman objectives and reviews HSE reports produced by business units for by the Senior Independent Director, Sir Brian Pitman.
compliance with all local health, safety and environmental codes of practice, legislation and relevant industry practice.
B. REMUNERATION More details of the work of the Health, Safety and Environment The Remuneration Committee report to shareholders can be found on Committee can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility report pages 50 to 55 and sets out the Companys remuneration policy, to shareholders on pages 20 to 27. procedures and the remuneration of individual Directors and related information.
GENERAL PURPOSES COMMITTEE J Nicol Chairman, K Lever, E H Lewzey, J E Middleton, N C Porter, K A Sullivan, M T Swain, N P Wilkinson.
TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GOVERNANCE 61 price information, Group policies and the terms of reference of its C. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Board Committees.
Shareholders are also able to put questions to the 1.
FINANCIAL REPORTING Company via its website.
The Board, through the Business, Operating and Financial reviews, The Company aims to deal expeditiously with all enquiries from seeks to provide a detailed understanding of each business of the shareholders on a wide range of matters.
Shareholders also have the Group.
In conjunction with the Chairmans statement, the Chief opportunity to attend the Annual General Meeting to put questions Executives statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the to the Chairman and to the chairmen of Board Committees.
The Directors report, the Board seeks to present a balanced and Chief Executive officer gives a presentation to shareholders covering a understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
wide range of matters affecting the Company and its business and 2.
INTERNAL CONTROL shareholders have the opportunity to ask him questions.
The Further information on the internal control environment within which Company indicates the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each Tomkins operates may be found in the Directors statement on resolution proposed at its Annual General Meeting following each internal control on pages 62 and 63. vote on a show of hands.
In the event of a poll being called, the result will be published as soon as possible after the conclusion of the 3.
GOING CONCERN Annual General Meeting.
Directors also meet informally with The Directors are confident, on the basis of current financial shareholders before and after the meeting.
The Company keeps projections and facilities available, that the Company and the Group under review ways in which it can communicate more effectively with have adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the its shareholders throughout the year, as well as at the Annual General foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt Meeting.
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
It has been the Companys practice to send the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers to shareholders at least 4.
WHISTLEBLOWER REPORTING PROCEDURES 20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate Under section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, all public resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
companies, including non-US public companies such as Tomkins, acting through the Audit Committee of the Board, must provide a INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS procedure for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints The Board notes that Section 2 of the Combined Code seeks to received by the Company regarding accounting, internal controls or encourage more active participation by institutional shareholders auditing matters.
The Audit Committee and the Board have agreed a including entering into a dialogue with companies and making procedure for the condential and anonymous submission by considered use of their votes principles which the Company employees of concerns regarding these matters.
D. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Company places a high degree of importance on maintaining The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require the Board good relationships and communications with both institutional and to report on compliance with the provisions contained in Section 1 of private investors and ensures that shareholders are kept informed of the Combined Code.
Tomkins considers that throughout the year to significant Company developments.
31 December 2005 the Company has been in compliance with the In order to assist members of the Board to gain an understanding Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined of the views of institutional shareholders, at each of its meetings the Code on Corporate Governance, except for those matters indicated in Board receives an Investor Relations Report, which covers a wide the Remuneration Committee Report.
range of matters including a commentary on the perception of the The certications of the Chief Executive officer and Finance Company and views expressed by the investment community.
Director required under section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of Analysts reports are also made available to all Directors.
The 2002, and the related rules of the US Securities and Exchange announcement of quarterly, half-year and full-year results provides Commission, will be led as exhibits to the Companys Form 20-F. opportunities for the Company to answer questions from institutional Pursuant to Section 303A, the Foreign Private Issuer Annual Written shareholders covering a wide range of topics.
The Chairman, Chief Afrmation was sent to the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in Executive officer, Finance Director and Senior Vice-President Investor August 2005, afrming without qualication that Tomkins has Relations hold a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders to complied with the requirements laid down by the NYSE in respect of ensure the mutual understanding of objectives.
Regular reports are Foreign Private Issuers.
made to non-executive Directors by the Chairman, Chief Executive The Company has placed on its website a general summary of the officer and Finance Director of the key points to emerge from significant ways in which the Companys corporate governance differs meetings they have had with substantial shareholders.
The Chief from that followed by domestic US companies under the NYSEs Executive officer participates in industry conferences organised by listing standards, as required by section 303A.
11. investment banks, which are attended by existing and potential shareholders, and he holds regular meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Company exercises care to ensure that all price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the same time, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and Regulation FD in the US.
The Companys website provides shareholders and potential investors with information about the Company, including annual and interim reports, recent announcements, investor presentations, share TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
