56 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT MEETINGS This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance with The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and on other the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code and occasions when circumstances require.
The quorum for a meeting paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees of the Committee is two members.
The Finance Director and produced by Sir Robert Smith.
The report describes the role of the representatives from the independent auditor and the internal auditor Audit Committee in meeting these requirements.
attend meetings under a standing invitation.
The Chairman of the TERMS OF REFERENCE Board, Chief Executive officer and other Directors are able to attend The Committees terms of reference, a copy of which can be found meetings of the Committee under the practice that any Director may in the Corporate Governance area on the Companys website, are attend any meeting of a Board Committee provided that they have no reviewed from time to time and approved by the Board of Tomkins.
conict of interest in respect of business to be discussed.
It is usual They are based on the model terms of reference set out in the practice for the Chief Executive officer to attend meetings of the Guidance Note produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Audit Committee.
Other finance and business risk executives attend and Administrators and take account of the requirements of the meetings and the Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Guidance Notes set out in The Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its Sir Robert Smiths Report published in January 2003. activities.
Five meetings were held during the year and attendance The terms of reference cover membership and appointment, is set out in the table on page 59. meetings their frequency, quorum, attendees and minutes, duties WORK OF THE COMMITTEE and responsibilities covering external audit, internal audit, financial The Committee has established an agenda framework which reporting, internal controls and risk management systems, Tomkins believes is vital for maintaining an appropriate focus on whistleblowing, reporting responsibilities, authority delegated by the objectives of the Committee.
The agenda sets out all of the the Board and a number of other matters.
operational duties and responsibilities outlined in the Committees MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT AND EXPERIENCE terms of reference and is based on four regular meetings, in February, The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive May, August and November, which coincide with the announcement Directors, three of whom have served on the Committee throughout of the quarterly results.
The areas covered by the agenda the year and the fourth who was appointed in December.
The framework are as follows: members of the Committee are Norman Broadhurst, who was 1.
Corporate Governance, including the regular review of the appointed to the Committee, as Chairman, in December 2000, Ken Committees terms of reference and annual evaluation, Minton, who was also appointed in December 2000, Jack Keenan, regulatory issues, review of delegated authorities and review who was appointed in November 2001 and Richard Gillingwater who of auditor independence: was appointed on 20 December 2005.
No limitation on the term of 2. Business Risk Assurance i. e. internal audit, including the review ofce is specified for members of any of Tomkins Board Committees.
of the internal audit charter, update on internal audit reviews and The Board has determined that all four members of the Audit future plans, and progress against its internal audit business plan: Committee are independent for the purposes of the Combined Code and rule 10A.
3 b 1 under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 3.
Condential sessions with the Audit Committee, in the absence and section 303A of the New York Stock Exchanges Listed Company of Directors and Company executives: Manual.
The members have wide-ranging financial, commercial and 4.
Financial Reporting, including current accounting and financial management experience that they bring to the work of the Audit reporting matters and review of quarterly, interim and annual Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 46 and 47. statements including earnings releases: and The Chairman of the Committee, Norman Broadhurst, is a 5.
Independent Audit including audit plan and scope, review of Chartered Accountant FCA and a Fellow of the Institute of Corporate audit fees, cost effectiveness, reports on interim and annual Treasurers, having previously been group finance director of Railtrack financial statements, status reports, management letters and PLC 1994 to 2000 and joint deputy chief executive and finance the nature and extent of non-audit services.
director of VSEL Consortium PLC 1990 to 1994.
In accordance with The audit plan and scope sets out details of the areas to be covered section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Board has and how the audit is to be conducted.
The Chairman of the Audit determined that Norman Broadhurst is an audit committee financial Committee meets periodically with the independent auditor to discuss expert as that term is dened under the rules of the US Securities progress on the audit and the major points to arise, and has the and Exchange Commission, having significant, relevant and up-to-date opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the process.
The Committee UK and US financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
Ken Minton has held a number of senior management positions having is also able to assess the effectiveness of the auditors and the process been Managing Director and then Chief Executive of Laporte PLC and through reports made to the Committee by the independent auditor.
Jack Keenan has held a number of senior management positions in In addition to the items considered by the Committee under the international companies having been Chairman of Kraft International, agenda framework, during 2005 other important issues considered Chief Executive of Guinness United Distillers and Vintners and an included regular reviews of the internal control systems and the executive Director of Diageo plc.
Richard Gillingwater is Head of statement to be made in the Directors Report and Accounts in Shareholder Executive a body responsible for the Governments respect of internal controls, Group risk prole, Group tax reports, shareholdings in major publicly-owned businesses and has wideupdates on compliance with the Combined Code, review of tax ranging experience in investment banking of more than 20 years.
services provided by the independent auditor, Form 20-F and update All three have extensive financial experience.
Condential meetings with representatives of the TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GOVERNANCE 57 independent audit and internal audit functions took place during the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies in particular that year in the absence of executives.
Considerable time and emphasis the external auditor should not audit its own rms work, make continues to be placed by the Committee on compliance with section management decisions for the Company, create a mutuality of 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and detailed progress reports interest nor be put in the position of advocate for the Company, were received by the Committee at each of its meetings, including an when taken together provide adequate protection of auditor update of the Sarbanes-Oxley Project Risk Prole.
This has been the independence.
All fees proposed by the external auditor must be focus of attention of the Business Risk Assurance and internal audit reported to the Audit Committee and approved by the Chairman of function during the first half of the year.
In the second half of the the Audit Committee.
Details of audit fees for the year can be found year, Business Risk Assurance resources were transitioned towards on page 82 of the financial statements.
internal audit reviews, with an appropriate amount of resources The Companys practice, in accordance with the Companies Act applied to Sarbanes-Oxley and internal audit responsibilities.
The Audit 1985 and the Combined Code, in relation to the appointment and Committee met earlier in the year to consider Tomkins transition to termination of the independent auditor, involves a recommendation International GAAP reporting adoption of International Financial from the Audit Committee to the Board, which will then make a Reporting Standards IFRS and following detailed consideration recommendation to shareholders in general meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the US, where the independent auditor is by the Committee, consultation with the independent auditor and accountable to the Audit Committee, which has the authority to approval by the Board, the Company announced on 22 April 2005, appoint or dismiss the independent auditor without reference the intended basis of preparation of financial statements under IFRS.
The Company has published comparative information for 2004 With the approval of the Board, the Committee has established originally presented in accordance with UK GAAP but restated in guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of accordance with IFRS.
The first results to be prepared on an IFRS the independent auditor.
Tomkins will not engage, on a part-time or basis were the Groups results for the quarter ended 2 April 2005. full-time basis, any person who is or was an employee of the Business Risk Assurances internal audit function is actively Companys independent auditor, where that person has worked on the engaged in the business risk assessment processes in the Groups Groups audit either as a principal or partner at any time during a businesses and also provides guidance and assistance in the period of not less than three years prior to the proposed date of development of risk mitigation plans.
Each quarter, the Committee joining the Tomkins Group.
In addition, though Tomkins may employ receives a summary of reviews of the businesss risk management an employee of the Companys independent auditor where such processes: any significant related financial exposures are also person has never worked on the Groups audit either as a principal or highlighted.
The risk assessment process and risk mitigation plans partner, a period of not less than one year must elapse prior to the are an important part of the development of the business strategies.
proposed date of that person joining the Company.
Any former Business risks are considered at the quarterly reviews with the employee of the independent auditor who joined the Company before businesses, where all of the major strategic, operational, compliance the independent auditor was appointed will remain unaffected.
and financial risks are discussed.
A whistleblowing procedure has been established for the In determining its policy on the extent of non-audit services condential and anonymous submission by employees of concerns provided by the independent auditor, the Committee has taken regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters, in account of the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission accordance with the requirements of section 301 of the Sarbaneswhich regulate and, in certain circumstances, prohibit the provision Oxley Act of 2002.
Should a call be received on the dedicated of certain types of non-audit services by the independent auditor.
telephone line, the Vice-President, Business Risk Assurance would Non-audit services are ordinarily put out to tender and require the immediately report to the Chairman of the Audit Committee all approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During the year, concerns raised.
A course of action is agreed and a report is prepared specic projects requiring tax services were the subject of a tender for review at the next meeting of the Audit Committee, including process and in a number of cases the work was not awarded to the details of actions taken to deal with the matters raised.
The Chairman rm of the independent auditor.
In those cases where the work was of the Committee will report all cases of whistleblowing to the awarded to the independent auditor it was concluded that the rm of Committee and the Board.
The Companys Code of Conduct and the independent auditor was best placed to supply in a cost effective Ethics includes the whistleblowing procedure.
No reports were manner such tax services, due to the experience and qualications of received by the Committee during the year.
the individuals providing such services, the independent auditors Shareholders are given the opportunity at the Annual General knowledge of the Company and its tax affairs and that the best Meeting to ask the Chairman of the Committee questions on this interests of the Company were served by engaging the rm of the report and any other related matter.
By way of example, during 2005, the American Jobs Creation Act in the US enabled Tomkins to take advantage of a N N BROADHURST number of tax benets.
After a detailed review and, in some cases, CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE a tender process, it was decided that Deloitte and Touche were the preferred rm to engage on a number of projects to ensure that 21 February 2006 Tomkins maximised the benets available.
This was largely due to the efficiencies arising from the knowledge Deloitte and Touche has of the Tomkins Group.
The adoption of certain other rules by the Committee, including those relating to audit partner rotation, relevant ethical guidance issued by the professional bodies in the TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
