62 GOVERNANCE INTERNAL CONTROL The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of rationale and support for the significant line item components internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To full this comprising the balance sheets for each business in the Group.
responsibility the Directors have established a Performance Investment project authorisation all significant investment Management framework within which each of the Groups businesses project expenditures are subject to a formal investment project operates.
Within this framework, the management of each of the authorisation process, which takes into account, inter alia, businesses considers strategic, operational, commercial and financial operational, financial and technical risks.
For significant investment risks and identies risk mitigation actions.
Whilst acknowledging the projects, a post-investment analysis is completed to facilitate overall responsibility for the system of internal control, the Directors continuous improvement in the investment planning process, are aware that the system is designed to manage rather than including risk identication and mitigation.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Reporting, analysis and forecasts all businesses are required provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material to report monthly to the Corporate Centre on financial performance.
Comparisons are made with plan, forecast and prior year and During the period under review, the Directors were not aware significant variances and changes in the business environment are of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss to explained.
Each business reassesses its forecast for the financial year the Group.
Quarterly, each business prepares a forecast The Performance Management framework, which includes an for the following eighteen months and reviews projections for the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the current and following year.
significant risks faced by the Group, has been in place throughout Financial strategy the financial strategy includes assessment the financial year and up to the approval date of the Directors Report of the major financial risks related to interest rate exposure, foreign and Accounts.
Each business units management identies and currency exposure, debt maturity and liquidity.
There is a assesses the key business risks affecting the achievement of its comprehensive global insurance programme using the external objectives.
Business unit management also identies the risk insurance market and some limited use of an internal captive management processes used to mitigate the key risks to an insurance company.
Group Treasury manages hedging activities, acceptable level and, where appropriate, additional actions required to relating to financial risks, with external cover for net currency further manage and mitigate them.
The risk summaries developed out transaction exposures.
The Group Tax function manages tax of this process are updated at least annually.
In addition, Corporate compliance and tax risks associated with the Groups activities.
Centre management considers those risks to the Groups strategic The Audit Committee, through the Finance Committee, oversees objectives that may not be identied and managed at the business the financial strategy as well as the tax strategy and considers the unit level.
associated risks and risk management techniques being used by In connection with quarterly business reviews, relevant the Group.
executives discuss risk management activities with Corporate Centre Reporting certications in connection with the preparation of management.
The key risks and mitigation strategies are also the annual and quarterly financial statements, senior business general discussed at least annually with the Audit Committee as well as the management and financial management sign a certicate which full Board.
includes a declaration regarding the existence of internal controls, The risk management processes described above are applied to the proper recording of transactions and the identication and major decision-making processes such as acquisitions as well as evaluation of significant business risks.
These certications were operational risks within the business including environmental, health expanded to encompass Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and safety.
of 2002 the Act in support of statements required to be made The other key elements of the Performance Management by Tomkins Chief Executive officer and Finance Director.
See further framework, which constitutes the control environment, are: discussion of Sarbanes-Oxley below.
Business strategy reviews each business is required to prepare Sarbanes-Oxley as a foreign private issuer FPI listed on the a strategic position assessment taking into account the current and NYSE in the US, the Group is subject to the provisions of the Act.
likely future market environment and competitive position of the In particular, Section 404 of the Act requires certications by business with specic consideration given to strategic risk.
The management regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over Corporate Centre management reviews the strategy with each financial reporting and requires the independent auditors to express business and the Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
an opinion on the Boards assertions regarding such internal controls.
Business reviews on a quarterly basis, Corporate Centre Accordingly, the Group has undertaken a project to ensure Tomkins management performs extensive reviews with each business.
is in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Act by These reviews consider current and projected financial and operating 31 December 2006 the effective date for the Group as a FPI.
While results, and address the progress of key strategic and operating the certication and external audit opinion on internal controls over initiatives, the risks affecting their achievement and the actions being financial reporting will be reported in Tomkins US SEC lings, the taken by business unit management to manage the risks and achieve results of Tomkins compliance with the Act will serve to further their objectives.
strengthen the internal control framework for the Group.
Financial plans each business prepares financial plans in The Group has an established internal audit function: the Vice accordance with a dened format, which includes consideration President Business Risk Assurance directs the activities of the internal of risks.
Management at the Corporate Centre reviews the financial auditors on a day-to-day basis and reports directly to the Audit plans with the business units and a summary is presented to the Committee of the Board at least four times a year.
Due to the Board for approval.
importance and signicance of the effort required to achieve Balance sheet reviews business unit and Corporate Centre Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, during the first half of 2005, the Board financial management conduct periodic, on-site reviews of underlying directed substantially all internal audit resources towards supporting TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GOVERNANCE 63 the Sarbanes-Oxley project described above.
Internal audits support primarily assisted management in completing controls documentation, assessing design effectiveness and developing test plans.
Internal audits support is expected to continue in 2006 but will shift to testing the operating effectiveness of controls in higher risk areas and providing the Board with assurance over managements testing process in other risk areas.
However, with the Sarbanes-Oxley compliance extension for FPIs to 31 December 2006, the majority of internal audit resources were re-deployed to perform internal audit reviews in areas other than financial reporting controls for the last half of 2005.
The Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2005 has been reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance for directors in the Combined Code.
