CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS In June 1998 the Hampel Committee and the London Stock Exchange published the Combined Code on corporate governance.
This combines the Cadbury Code on corporate governance, the Greenbury Code on directors remuneration and new requirements arising from the findings of the Hampel Committee.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Company has complied throughout the period with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code except for the provisions of A6.1.
In this regard to A6.1 the Board does not currently undertake formal appraisal of its own performance and that of its committees but is currently in the process of completing such an appraisal.
The Board considers this non-compliance with the Combined Code to be justified in view of the size of the Group and in this respect supports the recommendations of the City Group for smaller companies.
The Company complies with all other provisions of the code.
Code Provision D. 3.1 requires the members of the audit committee to be named in the report and financial statements.
Mr. W. A. McIntosh Chairman, Mr. V. H. Watson and Mr. J. M. Jack have served on the committee throughout the period.
Attendance at Board Committee meetings The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the 52 week period ended 1 October 2005 and the attendance record of the individual directors.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Of directors committee committee committee Number of meetings 8221 B. F. J. Bester 8221 N. D. Ounstead 82 N A N A A. Liggett 82 N A1 W. A. McIntosh 7221 V. H. Watson 8221 J. M. Jack 8221 S. K. M. Williams Stepped down on 31 03 2005 4 2 N A N A Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied in connection with directors remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Alan McIntosh and is authorised by the Board to liaise with the external auditors on the nature and scope of the audits, review the Audit Report and its findings and to ensure the Companys internal control systems are adequate via liaison with the Internal Audit department.
TOPPS TILES PLC 29 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Victor Watson CBE and is authorised by the Board to maintain an ongoing review with the purpose of making recommendations for Board appointments.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making annual presentations and communicating regularly throughout the year.
The Company also posts financial information on its website www.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been put in place from the start of the period to the date of the approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purposes of this annual report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report including the work of internal audit.
The audit committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
TOPPS TILES PLC 30 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
