TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Corporate governance For the year ended 31 December 2005 Combined code In June 1998, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance was issued by the London Stock Exchange, and this was revised in July 2003 the Code.
Section 1 of the Code is applicable to companies.
A statement on how the company has applied the principles and a statement explaining the extent to which it has complied with the provisions of the Code appear below.
The Code contains fourteen main principles of governance, which are divided into the following four areas: 1.
DIRECTORS The company is controlled through a board of directors, which presently comprises the chairman, three executive and four non-executive directors.
Tim Stevenson is chairman and Geoff Cooper is chief executive.
Michael Dearden is the senior independent non-executive director.
Chris Bunker, John Coleman, and Andrew Simon are also independent non-executive directors.
Appointments of new directors are made by the board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
All directors will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at least ten times a year.
It is responsible for overall group strategy, policy on corporate governance issues, acquisition policy, approval of major capital expenditure and consideration of significant financial and operational matters.
It monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction of the trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets and progress towards the achievement of those budgets and their capital expenditure programmes.
It also considers legislative, environmental, health and safety and employment issues.
The board has approved a written statement of the division of key responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director is able to make an effective contribution.
He also monitors the information provided to the board to ensure it is sufficient, timely and clear, and from time to time the board reviews the adequacy of this information.
The board held eleven meetings during 2005.
Peter Maydon missed one meeting because of illness.
John Coleman missed two meetings because of prior commitments, one of these following a change of date of the meeting.
Otherwise, all meetings were attended by all directors.
One meeting dealt with consideration of the companys long-term strategy and eight meetings were either combined with visits to parts of the companys operations or included presentations by senior executives on their areas of responsibility.
Individual visits to operational sites by non-executive directors also occurred.
In addition to the regular board meetings, key financial information is circulated to directors outside of meetings.
The chairman has regular direct contact with the executive directors and keeps the non-executive directors informed of material developments between board meetings.
All directors have direct access to the company secretary and are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
The company maintains directors & officers insurance in respect of the risk of claims against directors.
The chairman held one meeting during the year with all the non-executive directors, without the executive directors being present and several meetings with some of the non-executive directors, also without the executive directors being present.
The senior independent director held two meetings during the year with the other directors, without the chairman being present, to review the chairmans role and salary.
He also held individual discussions with the other directors to evaluate the chairmans performance, as described in more detail below.
The board has adopted an induction process for new directors and this is facilitated by the company secretary.
The chairman ensures that all directors receive appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently as needed, taking into account 30 their need to update their skills and their knowledge of the companys business.
TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The board has established four standing committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, and the Executive Committee, which operate within defined terms of reference.
Details are available on the companys website or may be obtained from the company secretary.
The minutes of committee meetings are available to all the directors.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee met seven times, the Nominations Committee once, and the Audit Committee four times.
All these meetings were attended by all members of the relevant committee, except that Peter Maydon did not attend a Nominations Committee meeting because of illness.
The reports of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, and the Nominations Committee are on pages 34 and 35, 36 to 44 and 45 respectively.
The Executive Committee was established in June 2005.
Its members are described on page 29.
Other executives are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific issues.
The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist the executive directors in the performance of their duties in relation in particular to:- Strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets The monitoring of operational and financial performance The assessment and control of risk The prioritisation and allocation of resources The committee met six times and all meetings were attended by all members.
During the year the board undertook an evaluation of its performance and the performance of its committees and the individual directors.
The process took the form of interviews by the chairman except in regard to his own performance with each other director and the company secretary separately, focussing on a number of statements about the operation of the board, its committees and each director.
These interviews formed the basis of a report by the chairman that was the subject of a discussion by the board and the committees.
The chairman also gave individual feedback to each director on his own performance.
The board was satisfied that the process showed that the board and its committees worked effectively.
Nevertheless, the board and the committees agreed a number of specific measures aimed at further enhancing their performance, in particular in the following areas: The training of directors through briefings on current issues and presentations by management: The presentation of information to the board and its committees: Establishment of corporate values: The communication of board decisions and policies throughout the group In addition, during the year, the senior independent director led a process for appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Each director responded to a questionnaire relating to aspects of the chairmans role, and the responses were the subject of a discussion between the senior independent director and the other directors without the chairman being present.
The senior independent director subsequently reported to the full board.
A board evaluation process will be carried out in 2006.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee consists of the chairman and two independent non-executive directors, and meets at least four times a year.
Its responsibilities include a review of the performance of executive directors and other senior executives prior to determining their remuneration.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board of directors as a whole.
No director plays a part in the discussion about his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 36 to 44.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT A review of the performance of the groups trading subsidiaries and the financial position of the group is included in the chief executives review, the chief operating officers report and in the finance directors report set out on pages 6 to 26.
The board 31 uses them, together with the chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, to present a full assessment of the companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described on page 49.
TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Internal control The board of directors is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In designing the system of internal control, consideration is given to the significant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves and the overall cost of controlling them.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The implementation and day-to-day operation of the system of internal controls has been delegated to executive directors and senior management, but the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed by the board in a process that accords with the Turnbull Report.
As part of its corporate governance procedures, the board has received regular reports on specific areas of risk.
If appropriate, these reports include recommendations for improvement in controls or for the management of those risks.
Furthermore, steps continue to be taken to integrate risk management procedures into the groups operations, to extend awareness of the importance of the management of risk and to ensure that recommended improvements brought to the attention of the board are implemented.
In particular, during the year the different risks affecting the group were reviewed with the responsible director or senior executive, and improvements made in the methods of identifying and evaluating these risks, and of recording risk management measures, and in the reporting on those risks.
The effectiveness of these changes will be reviewed during 2006.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the board has carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management procedures, during the year and up until the date of approval of the annual report.
Audit committee and auditors The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 34 and 35.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received orally or in writing.
During the year the chairman, the chief executive, the chief operating officer and the finance director, either separately or together, attended a number of meetings with analysts, and with shareholders representing circa 50 per cent of the issued share capital.
The senior independent director also attended a number of such meetings in 2005.
The chairman, chief executive and finance director report fully to the board on any meetings with shareholders or analysts.
In addition, written reports about the company by analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
As well as sending annual and interim reports to shareholders, the company normally issues trading statements at the Annual General Meeting and around the year end.
All shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors are available for questions and a short business presentation takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
The numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
32 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Corporate governance compliance statement The company is pleased to report that it has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, except: A3.2 Independent non-executive directors did not account for at least half of the board membership.
Ted Adams, who was not considered independent, but who the directors believe gave considerable benefit to shareholders because of his great experience in the builders merchanting industry, retired on 31st December 2005.
B2.1 The Remuneration Committee did not consist wholly of independent non-executive directors as the chairman is one of its members.
The board considers it to be very important that the chairman is closely involved in the establishment and application of the companys remuneration policy.
C3.1 The Audit Committee did not consist wholly of independent non-executive directors.
Ted Adams, who was not considered independent, see A3.2 above retired on 31st December 2005.
