TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Nominations committee report For the year ended 31 December 2005 The Nominations Committee was established in July 2003, board appointments having previously been dealt with by a combined Remuneration & Nominations Committee.
Its principal role is to identify and nominate for board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
It is required to prepare a description of the role, and capabilities required, for any appointment, and to maintain contact with major shareholders about appointments to the board.
It also reviews the induction process for newly appointed directors, reviews annually the time required of non-executive directors, keeps the structure, size and composition of the board under review, and considers board succession planning for both executive and non-executive directors.
During the year, the committee members were Tim Stevenson chairman, together with Ted Adams, Chris Bunker and Peter Maydon, all of whom, except Ted Adams, are independent non-executive directors.
Ted Adams and Peter Maydon retired on 31 December 2005.
A further independent non-executive director will be appointed to the committee during the first half of 2006.
During the year, the committee reviewed the balance of experience on the board, in the light of the forthcoming retirements of Ted Adams and Peter Maydon, and recommended to the board that a further non-executive director should be appointed.
A description of the experience and capabilities required for this appointment was agreed by the committee in consultation with the other directors.
Recruitment consultants, Russell Reynolds, assisted the committee in this process and a number of candidates were interviewed by the committee and by other directors.
As a result, Andrew Simon was appointed on 20 February 2006.
The committee anticipates that it will recommend to the board, the appointment of a further independent non-executive director during the first half of 2006.
The chairman of the Nominations Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
T. E. P. Stevenson Chairman, Nominations Committee 7 March 2006 45
