TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Audit committee report For the year ended 31 December 2005 Role of the audit committee The Audit Committee is responsible for: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company and any formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: Reviewing the companys internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by the board itself, the companys internal control and risk management systems: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: Making recommendations to the board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Reviewing and monitoring the companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The committees full terms of reference are available on the companys website.
Composition of the audit committee Chris Bunker was chairman, and Michael Dearden and Ted Adams were members of the committee throughout the year.
All members of the committee, with the exception of Ted Adams, were considered to be independent.
Ted Adams retired from the board on 31 December 2005.
A further independent non-executive director will be appointed to the committee in the first half of 2006.
The group company secretary, Andrew Pike, is secretary to the Audit Committee.
Meetings and attendance The committee met four times during 2005 to consider inter alia, the annual and interim results.
The chairman of the committee also invited the group chairman, the group finance director, the group chief operating officer, the group financial controller, and the external auditors to attend each meeting.
The group head of business risk and assurance also attended two meetings, following his appointment in July 2005, and the head of internal audit attended three meetings.
During each meeting the external auditors and the head of business risk and assurance were given the opportunity to talk with the committee without the presence of management.
During the year the committee chairman held six meetings or telephone conferences with the head of internal audit or the group head of business risk and assurance and with the external auditors, all without management being present.
Main activities of the committee during the year At its meeting in February, the committee reviewed the annual financial statements of the company and received reports from the internal auditors on control matters and from the external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgement and the financial statements and their comments on statements concerning risk and internal control.
A similar review was undertaken at its August meeting when the interim statements were considered.
At these meetings, and at its meetings in June and November, the committee also dealt with the following particular matters: Following the appointment of a group head of business risk and assurance in July 2005, it reviewed the strategy, staffing 34 and processes of the internal audit department and recommended to the board new terms of reference for that department: TRA VIS PERKINS PLC It reviewed the integration of Wickes into the groups financial systems and controls: It reviewed the companys internal control processes and made recommendations to the board for refining and strengthening those processes: It reviewed the operation of the groups whistleblowing policy: It reviewed the policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work, as referred to below: It reviewed the plans presented by the external auditors for conduct of the year-end audit including terms of engagement, fees and letters of engagement: It reviewed the companys accounting policies and its plans for the introduction of International Accounting Standards and other emerging new regulations: It was advised on the methodology for valuation of the Wickes brand: It reviewed the operation of the groups policy on the use of drugs at its premises: It reviewed the groups policies and processes relating to accounting for stock: It reviewed an evaluation of its work carried out by its members and by the external auditors, and reported to the board on this evaluation.
External auditors The company places great importance on the effectiveness and independence of its external auditors and together with them is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
At its November meeting, the auditors presented to the committee their plans for the forthcoming audit together with details of their proposed fees and how they ensure that their objectivity and independence are not compromised.
It is the role of the committee to ensure compliance with the boards policy in respect of services provided by, and fees paid to, the auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated by the finance director and approved by the Audit Committee.
For other services that may be provided by the auditors, the companys policy is: Audit related services The auditors are invited by the company to undertake those services that they are required to and are most suited to perform.
Such work includes certification in respect of borrowings, stock exchange related reporting and where appropriate, assistance with acquisitions.
Taxation The external auditors assist the group to meet general tax compliance requirements as well as providing advice on acquisitions and tax planning.
Should opportunities arise for them to advise on special tax projects, their suitability is assessed at the time to ensure it would not compromise their audit independence, with the work being tendered where appropriate.
Consulting To avoid any possible conflict of interest the groups policy is not to employ its auditors for general consulting work.
Following its November 2005 meeting, the committee recommended to the board that a resolution be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the external auditors, and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Internal audit As well as its reviews of the internal audit departments strategy and processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2005, the committee received presentations from the head of internal audit, and, subsequently, from the group head of business risk and assurance, who was appointed during the year, about the results of work undertaken by the department, and approved its plans for work in 2006.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
The chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
35 C. J. Bunker Chairman, Audit Committee 7 March 2006
