44 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Directors Corporate Governance.
This statement, together with the There are currently eight directors: Chairman, Sir Victor Blank: Directors Report and the Remuneration Report set out on Chief Executive, Sly Bailey: Senior Independent Director, pages 48 to 56, describes how the Company has applied Peter Birch: two other executive directors: and three other nonthe relevant principles of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code.
The directors biographies are set out on The Board believes that the Company complies with most page 41 and illustrate the directors breadth of experience, which of the Code.
Any exceptions are fully explained.
should ensure an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief The Board is responsible and accountable for the Groups Executive has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself, including the Groups strategic plans, acquisitions The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term or disposals, capital expenditure, all financing matters, annual of three years and may be invited to serve subsequent terms.
operating plan and budget and the Groups operating and Before a non-executive director is proposed for re-election by financial performance.
shareholders, the Nominations Committee meets to consider whether his or her performance continues to be effective The Board meets regularly and a schedule of attendance is shown and whether they demonstrate a commitment to the role.
The committee meets at least once a year to review the performance of the Chairman.
The Board also delegates specific responsibilities to Committees, each of which has clear written Terms of Reference, as The Board believes that all its non-executive directors are described below.
Sir Angus Grossart was until 20 April 2005 nonexecutive Vice Chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland, which The Board did not believe that it was necessary to use external is one of the Companys commercial bankers.
As Sir Angus had resources to review its performance during 2005 but chose to no executive powers in either company and is not involved in evaluate its own performance and that of its Committees through the consideration of the commercial terms of the relationship, an extensive questionnaire sent to each director.
This was a the Company does not believe that this former connection process that it had adopted in 2004, having used the services affects his independence.
For 2005 the form of the questionnaire and the detail of the process itself was reviewed Gary Hoffman is an Executive Director of Barclays Plc.
He is and amended following advice from the independent consultant Chairman of UK Banking and Chairman of Barclaycard.
Although Dr Tracy Long, of Boardroom Review.
The questionnaires were the Company has connections with Barclays, most of its reviewed by the Chairman and Secretary and Group Legal relationships are in areas outside Mr Hoffmans direct control and Director, and a report of findings distributed to each director the Board does not believe that they will affect his independence.
and discussed at a Board meeting.
Every director is subject to re-election by shareholders every Following a Corporate Governance review in 2003 it was agreed three years.
that all non-executive directors should serve as members of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board An assessment is made of any training needs on a directors believes that an increasing amount of work is undertaken by these appointment and the appropriate training provided.
Committees and that a non-executive director can only properly fulfil his or her responsibilities if they are present during committee All directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the meetings and are able to follow the detail of discussion and furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional debate held at those meetings.
Similarly the Chairman, in addition advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
to chairing the Nominations Committee, is a full member of the Remuneration Committee and attends meetings of the Audit The Chairman has declared to the Company his other significant Committee at the invitation of its Chairman.
commitments, notably the Chairmanship of GUS plc.
He became non-executive deputy Chairman of Lloyds TSB plc on 1 March.
As a result of this policy some say that the Company does not He is due to become Chairman of Lloyds TSB after he retires comply with certain parts of the Combined Code in that directors as a director of the Company.
He is also Chairman of the charity who may not be regarded externally as independent serve on WellBeing, on the Council of Oxford University and serves on the Remuneration Committee.
After two years of working with various industry and government committees.
The Board believes this structure the Board believes that the benefits derived from that he devotes sufficient time to the Company to properly and the wider participation of non-executive directors on the Board fully fulfil his responsibilities.
committees justifies this non-compliance and proposes to continue with this practice.
45 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Audit Committee Remuneration Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Peter Birch.
Sir Angus Grossart, The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Gary Hoffman.
Gary Hoffman and David Ross are members.
The Committee Sir Victor Blank, Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart and David Ross meets to review the Groups interim and annual financial statements are also members.
The Committee meets as required during before their submission to the Board, to review the appropriateness the year to review the Companys general policy on executive and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, accounting remuneration, the application of the policy to the remuneration policies and procedures and financial reporting, and otherwise and benefits of the executive directors and to recommend as necessary.
The Group has an internal audit function to enhance and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for the rolling programme of review and improvement to the Groups senior management.
The Remuneration Report set out on pages 48 to 56 contains David Ross is a Chartered Accountant and was Finance Director a more detailed description of the Companys policies and of Carphone Warehouse.
Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart and procedures for executive remuneration.
The Chief Executive, Gary Hoffman each have extensive experience in the financial the Secretary and Group Legal Director and Group HR Director, services industry.
as appropriate, attend meetings of the Committee but they do not participate in discussions on their own remuneration.
The Group Finance Director, other directors, the Groups external auditors and the internal auditors, as appropriate, attend meetings The Committee has formal written terms of reference which of the Committee.
are published on the Companys website.
The Committee has formal written terms of reference which Nomination Committee are published on the Companys website.
The website and The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
All the the Companys intranet also carry details of the Companys non-executive directors and the Chief Executive are members.
whistleblower policy, which has been approved and The Committee meets as required to select and propose to the implemented by the Committee.
Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as directors.
The Committee would normally expect to use the During the year the Committee, with the help of the Head of services of professional external headhunters to help in the Internal Audit, followed a process to review and monitor the search for and selection of candidates.
It followed this practice external auditors independence and objectivity and the in the case of David Ross and Gary Hoffman.
effectiveness of the audit process.
A very extensive questionnaire was sent to the Audit Committee, other Board members and The Committee has formal written terms of reference which senior operational and finance managers across the Group.
The results were analysed by the Head of Internal Audit and a full report was submitted for review by the Audit Committee.
Administration Committee There were no adverse findings.
The report as a whole, however, was discussed with the external auditor.
The Administration Committee consists of the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Secretary and Group Legal Director The Committee reviewed the letter from the External Auditor and meets as necessary to deal with administrative matters confirming their independence and objectivity.
The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation Relations with shareholders on a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply The Company encourages two-way communication with both non-audit services which is designed to ensure that there is no its institutional and private investors and responds quickly to impairment of independence.
all queries received orally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting all directors, including Committee Chairmen, are available for questions.
Twice a year the Director of Corporate Communications, who also runs the Companys investor relations programme, produces a formal report for the Board giving details of comment and feedback received from analysts and institutional investors.
He is present during the Board discussion of this report.
46 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Corporate governance continued In 2005 the Chairman wrote to the 16 largest institutional investors Investment appraisal the Group has a clearly defined in the Company making it clear that he is available to see them framework for capital expenditure which is controlled centrally.
to discuss any issues that they may wish to raise.
Appropriate authorisation levels and limits beyond which such expenditure requires the prior approval of the Capex Committee The principal communication with private investors is through the consisting of the three executive directors and the Director provision of the Annual Report, the interim results and the AGM.
of Group IT or, in certain circumstances, the Board, are clearly Financial and other information is made available on the Companys set.
There is a prescribed format for capital expenditure website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
applications which places a high emphasis on the overall Group strategy or logic for the expenditure, and demands Accountability and audit a comprehensive and sound financial representation of the business case being put forward.
All significant corporate Through the detailed reviews of the performance and financial acquisitions or investments are controlled by the Board position in the Chief Executives statement page 6, and or a Board sub-committee and are subject to detailed the Business Review page 10, together with the Directors investment appraisal and performance of due diligence Report page 57, the Board seeks to present a balanced procedures prior to approval by the Board.
and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial Functional reporting a number of the Groups key statements is described on page 57. functions, including treasury, taxation, internal audit and risk management, litigation, IT strategy and development, Internal control environmental issues and insurance, are dealt with centrally.
Internal financial control Each of these functions reports to the Board on a regular basis, through the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director The directors are responsible for the Groups established system or Secretary and Group Legal Director, as appropriate.
The of internal financial control.
No system of internal financial control treasury function operates within the terms of clearly defined can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement policy statements.
The policy statements exist to ensure that or loss.
Such a system is designed to provide the directors with the Group is not exposed to any unnecessary risk and that reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely where appropriate there is hedging against foreign currency basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key procedures that and interest rate risks.
The Audit Committee reviews reports have been established and designed to provide effective internal from management, the internal audit department and the financial control are: external auditors to provide reasonable assurance that control procedures are in place and are being followed.
Formal Management and organisational structure the existing procedures have been established for instituting appropriate organisational structure is considered appropriate to the action to correct weaknesses identified from the above reports.
This clearly identifies levels of delegated responsibility to operational management.
The performance Risk management of senior management is regularly evaluated and individual employees responsibilities are clearly defined An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing and communicated.
the significant risks faced by the Group has remained in place throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of the Financial reporting part of the comprehensive management Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is subject to regular reporting discipline involves the preparation of detailed annual review by the Board directly and via the Audit Committee.
budgets by all operating units.
These budgets are reviewed This accords with the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control by the executive management and are ultimately summarised for directors, as applicable for this accounting period.
and submitted to the Board for approval.
Weekly revenue and profit returns are received from all operating units followed by Although the Boards overall responsibility for internal control monthly management accounts, which are prepared promptly is recognised, the positive contribution made by senior and reported against the approved budget.
Consolidated management to the establishment and ongoing development monthly management accounts are prepared, including of risk management within the Group is acknowledged.
detailed profit analysis with comparisons to budget, latest forecasts, prior year and consensus market opinion, and treasury report including comparison to the Groups financial covenants, providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date financial and other information to the Board.
Revised profit and cashflow forecasts for the current year are prepared and submitted to the Board at quarterly intervals during the year.
47 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Committee owner of each key risk and the relevant senior control, the Board has taken into consideration a number of managers have documented the plans, actions and initiatives key elements, which include financial and investment controls, which have taken place or are underway.
management reporting, and the various review, steering, policy and Board committees.
Year-end compliance reporting A formal process exists for year-end risk management compliance reporting, requiring The following illustrate how the risk management process and senior operating company, divisional and Group executive the system of internal control operated during the 52-week management to confirm their responsibilities for risk period ended 1 January 2006: management and internal control.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required of each and every Board member.
Group internal audit The Head of Internal Audit has recruited a skilled and experienced team to enable the agreed strategy Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk to be fulfilled.
The internal audit plan is risk-based and has management further into the operations of the business and to a focus on those areas which are critical to the achievement deal with areas of improvement which come to managements of business objectives.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee includes to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable the review, update and approval of the annual internal audit and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
plan: provision of direction to the internal audit function, external auditors and management in the review of internal Further relevant information is included in the Corporate controls: alerting the Board to any emerging issues: and Responsibility Review, published on pages 31 to 39. consideration of the draft papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk management procedures Corporate governance compliance statement adopted by the Company prior to being submitted to the The Company has complied throughout the financial year with Board for approval.
the provisions set out in the July 2003 FRC Combined Code, with the exception of the constitution of the Remuneration Committee Risk Management Group The Risk Management Group Provision B2.1.
is formed of the Executive Committee together with invited senior executives.
The Secretary and Group Legal Director Going concern basis has co-ordinated the risk management activities of the Risk Management Group, working closely with members of After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, the Internal Audit team.
The agreed objectives for the risk at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is management framework have been achieved during the year a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources and the action plans for all significant risks have been reviewed.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Divisional and Group functional key risks To enable For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going consistent and focused monitoring, reporting, evaluation concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
and management of significant Group risks, the Executive Table of attendance Audit Remuneration Main Board Committee Committee AGM Number of meetings in the year 9321 Sly Bailey 9321 Peter Birch 9321 Sir Victor Blank 9321 Sir Angus Grossart 8321 Penny Hughes 41 1 Gary Hoffman 4111 David Marlow 4111 David Ross 8321 Vijay Vaghela 93 1 Paul Vickers 9321 Gary Hoffman was appointed to the Board on 3 March 2005.
The dates for the years board meetings had been set before his appointment and there was an unavoidable clash on two occasions.
Penny Hughes and David Marlow left the Board on 5 May 2005.
