Corporate Governance year ended 31 December 2005 The Tullow Board is committed to business integrity independent non-executive Directors.
The Board remains and high ethical values across the Groups activities.
of the view that Pat Plunkett should continue in this As an essential part of this commitment, the Board role since he brings considerable knowledge of the supports high standards of corporate governance.
management roles and responsibilities within the Group which enables him to discharge his duties in an Compliance with FRC Combined Code informed and properly independent manner.
The Board on Corporate Governance also considers that as he and Rohan Courtney have This report describes how the Company has applied been members of the Committee throughout the period the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of major growth enjoyed by the Company in the last five on Corporate Governance the Code published by the years, they bring a long term perspective and continuity Financial Reporting Council.
It also discloses the extent to the Committee.
to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
Details of how Tullow has applied the principles of the Code in relation to Directors remuneration are contained The Board considers that the Company has complied in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35. with the provisions of the Code throughout the year under review and subsequently up to the date of this report Board of Directors with the following two exceptions: Composition Following the appointment of Paul McDade as an Executive Director, the Board will comprise a Throughout 2005, the Board comprised a non-executive non-executive Chairman, six Executive Directors and Chairman, five Executive Directors and four independent four non-executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors non-executive Directors.
As independent non-executive has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
Directors therefore comprise less than half of the The majority of the non-executive Directors either have Board, the Boards composition is not as recommended held, or currently hold, senior appointments in oil and by the Code.
gas companies or companies with energy interests and, together, the non-executive Directors bring a broad range On 16 February 2006, it was announced that Adrian Nel of business and commercial experience to the Board.
would be retiring as Exploration Director with effect from Biographies of the Board members are set out on page 27. the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 31 May 2006.
The appointment of Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer, Role of the Board The Board is accountable to to the Board was made with effect from 29 March 2006. shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, Separately, in 2005, the Nominations Committee sustainable financial performance and long-term commenced the process to recruit an additional shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs independent non-executive Director.
and monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed Following the retirement of Adrian Nel, and once the effectively.
It sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring appointment of a new independent non-executive director that the necessary resources are in place to achieve has been made, half of the Board will then consist those aims, and reviews management and financial of independent non-executive Directors.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the Groups core values and standards of business Throughout 2005, Pat Plunkett the Company Chairman conduct and for ensuring that these, together with the continued as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely Consequently, that Committee is not made up solely of understood throughout the Group.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 Corporate Governance continued Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear Election and re-election All Directors are required by separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief the Companys articles of association to be elected by Executive.
The division of responsibilities has been shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
agreed and set out in writing by the Board.
Subsequently, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
The Chairmans key responsibilities are the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays How the Board operates a full and constructive part in the development and Board meetings The Board meets regularly during the determination of the Groups strategy, and acting as year and on an ad hoc basis as required.
The attendance guardian of the Boards decision-making process.
record of each Director is shown in the table on page 31.
During 2005 the Board met on ten occasions including The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive are a formal strategy review held with senior management managing the Groups business, proposing and developing in November.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain in consultation with the Board and, as leader of the frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any executive team, implementing the decisions of the Board issues of concern they may have relating to the Group or and its Committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive is as regards their area of responsibility and to keep them responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with major fully briefed on ongoing matters relating to the Groups shareholders as part of the Companys overall investor operations.
Information flow Directors have access to a regular Non-Executive Directors supply of financial, operational and strategic information Appointment Non-executive Directors are appointed for to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Such an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, they may serve information is provided as part of the normal management one or more three year terms subject to satisfactory reporting cycle undertaken by senior management.
The letters of appointment of each nonpapers are generally circulated seven days in advance of executive Director are available for inspection.
In addition, each Board meeting includes a review of the history, performance and future potential Meetings of Non-Executive Directors In addition to of an individual asset or business unit designed to ensure their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, Committee that all material assets are considered on a cyclical basis meetings, the non-executive Directors also met formally on and to enable Board members to familiarise themselves two occasions during 2005 without executive management with the key assets and operations of the Group.
The non-executive Directors examine and review the performance of the executive management: this review Independent professional advice All Directors and process is in part dealt with by the Board Committees Committees have access to independent professional referred to below.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief advice, at the Companys expense, as and when required.
Executive held informal meetings with the non-executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group such as Insurance cover The Company maintains Directors target objectives, remuneration matters etc.
and Officers Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is Rohan Courtney.
In this role he is available to Matters reserved and delegations A formal schedule shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved of matters reserved for Board approval is in place and through discussion with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
The matters reserved include: the Groups overall strategy, approval of annual and interim Independence The Board considers each of the current results, material acquisitions and disposals, material non-executive Directors to be independent of management contracts and major capital expenditure projects and and free from any business or other relationships that budgets.
Subject to those reserved matters, the Board could materially interfere with the exercise of their delegates authority for the management of the business independent judgement.
The Board recognises that primarily to the Chief Executive and a senior executive Rohan Courtneys independence may be called into committee.
Certain other matters are delegated to the question, given that he has served on the Board for Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, more than nine years.
Nevertheless, the Board considers each of which is described in more detail below.
that Mr Courtneys independence is not prejudiced or compromised by his length of service: when taken with his experience and knowledge of the Groups business, he remains an independent, challenging and valuable contributor to the Board.
Rohan Courtney will be proposed for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
30 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at Committees Board meetings and Committee members at Committee The Board has established the following principal meetings during 2005 was as follows: Committees, each of which has written terms of reference approved by the Board setting out its authority and Board Audit Remuneration Nominations duties.
Copies of the terms of reference can be viewed No.
of Meetings 10 6 6 3 on the investor relations section of the Companys Pat Plunkett 10 6 3 website www.
com or can be obtained from the Aidan Heavey 10 2 Company Secretary.
David Bamford 10 6 6 3 Rohan Courtney 10 6 6 3 Audit Committee Tom Hickey 9 This Committee currently comprises Rohan Courtney Steven McTiernan 10 6 6 3 Chairman, David Bamford, Steven McTiernan and Graham Martin 9 Clare Spottiswoode.
Adrian Nel 10 Matthew ODonoghue 10 Rohan Courtney and Steven McTiernan both have Clare Spottiswoode 8 6 6 3 extensive banking and financial experience, whilst Clare Spottiswoode has had experience as a member of the Performance evaluation In 2004, the Board conducted audit committees of three other public companies.
Based a detailed evaluation of its own performance and its upon this, the Board is satisfied that, in aggregate, the Committees and of individual directors with the assistance Audit Committee members have the appropriate level of of an independent facilitator.
This review focused on such recent and relevant financial experience.
matters as Board composition and strategic capability, ongoing development, external and internal relationships, The main responsibilities of the Committee are: risk management, and conduct of Board and Committee Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and meetings.
In December 2005, the Board commissioned formal announcements relating to the Groups financial a follow-up to the evaluation conducted in 2004.
Overall, performance: it was concluded that the Board continues to operate in an effective manner and that there were no items arising Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and from the follow-up review which, in the Boards view, gave accounting policies and disclosures in financial reports: rise to material concern.
The Board is also satisfied that Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal no individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards control procedures and risk management systems: decision making.
Certain matters for improvement were identified from the evaluation and these are being Reviewing the companys whistle-blowing procedures: addressed.
The Board intends to continue to conduct Making recommendations to the Board as to the evaluations on an annual basis, although the scope appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external and format may be varied as deemed appropriate.
auditors: and The Chairman has had conversations with each of the Overseeing the selection of new auditors and directors on their individual performance.
Separately, the overseeing the relationship with the external auditor.
non-executive Directors have reviewed the performance The Groups auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, were of the Chairman in his absence.
re-appointed in 2004 following a tender process.
The Committee monitors the level of audit and non-audit Induction Detailed training and briefing is provided services provided by the Companys auditors.
Non-audit to Directors on appointment, taking into account their services are normally limited to assignments that are individual background and experience.
This includes a closely related to the annual audit or where the work visit to the key offices of the Group to meet line is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the management from each functional discipline and business Group is necessary.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the unit.
The Company Secretary also provides new Directors external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work with an overview of their duties as Directors, corporate is included in note 3 of the accounts on page 52.
In governance policies and established Board procedures addition to processes put in place to ensure segregation as part of the induction process.
of audit and non-audit roles, as part of the assurance process in relation to the audit, Deloitte are required Continuing Professional Development All members of to confirm to the Committee that they have both the the Board have access to appropriate training in respect appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them of their obligations and duties as Directors.
During the to continue to serve the members of the Company.
year, briefings on particular subject matters were given, No matters of concern were identified by the Committee.
including corporate governance, the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards and the new Listing and Disclosure Rules.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 Corporate Governance continued The Chief Financial Officer and a representative of the Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, external auditors normally attend meetings of the Audit candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when Committee, at the invitation of the Committee.
The they arise: Chairman of the Board also attends meetings of the Reviewing annually the time commitment required of Committee by invitation.
The external auditors have non-executive Directors: unrestricted access to the Committee Chairman.
Making recommendations to the Board with regard to During 2005 the Audit Committee met on a total of six membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees occasions.
The key work undertaken by the Committee in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee.
was as follows:- The Committee met three times in 2005, primarily to review board appointment and succession issues.
Transition to IFRS Towards the end of the year the Committee drew up a Tullow adopted IFRS with effect from 1 January 2004 specification and commenced the search for a new nonwith the exception of IAS39 which was adopted with executive director.
A firm of external search consultants effect from 1 January 2005.
The Committee was closely was appointed to identify suitable candidates for this role.
involved along with Group senior management and The Committee is expected to make a recommendation representatives from the external Auditors in the selection to the Board for the appointment of a new independent and approval of appropriate accounting policies and non-executive director in the near future.
also in the review and approval of the 2004 IFRS results statement published on 23 August 2005.
This exercise Separately, in view of the impending retirement of was undertaken to ensure that Tullows IFRS accounting Adrian Nel as Exploration Director, the Committee policies and disclosures, most notably in relation to Oil agreed in conjunction with senior management on the and Gas Interests IFRS 6, Acquisition and Business specification for a new senior exploration executive to Combinations IAS 12 and Financial Derivatives IAS 39 assume responsibility for the Companys exploration are appropriate to the nature of Tullows business and its activities upon Mr Nels retirement.
External search stage of development.
consultants were appointed for this appointment and, on the Committees recommendation the Board, in Review of Annual and Interim Results February 2006, approved the appointment of Angus The Committee held a number of meetings to review both McCoss as General Manager Exploration.
Mr McCoss the 2004 annual and the 2005 interim results, the latter will join Tullow in April 2006. representing Tullows first IFRS Reports.
During 2005, Tullow completed the Schooner and Ketch acquisition and In March 2006, the Board endorsed the Committees also divested certain and UK and African oil and gas recommendation that Paul McDade, Chief Operating interests.
Consequently, the Committee gave detailed Officer be appointed to the Board.
consideration to the fair values attributed to the acquired assets and accounting for and disclosure of the relevant Remuneration Committee profit or loss on disposals.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41 contains details of the Remuneration Committee.
Establishment of a Group Internal Audit Function During 2005, the Committee approved the recruitment of Shareholder Relations a Group Internal Audit Manager with a view to establishing Communication with shareholders is given high priority an internal audit function within Tullow.
The Chairman and there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, of the Audit Committee assisted Executive Management as well as general presentations to analysts at the in the recruitment process.
The Internal Audit Manager, time of the release of the annual and interim results.
who has extensive oil industry experience will have direct The Board receives regular investor relations reports access and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
covering key investor meetings and activities, as well as shareholder and investor feedback.
The Group issues Nominations Committee its results promptly to individual shareholders and also The current members of the Nominations Committee, are publishes them on the Investor Relations section of the Pat Plunkett Chairman, Aidan Heavey, Rohan Courtney, Companys website.
The Companys website address is Steven McTiernan, Clare Spottiswoode and David Bamford.
Regular updates to record news in relation to the Company and the status of exploration The main responsibilities of the Committee are: and development programmes are also included on the Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can Board and making recommendations to the Board with subscribe to receive these news updates by e-mail by regard to any changes required: registering online on the website.
Succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: 32 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The Chairman is available to meet with institutional During 2005, the Audit Committee in conjunction with shareholders to discuss any issues and gain an executive management approved the establishment understanding of any concerns in relation to the Companys of an internal audit function for the first time and in governance and strategy.
Non-executive Directors have the March 2006 an internal audit manager was recruited to opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders join Tullow.
He reports to the Audit Committee and has and are available to attend if requested to do so.
responsibility for evaluating and developing the Groups overall control environment, operating efficiency and risk At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for identification and management at operating, regional and shareholders benefit and individual shareholders are corporate levels.
In fulfilling his role, the Group Internal given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, Audit Manager, will operate under a Charter approved the chairmen of the principal Board Committees and to by the Committee and will have regular access to the other members of the Board.
In addition, the Board is Committee without reference to executive management.
committed to maintaining strong links with its significant Irish shareholder base and holds a business presentation Going Concern in Ireland following the AGM, to allow these shareholders After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable similar access to the directors.
Notice of the AGM is sent expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole to shareholders at least 20 working days before the have adequate resources to continue in operational meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they resolution, together with abstentions, are made available continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Internal Controls In September 1999, the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code was published.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups and the Companys systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
The Groups internal control procedures require Board, technical and financial approval for all projects.
All major expenditures require senior management approval at the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, consider that the system of internal control operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33
