Corporate Governance The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies to disclose how they comply with the principles of good governance and code of best practice known as the Combined Code.
The Code, originally adopted in 1998, was revised during 2003 and this is the first year in which the Company is required to comply with the revised Code.
This statement, which incorporates the statement on corporate social responsibility, explains how the Company has applied the principles of good governance set out in the new Combined Code.
The Board During the year Business Post maintained an equal balance of executive and non-executive directors, bringing a wide range of skills and experience to the Board.
Biographical details of all directors are set out in the Directors and Advisers statement.
Of the five non-executive directors, Dennis Clark and Philip Stephens are judged to be independent according to the guidelines set out in the Combined Code, and Dennis Clark has been appointed by the Board to be the senior independent director.
Michael and Peter Kane are not judged to be independent due to their significant shareholdings, and Bill Cockburn is not judged to be independent due to his consultancy contract with UK Mail.
All the non-executive directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board and its committees, and no one individual or group dominates the Boards decision-making process.
All directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The names of those directors standing for re-election to the Board this year are set out in the Notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There are two non-executive directors standing for re-election at the AGM and the Board strongly supports their re-election for the reasons set out in the Directors Report.
The Boards focus is on strategy formulation, policy and control.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board which retains all major operational and risk management decisions with the Board.
These include the approval of major items of expenditure or commitment, including acquisitions: major operational projects, including new contract wins: financing, including lease buy decisions and the use of derivatives and insurance: and changes in policy relating to the franchise network.
The Board routinely monitors the various financial, operational and commercial risks facing the Company through reports from management.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board, and the Chief Executive for the running of the business and implementation of Board strategy and policy.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and this has been agreed by the Board.
The Board meets formally at least 8 times a year, with other meetings as necessary.
The Board receives reports in advance of each meeting from the Chief Executive and Finance Director addressing the financial performance of the Company and developments since the previous meeting, with further reports on particular issues as appropriate.
Reports are also supplied to directors in months when a Board meeting does not take place.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and there is a procedure whereby directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board has a number of committees, the principal ones being the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
Membership of these committees and their principal terms of reference are set out in the table below.
Business Post Group plc Board of directors Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Philip Stephens Chairman, Dennis Clark Chairman, Dennis Clark, Peter Kane Peter Kane, Philip Stephens Sets remuneration for all executive directors, Assists the Board in fulfilling its including share-based incentives, pensions responsibilities in respect of: Nomination Committee and other benefits.
overseeing the Groups financial statements, Peter Kane Chairman, Monitors the level and structure of Paul Carvell, Dennis Clark, monitoring the adequacy of internal controls remuneration for the first layer of Bill Cockburn, Philip Stephens and risk management processes, management below Board level.
Leads the process for, and recommends to the the selection, compensation, independence and Approves initial grants and subsequent exercise Board, all appointments to the Board.
performance of the Groups external auditors, of all share-based incentives.
Reviews succession planning for the Board.
the independence and performance of the Responsible for appointing remuneration Groups internal auditor.
25 Business Post Group plc Corporate Governance Peter Kane is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees, resulting in non-compliance with the Combined Codes provisions that membership of the audit and remuneration committees should comprise entirely independent directors, and that the nomination committee should comprise a majority of independent directors.
However, with over 30 years of in-depth experience of the business, and as a significant shareholder, the Board believes that his membership of these committees is appropriate and that he brings an invaluable knowledge and experience to their operation.
The following table shows the attendance of directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees during the year.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number held 8 4 4 1 Guy Buswell 7 Paul Carvell 8 4 4 1 Dennis Clark 7 4 4 1 Bill Cockburn 8 4 4 1 Peter Fitzwilliam 8 4 Russell Hodgson 8 Michael Kane 7 Peter Kane 8 4 4 1 Alec Ross 8 Richard Saville resigned 31 May 2004 1 1 2 Philip Stephens 8 2 4 1 Attendance by directors who are not members of the committee was at the request of the Chairman of the committee.
During the year, the directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its committees.
The individual directors initially completed separate questionnaires, and the results were compiled and analysed by the Company Secretary, who prepared a summary report for the Board.
The areas covered included Board and committee composition, dynamics and accountability: preparation for and performance at meetings: and induction and professional development.
In addition to regular Board meetings, the Chairman regularly convenes meetings of the non-executive directors to assess the performance of the Board in the absence of the executive directors.
The performance of the Chairman was considered as part of the questionnaires completed by the directors and discussed separately by the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
The Board and its committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively.
Directors Remuneration The Board considers that the Company complies with the main principles of the Combined Code in relation to remuneration, by having a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of directors.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
A significant proportion of remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
The Board believes that levels of remuneration are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, but without paying more than is necessary.
Details of directors remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Relations with Shareholders Whilst there is a substantial shareholding represented on the Board, the Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
Two-way communication with institutional investors, analysts and private investors is actively pursued, and a series of presentations and meetings are held through the year, carefully recognising statutory constraints concerning the disclosure of information.
Feedback from these meetings is collated by the Companys advisers and circulated to members of the Board to ensure that they are kept informed concerning the views of shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman periodically attends meetings with shareholders, and non-executive directors are invited to attend results presentations.
Report & Accounts 26 Corporate Governance This years Annual General Meeting will be held on 12 July 2005 at which time the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will be available to answer shareholder questions.
The Company will continue its practice of proposing individual resolutions, including separate resolutions relating to the Directors Report and Accounts and the Remuneration Report, and of reporting the proxy voting in respect of each resolution.
Accountability and Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit of the Group for that period.
After making due enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
In preparing the accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Business Post Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of those matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Internal Controls The Board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide it with reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal financial control and compliance with laws and regulations.
There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and, accordingly, even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance.
The Turnbull report issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in September 1999 provided further guidance as to how the Combined Code principles on internal control should be applied in practice.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the Turnbull report throughout the year.
There is a formal ongoing process for identifying, managing and reviewing any changes in the risks faced by the Company.
This process operates under the direction of, and is regularly reviewed by, the Board.
The key features of the internal control system within the Group are: clearly defined delegation of responsibilities, including relevant authorisation levels, clearly documented internal procedures set out in operational and administration manuals, regular compliance audit visits to all owned and franchised locations which monitor compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of financial information, review of financial procedures by the internal auditor, close personal involvement of executive directors in monitoring and managing the main risk areas of the business, regular information provided to senior management, covering financial performance and key business indicators, and monthly monitoring of results against budget and forecast, with major variances being followed up and management action taken where necessary.
Details of the Groups activities in relation to its environmental, employment and health and safety responsibilities are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement.
27 Business Post Group plc Corporate Governance The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems during the period covered by the accounts and up to the date of the approval of the accounts.
This review covered all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Audit Committee and Auditors The membership and principal terms of reference of the audit committee are set out above.
The committee is chaired by Dennis Clark who, as a qualified accountant and the finance director of Hunting plc, is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
During the year, the committee met four times to discharge its responsibilities.
These responsibilities included: Monitoring the integrity of the half year and annual financial statements, by considering reports from the Finance Director and the external auditors setting out the basis of preparation of the results and the principal reporting judgements therein: reviewing the Companys internal controls, by considering reports from both the internal and external auditors during the year and an annual report on the effectiveness of internal controls from the Chief Executive and Finance Director: monitoring the scope and effectiveness of the internal auditor, by considering work plans, reports throughout the year and attendance at audit committee meetings: monitoring the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and approving their terms of engagement and remuneration: developing a policy for the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and monitoring the Companys whistleblowing procedures.
In addition, during a review of the earn-out accounts for UK Pallets, a business acquired in July 2003, the committee appointed the external auditors to conduct a review of the accounting records of UK Pallets, and subsequently reviewed this work at separately convened meetings.
In appointing , the committee had regard to the need to maintain auditor objectivity and independence.
Compliance with the Combined Code With the exception of the composition of its committees, where the Code requires a greater proportion of members to be non-executive directors judged to be independent, the Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code 2003 throughout the financial year.
