Corporate governance Combined code compliance This section describes how the Group has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published in July 2003 the Code.
A summary of the Groups compliance position throughout the year follows with details of any exceptions.
Main Board The Board deals with the important aspects of the Groups affairs including setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring that the Group has adequate financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, to which certain key responsibilities are delegated.
These responsibilities, which are in line with the recommendations of the Combined Code, are set out below.
At the end of 2005 the main Board comprised the Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
The former Chairman, Peter Macfarlane, retired after the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Julian Blogh, who had previously been Chief Executive, was appointed Chairman.
This appointment followed consultations with major shareholders who supported this step.
Dr Blogh was replaced as Chief Executive by Douglas Caster, an existing executive Director and previously Chief Operating Officer of the Group.
As senior independent non-executive Director, Andrew Walker has particular responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for safeguarding the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Christopher Bailey replaced Mr Macfarlane as an independent non-executive Director.
Ian Griffiths continues in his role as an independent non-executive Director.
Although the Code calls for the majority of the Board to be independent non-executive Directors, it is the view of the Directors that the current structure of the Board is appropriate for Ultra given the relative complexity of the business and the desire of the Board to maintain a flexible, rapid and informed decision-making process.
Any further increase in the number of non-executive Directors at this time would result in reduced focus, slower decisions and a higher cost base.
David Jeffcoat, who was appointed to the Board in 2000, is both Finance Director and Company Secretary, reporting to the Chief Executive.
Although this does not follow best governance practice, which calls for the roles to be separated and for the Company Secretary to report directly to the Chairman, Ultras lean management structure does not permit extra costs to be incurred by appointing an independent Company Secretary.
The Board believes that Mr Jeffcoat is able to effectively maintain sufficient separation of his two roles to avoid any significant conflicts of interest.
The Board met ten times during the year.
Details of the numbers of meetings of the main Board and its sub-committees that were attended by the individual Directors are set out in the table on page 36.
Key decisions that are delegated to the Chief Executive include the approval of budgeted capital investments below 500,000 in value, major contract bids below 100.0 million, the appointment and dismissal of business unit Managing Directors and setting their individual levels of remuneration, and charitable donations with the advice of an internal charities committee.
Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control procedures throughout the Group, although the Audit Committee monitors the internal financial control procedures that are operated by the Group and their effectiveness.
During 2005 the Audit Committee initially comprised Andrew Walker, Committee Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, Ian Griffiths and Peter Macfarlane.
Christopher Bailey joined the committee in January 2005, whilst Mr Macfarlane left the Committee when he retired in April 2005.
Mr Bailey was Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc for seven years until his retirement in 2004.
His recent financial experience is of great benefit to the Board.
The Committee met five times during the year.
The main topics considered during the meetings were: agreeing the strategy and scope of planned internal and external audit activities: reviewing the outcome of internal and external audits carried out and agreeing upon the necessary actions: reviewing the financial results of the Group and the formal external announcements relating to them: monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions, both of which are carried out by professional accounting firms on behalf of the Group: assessing the risk that the Groups financial statements are materially mis-stated as a result of fraud, and re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as external auditors.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee continued It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP, Ultras external auditors, are restricted to regulatory reporting, training and consultancy services connected with responding to new reporting requirements, due diligence assignments of larger potential acquisition targets and other attestation work.
In connection with due diligence assessments, the Board believes that the auditors familiarity with the accounting techniques that are involved in the Groups long-term contracting activities serves them well in carrying out effective due diligence reviews of other similar companies.
Appropriate controls are in place to ensure that the objectivity and independence of Deloitte & Touche LLP is safeguarded.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee was chaired by Peter Macfarlane and met once during 2005.
Following the retirement of Mr Macfarlane, Julian Blogh has taken over as Chairman.
Douglas Caster was appointed to the Nominations Committee with effect from April 2005.
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review all main Board and sub-committee appointments.
The main action taken by the Committee during the year was to recommend the appointment of Christopher Bailey as a non-executive Director and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees with effect from January 2005.
Remuneration Committee The Board Remuneration Committee consists of Andrew Walker, Chairman, Christopher Bailey and Ian Griffiths.
Peter Macfarlane was also a member of the Committee until April 2005.
It met six times during the year.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the executive Directors, including the Chief Executive, and for setting their levels of remuneration.
A Directors remuneration report is included on page 39, together with details of the Directors pension entitlements, long term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
Evaluation of Board and Committee effectiveness Following the recommendations of the Code, the Board has introduced an evaluation process in which the effectiveness of the Board, its sub-committees and each individual Director are assessed over a two year rolling period.
In 2004 the main Board and its sub-committees were reviewed with the assistance of external consultants.
This review was based upon a questionnaire that was completed independently by all members of the Board.
The scope of the review covered the Board structure, processes and administration, together with the distribution of information.
Its results were communicated to the Directors in a written report, considered at a separate meeting and a number of actions were agreed as a result.
Subsequently during 2005 the contribution of each individual Director was assessed by the rest of the Board.
This stage was based upon a self-assessment questionnaire that was completed by each individual Director and also by each of the remaining Board members.
The results of this survey were summarised and fed back separately to each individual and in total to the Chairman.
Again this process was designed and coordinated by external consultants.
The intention is to repeat this review cycle every two years in the future.
Directors re-election Douglas Caster and Andrew Hamment are retiring by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and standing for re-election.
Andrew Walker has served as an independent non-executive Director for more than nine years and is therefore required to stand for re-election annually.
The complexity of the Groups activities, his previous experience as an executive Director of several major groups and his extensive knowledge of Ultra mean that he is well qualified for his current position on Ultras Board.
The Directors are convinced that Mr Walker remains highly effective in his role as senior non-executive and that it is in the best interests of the shareholders for him to continue.
Meeting attendance Main Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 10 5 1 6 C. Bailey 10 5 - 6 J. Blogh 10 - 1 - D. Caster 10 - - - I. Griffiths 951 5 A. Hamment 10 - - - F. Hope 10 - - - 1 D. Jeffcoat 951 1 P. Macfarlane 421 3 A. Walker 951 5 1 Mr Jeffcoat is secretary to the Board and all three sub-committees.
He attends all Committee meetings in that capacity.
36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Internal controls The Combined Code states that Directors should review the effectiveness of the Groups entire system of internal controls, covering business risks associated with strategic, operational, financial and information technology matters.
Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
In this context the controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of the internal control system that operated during the year and that remain in existence are described below.
Control environment Ultras organisational structure has clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authorities, which have been reviewed by the Board during the year to ensure that they are still relevant given the current size and structure of the Group.
Ethical values and control consciousness are communicated to managers and staff via performance appraisal and development and training programmes.
All businesses are required to maintain written financial procedure manuals that are consistent with the control principles and policies that are set out in the Ultra Group Finance Manual.
Acquisitions, major capital investments and bids above a defined value require Board approval, with smaller investment decisions delegated to the Chief Executive.
Risk management Management has a responsibility for identifying the risks facing Ultras businesses and for putting in place procedures to monitor and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are formally assessed by the Board during the annual strategic planning process and steps are taken following this process to ensure that all such risks are minimised throughout the year.
Operational risks are monitored as part of the Groups monthly business performance review process.
Business units are required to report on all key areas of risk, indicating situations that are not compliant with normal controls.
Remedial actions must be proposed and such situations are then monitored until a satisfactory conclusion is reached.
All significant deviations are reported to the Board by the responsible Director twice annually.
The Board has established an Internal Audit process, carried out by Ernst & Young LLP, to review financial and information systems control procedures throughout the Group.
All business units are audited at least once every two years and those judged to represent a higher risk are reviewed more often.
In addition all significant newly acquired businesses are audited within six months of the acquisition date.
Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents its findings to the Audit Committee.
Follow-up actions to deal with any control weaknesses are reported to the Committee every six months and Internal Audit confirms that satisfactory progress has been made during its next visit to the business concerned.
In addition the executive Directors take an active role in identifying and assessing potential risks in all areas of the business.
This is achieved both through the normal monthly business review programme and also through day-to-day management contact.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting covering key performance indicators such as sales, profits and cash flow.
The annual budget and five year strategic plan for each business are approved by the executive Directors and the Board approves the Groups budget and plan.
The actual results for each business and variances against budget are reported monthly to the Board, normally during the third week of the following month.
Revised forecasts for the half-year and full-year are prepared monthly for each business unit, and for the Group as a whole, and also presented to the Board.
Shareholder communication The Group encourages two-way communications with both institutional and private investors and endeavours to respond promptly to queries received.
Ultras website provides detailed financial and business information about the Group.
Meetings between Directors, institutional shareholders and other market professionals are held regularly as a part of Ultras investor relations programme.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting, to ask questions during the meeting and to meet individual Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Documentation relevant to Ultras governance framework will be available for inspection before the Meeting, including the terms of reference of the Board and its sub-committees and the Directors contracts of employment.
The terms of reference can also be found on the Group website at www.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 37 Corporate governance continued Effectiveness of controls The Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework on a regular basis: internal procedures are reviewed and updated where necessary.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors have established that the Groups forward order book provides satisfactory cover for trading in the year to come and have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups banking facilties were renewed in November 2005 evidencing the Groups strong credit standing.
For these reasons, the Board continues to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP company financial statements, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements, and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
