Corporate governance Introduction The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing The Unilever Group between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC are the two parent companies of guarantee the borrowings of the other.
The two companies can the Unilever Group.
NV was incorporated under the name also agree jointly to guarantee the borrowings of their Naamlooze Vennootschap Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial 1927.
PLC was incorporated under the name Lever Brothers policy, for certain significant public borrowings.
They enable Limited in Great Britain in 1894.
The two companies have lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
different shareholder constituencies and shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one company for shares of the Corporate Policies other.
NV is listed in Amsterdam, New York, Frankfurt and Zrich.
Unilever policies are characterised by being universally applicable PLC is listed in London and New York.
They are mandatory in effect and have been developed to ensure consistency in key areas within our NV and PLC together with their group companies operate world-wide operations.
They cover operational and functional effectively as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by a series matters, and govern how we run our business, in order to comply of agreements between NV and PLC the Foundation Agreements, with applicable laws and regulations.
see below, together with special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
NV and PLC have the same directors Unilever corporate policies include: the Code of Business and adopt the same accounting principles.
Shareholders of both Principles: policies on positive assurance and risk management: companies receive dividends on an equalised basis.
NV and PLC policies on environmental strategy and reporting, social and and their group companies constitute a single reporting entity for ethical matters, including in respect of human rights: corporate the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, social responsibility: the Unilever share dealing code: and a the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and procedures manual for the timely release of price sensitive PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
NV and PLC have agreed to co-operate in all areas and to ensure The Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of that all group companies act accordingly.
NV and PLC are holding behaviour we require from all of our employees.
We also have a and service companies, and the business activity of Unilever is Code of Ethics that applies to the senior executive, financial and carried out by their subsidiaries around the world.
Shares in group accounting ofcers and comprises the standards prescribed by the companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC, or US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
The Code of Ethics jointly by the two companies, in varying proportions.
comprises an extract of the relevant provisions of Unilevers Code of Business Principles and the more detailed rules of conduct that The Equalisation Agreement implement it.
Copies of the Code of Business Principles and the The Equalisation Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the Code of Ethics are posted on our website at shareholders of NV and PLC.
Its objective is to ensure that the www.
position of these shareholders is, as far as possible, the same as if they held shares in a single company.
Under the Equalisation Our internal risk management and control systems are described Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same financial periods on page 31. and accounting policies.
Further information on the Equalisation Agreement is given on page 41.
Developments in corporate governance Unilever constantly keeps its corporate governance arrangements The Deed of Mutual Covenants under review.
NV and PLC are subject to different corporate The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and governance requirements and best practice codes, the most their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every relevant being those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
It is Unilevers practice to comply, where In addition, they shall exchange all relevant information about practicable, with the highest level of these codes, and respond to their respective businesses the intention being to create and developments appropriately.
maintain a common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants illustrates Developments in 2004 some of the information which makes up this common platform, Following a review of our governance arrangements in 2004, the such as the mutual exchange and free use of know-how, patents, NV and PLC shareholders adopted proposals to create a one-tier trade marks and all other commercially valuable information.
The board with a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Deed contains provisions which indicate, without laying down any rigid constraints, which operation according to geography shall be held ultimately by either NV or PLC.
These arrangements were designed to create a balance between the two parent companies and the funds generated by them, for the benefit of their respective sets of shareholders.
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
