Report of the Nomination Committee Composition Meetings of the Committee In 2005 the Nomination Committee comprised three Independent The Committee met six times in 2005.
It agreed to the separation Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Boards.
of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and recommended Bertrand Collomb chaired it throughout 2005.
Other members to the Boards the appointment of Antony Burgmans as Chairman, throughout 2005 were David Simon, Jeroen van der Veer and and Patrick Cescau as Group Chief Executive.
It also proposed Antony Burgmans.
The Joint Secretaries act as secretaries to the the nomination of all those Directors offering themselves for Committee.
re-election at the 2005 AGMs and to the nomination of Ralph Kugler as an additional Executive Director.
The composition of the Committee, having a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors, ensures that these Directors It carried out the Committees annual review of its terms of control the procedure for nominating the candidates for election reference and performance of its responsibilities and commenced as Directors of NV and PLC.
To ensure that the candidates its evaluation of its performance in 2004. presented for election as Directors of NV and PLC are the same, the members of the Nomination Committee are also the Directors Succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors, one of of N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited.
These two companies whom retired at the 2005 AGMs and three of whom are retiring jointly own the Special Shares of NV and the Deferred Shares of at the 2006 AGMs was also considered by the Committee during PLC which carry the right to nominate persons for election as 2005.
Specialist recruitment rms have been commissioned to Directors of NV and PLC at general meetings.
In December 2005 assist in nding individuals with the appropriate skills and it was announced that we will propose to change this process to expertise who will be nominated as Non-Executive Directors at the allow shareholders the right to nominate candidates to the Board, AGMs in 2006 and 2007. taking into account the need for the Boards of NV and PLC to be the same to ensure unity of management.
Further information on During 2005, the Committee also commenced the search for a these proposals can be found in the notices to the 2006 AGMs.
new Chairman to succeed Antony Burgmans who is due to retire in 2007.
A well-reputed search rm has been commissioned by The Boards are of the view that it is appropriate that the the Committee to assist them in this process.
Further work on this Chairman is included as a member of the Committee on the will be carried out during 2006. express condition that he did not participate in any discussion of his own position.
2005 was the first year of our new Boards operation.
To ensure optimal functioning of the Boards and the individual Directors and Remit compliance with the most recent developments in best practice, The primary role of the Committee is the recommendation to the the Nomination Committee commissioned Spencer Stuart to carry Boards of candidates for the positions of Director, both Executive out a full review of the functioning of the Boards and of their and Non-Executive, and Chairman and Vice-Chairman, and Senior governance arrangements.
This review concluded that our Independent Director, and this includes a responsibility to concern arrangements stood comparison with our peers.
A full report was itself with succession planning within the Boards.
In addition it made to the Boards in the first quarter of 2006 and a range of has a responsibility for the oversight of all matters relating to minor changes in terms of the day-to-day operations of the corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Boards will be introduced during the balance of the year.
Under its remit, the Committee is entitled to use the evaluation and Chairman and individual director appraisal process services of recruitment consultants and other external experts at is scheduled for 2006.
Thus, the changes following the said the expense of Unilever.
It is also to conduct a process of review can be taken into account in the evaluations.
evaluation of its own performance each year.
The full remit is on the Unilever website at The Committee also met early in 2006.
It decided to nominate all www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance, as is the those Directors offering themselves for re-election at the 2006 information used by the Committee for succession planning.
AGMs and four new Directors to be appointed as Non-Executive in place of Claudio Gonzalez who retired at the 2005 AGMs and Also on that website is The Governance of Unilever, which, of Bertrand Collomb, Oscar Fanjul and Hilmar Kopper who are amongst other matters, sets out the procedures for evaluating the retiring at the 2006 AGMs.
The new Non-Executive Directors were Boards and individual Directors.
These are designed to enable the chosen specically for their financial and or general business results of the evaluations to be provided to the Nomination expertise.
Committee when it discusses the nominations for election as Directors of NV and PLC at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Committees annual Report to Shareholders was approved.
Bertrand Collomb Chairman of the Nomination Committee Antony Burgmans David Simon Jeroen van der Veer 52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
