Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever Boards in their independence and objectivity, and also conducted a formal fullling their oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Unilevers financial statements, risk management and internal control, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the The committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other external auditors performance, qualications and independence, audit, audit-related, tax and other services provided by and the performance of the internal audit function.
During the , and compliance with Unilevers policy, year ended 31 December 2005 the principal activities of the which prescribes the types of engagements for which the external Committee were as follows: auditors can be used.
In 2005, the Audit Committee also reviewed and approved the policy regarding the pre-approval of Financial statements the non-audit services.
All non-audit services undertaken by the The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial external auditors were reviewed and authorised by the Committee officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements and in line with the policy and further information on all of these reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts prior to publication.
services is noted immediately following this report.
Audit of the Annual Accounts The Committee held independent meetings with the external , Unilevers external auditors, reported in auditors during the year.
depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and The external auditors report to the Directors and the Audit control, and accounting developments.
Committee on the actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice Risk management and internal control arrangements designed to ensure their independence from Unilever, including, The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk for example, the periodic rotation of key team members.
The UK management and control, and its processes, outcomes and lead partner in charge of the audit, who was appointed in 2001, disclosure, including specically: will rotate off at the 2006 AGM and a new lead partner will be appointed by  LLP.
Corporate Audits interim and year-end reports on the Status of Risk Management & Control, and managements response: Internal audit function Annual report from the Chief Financial officer on business risks and The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the positive assurance on operating controls and corporate policies: Corporate Audit Departments audit plan for the year, and The interim and year-end reports from the Code of Business approved its budget and resource requirements.
Principles Compliance Committee: Monitoring the resolution of complaints received through the The Committee approved the appointment of a new Chief global Ethics hotline which included a procedure for handling Auditor arising from the transfer of the previous holder to a new complaints and concerns relating to accounting, internal control senior finance position following organisational changes.
and auditing matters: Monitoring progress of the implementation of the requirements The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with performance of the internal audit function and confirmed that respect to internal controls over financial reporting: they were satisfied with their relationship with the Chief Auditor.
A review of pensions arrangements: Reviewing the management of transition risks arising from The Committee held independent meetings with the Chief Auditor changes in the organisation and operating framework: during the year.
A review of treasury and tax matters relating to investment hedging and gearing, and developments on engaging with tax Audit Committee terms of reference authorities: The Audit Committees terms of reference were updated in 2005 A review of anti-fraud arrangements: to reect the realignment of the roles previously carried out by A review of the Slim Fast impairment and a learning review of the Corporate Risk Committee, and also to include an annual the accounting process: review of the Groups anti-fraud arrangements.
In February 2006, A review of nancing strategy: and the terms of reference were updated to reect requirements A review of risk management in the outsourcing projects.
under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code that the Audit Committee has oversight of the policy of the Group on tax External auditors planning, the nancing of the Group, and the applications of The Audit Committee undertakes a periodic formal review of the information and communication technology.
appointment of external auditors, and the most recent review was completed in November 2005.
The Committee has approved the The Audit Committee carried out a self-assessment of its own extension of the current external audit contract by one year, and performance.
recommended to the Boards the reappointment of the external auditors.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the The Audit Committees terms of reference can be viewed on Directors will be proposing the reappointment of Unilevers website at  at the AGMs in May 2006 see pages www.
Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards Hilmar Kopper Chairman of the Audit Committee in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity Wim Dik and independence could be compromised.
The Committee Oscar Fanjul reviewed the report from  conrming 70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the Audit Committee continued Services provided by external auditors The Audit Committees policy regarding the pre-approval of the In overview, our procedures in respect of services provided by above non-audit services lists in detail the particular services  are: which  is and is not permitted to provide.
Statutory audit: In the case of the types of work which  Procedures in respect of statutory audit services are detailed is allowed to perform, the policy provides that they are only on page 70.
This category includes fees for the statutory audit appointed to an assignment if proper consideration has been of Unilevers financial statements and those of its subsidiaries.
given to other potential service providers, there must be bona fide advantages in using , and, in addition, if Other audit services: the fee is over 100 000, the engagement must be specically This is audit and similar work that regulations or agreements with approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
third parties require the auditors to undertake.
These services include procedures undertaken by our external auditors in Potential engagements for any services not already covered by this connection with borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and policy must be referred to the Chairman of the Audit Committee various other regulatory reports.
for specic pre-approval to be ratied at the next meeting of the Audit Committee before  can be Audit-related services: appointed.
This is work that, in their position as the auditors, they are best placed to undertake.
It includes internal control reviews, other The policy is regularly reviewed and updated in the light of reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
internal developments, external developments and best practice.
Tax services: See note 4 on page 93 for the actual fees payable to In cases where they are best suited, we use the auditors.
significant tax consulting work is put to tender.
General consulting and other services: Since early 2002, our policy has been that our external auditors may not tender for any new general consulting work.
We use our auditors to perform a limited number of other services, including risk management advisory work and training, where these are compatible with their work and subject to the appropriate level of pre-approval.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 71 Report of the Directors
