Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report Introduction Vedantas shares have been listed on the London Stock Exchange since December 2003.
Most of the Groups assets and management are located in India.
Three of the Groups subsidiary companies are currently listed on stock exchanges in India and maintain their own corporate governance arrangements in line with Indian regulations.
In addition, BALCO and HZL, along with the Groups recently privatised Zambian business, KCM, have government appointees on their company boards who represent wider stakeholder interests.
The Groups Executive Chairman, Mr Anil Agarwal, is the Groups original promoter and founder having built the Group from its inception in 1976.
Volcan Investments Limited, a company controlled by Mr Agarwal and his family, remains the Groups controlling shareholder with a 54% interest.
The relationship between Volcan, Mr Agarwal and the Group is governed by a Relationship Agreement which was entered into by the Company and Volcan at the time of Listing in December 2003: it is designed to ensure the Company can operate independently of the controlling shareholder described below in further detail.
Since Listing, the Board has moved towards compliance with the requirements of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code in July 2003.
The Board believes that in the interest of all shareholders, the application of corporate governance must reect the nature and location of the Groups businesses, the ownership of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Groups development needs and ensuring that talents within the Group are utilised to their fullest potential.
Statement of Compliance Throughout the year ended 31 March 2005, Vedanta has complied with Section 1 of the Code, save as set out below.
Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement and as disclosed at the time of Listing, Volcan will be consulted on all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee therefore works collaboratively with Volcan over making appointments to the Board, and to this extent, does not follow the process set out in the Code Provision A.
Mr Agarwal did not meet the independence criteria set out in the Code at the time of his appointment as Executive Chairman on 23 March 2005.
He had previously been Chief Executive of the Company and is the controlling shareholder of the Company Provisions A.
The Board believes that India is changing rapidly and presents the Group with significant opportunities.
The appointment of Mr Agarwal has allowed him to step back from operational management and to focus on turning these opportunities into value creating projects.
Together with the appointment of Mr KK Kaura as Chief Executive, the Board considers that this allows best use of the talents within the management team.
Due to changes in Board membership during the year, no evaluation of the Board, its committees or individual Directors has been performed during the year Principle A.
6 and membership of the Board committees has not been maintained fully in compliance with the requirements of the Code Provisions A.
However at the end of the year, membership of all Board committees complied with the Code.
The Company fully complies in all other respects with the Code, with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and with the UK Companies Acts, and the Board remains fully committed to conducting the Groups affairs in a transparent manner.
The Board The Board is responsible for setting leadership standards for the Group, sponsoring and monitoring its principal businesses, securing financial and other resources to enable those businesses to pursue their strategic objectives, ensuring that the Group maintains appropriate internal control systems and ensuring effective relationships with shareholders are maintained.
Board Composition The Board consists of an Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and four independent Non-executive Directors.
During the year, there have been seven appointments to the Board and five Directors have left the Board.
Independence The Board considers that all of the Non-executive Directors are independent of the Company as dened by Code Provision A.
The Board is aware that Messrs Mehta and Macdonald have held previous senior management positions within subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings plc, which acted as the joint global coordinator and bookrunner at the time of the Companys Listing in December 2003.
At the time of their appointments, the Board considered that neither Mr Mehtas nor Mr Macdonalds previous employments included the provision of corporate finance services in London by the HSBC Group and thus they 48 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report continued had no prior involvement with the Group prior to their appointment, and that the value of the business transacted between the Company and the HSBC Group was less than 1% of the turnover of either organisation.
Mr Mehta left the HSBC Group within a month of the Companys Listing.
Prior to Mr Mehtas appointment to the Board, different members of the Board met with Mr Mehta as a result of which they concluded that he would bring clarity of thought and an independent perspective to the Boards discussions, as well as valuable banking experience.
This was felt to be especially pertinent in the light of the Groups bond issue and other corporate finance activity.
Consequently, the Board does not consider that Mr Mehtas past involvement with the HSBC Group would be likely to affect his judgment as a Director.
Mr Macdonald left the HSBC Group in 2002, over a year before the Company listed on the London market.
Similarly, the Board believes that Mr Macdonalds experience of international commercial banking will be of great value to the Company and that he will bring an independent perspective to the Boards discussions.
Consequently, the Board does not consider that Mr Macdonalds past involvement with the HSBC Group would be likely to affect his judgment as a Director.
Relationship Agreement At the time of Listing, Volcan and the Company entered into the Relationship Agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of Volcan, the Agarwal Family and their associates.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the Board and Nominations Committee will at all times comprise a majority of Directors who are independent of Volcan and the Agarwal Family, and the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times consist only of Non-executive Directors.
Volcan is entitled to nominate for appointment as Director such number of persons as is one less than the number of Directors who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal Family and their associates.
Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director On 23 March 2005, the Board appointed Mr Anil Agarwal as Executive Chairman and Mr Kaura, previously Chief Operating officer, was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive.
The Executive Chairman, as agreed by the Board, will be primarily responsible for providing strategic leadership to the Board and further enhancing Vedantas exceptional growth pipeline.
Meanwhile the Chief Executive, as agreed by the Board, will be primarily responsible for leadership of the executive team, implementation of the Groups strategy, the management of resources, the maintenance of a sound control environment, setting budgets and managing performance within those budgets.
The Executive Chairman is also a director of Sterlite Gold Limited, which, by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Company, is regarded as a related party of the Group.
Mr Navin Agarwal was appointed Deputy Executive Chairman on 1 June 2005, to provide support to the Executive Chairman.
Mr Chandra is the Companys Senior Independent Director, having been appointed to that role on 24 November 2004.
The principal duties of the Senior Independent Director are: to be available to shareholders to discuss any concerns they may have about the running of the Company, especially where the normal channels of communication would not seem appropriate: and to lead discussions at meetings of the independent Non-executive Directors.
Board Appointments Over the course of the year, the Board has sought to improve the balance of the Board by appointing Nonexecutive Directors with a breadth of skills and experience to support the Executive Directors in implementing the Groups strategy.
The composition of the Board combines specialist knowledge of the economic, political and market environments within which the Group operates with expertise of international mining.
This has been achieved by the appointments of Messrs Naresh Chandra who brings good knowledge of the Indian political and economic environment to the Board, Aman Mehta banking and Asian capital markets, Dr Shailendra Kumar Tamotia metals and mining expertise, especially in India and Mr Euan Macdonald international corporate banking experience.
As previously announced on 24 March 2005, the Board intends to appoint a further UK-based senior independent Non-executive Director.
Mr Kaura was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive on 23 March 2005.
In order to give a greater management presence on the Board and to improve communication with the Executive Committee, Mr Navin Agarwal was appointed as an Executive Director on 24 November 2004.
Both appointments were made on the recommendation of Mr Anil Agarwal as the then Chief Executive and subsequently approved by the Nominations Committee.
Mr Navin Agarwals appointment as an Executive Director was by virtue of his responsibilities and experience since joining Sterlite at its inception, and not as an appointee of Volcan pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 49 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report continued Board Attendance During the year, the Board has met six times for full scheduled meetings, the Audit Committee has met three times, the Remuneration Committee, four times and the Nominations Committee, three times.
Attendance of members at Board and committee meetings, of which they have been given notice, is set down in the following table: Changes during year Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Current directors AK Agarwal 6 6 3 3 N Agarwal Appointed 24 11 04 1 1 KK Kaura Appointed 23 03 05 PE Sydney-Smith 6 6 N Chandra Appointed 18 05 04 5 6 1 1 3 3 2 2 ER Macdonald Appointed 23 03 05 A Mehta Appointed 24 11 04 1 1 1 1 SK Tamotia Appointed 24 11 04 2 2 1 1 Previous directors P Chidambaram Resigned 22 05 04 0 1 0 1 BP Gilbertson Resigned 06 07 04 2 2 1 1 Sir D Gore-Booth Died 31 10 04 5 5 1 1 3 3 WMT Fowle Resigned 23 03 05 6 6 2 2 2 2 4 4 J-P Rodier Appointed 14 06 04 6 6 2 2 3 3 Resigned 23 03 05 Only members of a Board committee are entitled to attend the relevant committees meetings, although other Directors may attend Board committees at the invitation of the relevant committee chairman.
During the year, separate meetings were held respectively involving the previous Chairmen meeting with the Non-executive Directors, and the Senior Independent Director meeting with the Non-executive Directors.
Board Development The Board has established procedures for providing formal induction for the new Non-executive Directors, taking into account their existing qualications and experience.
These procedures include meetings with senior management and the Companys lawyers, brokers and external auditors.
Board Administration The Board has an agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which has been updated since Listing, and newly adopted terms of reference for Board committees.
Most operational decisions are delegated to the Executive Committee and the boards of subsidiary companies.
The Executive Committee provides a conduit for keeping the Board informed of Group performance and developments.
It consists of the Executive Directors and senior management who head up the Groups principal operations and functions.
The Executive Committee meets monthly to consider corporate matters and has regular reviews with the executive teams from each of the principal subsidiaries.
The biographies of the Directors and members of the Executive Committee appear on pages 46 and 47.
In view of the presence of a significant number of Board members at the monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and the existing subsidiary board infrastructure, routine meetings of the Board are now scheduled quarterly to coincide with the approval of the quarterly results, with additional meetings being set as and when required to deal with matters that fall outside this timetable.
The Board has established procedures for the timely circulation of papers prior to Board meetings.
The Company Secretary is appointed and removed by the Board and provides administrative services to the Board.
Arrangements have been made for Directors to receive independent professional advice in the performance of their duties at the Companys expense, if they require it.
Directors are entitled to have concerns raised about the running of the Company recorded in Board minutes.
The Company has put suitable directors and ofcers liability insurance cover in place.
The Notice convening the forthcoming AGM is included within the accompanying Chairmans letter.
This provides full details of the resolutions being proposed to re-appoint Directors appointed during the year and those retiring by rotation.
The Board fully supports all of the re-appointment resolutions being put forward at the AGM.
50 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with Shareholders The Board is responsible for ensuring an effective dialogue between the Company and its shareholders.
Formal communication with shareholders is mainly through meetings with the Executive Directors, including the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Board is regularly briefed by the Head of Investor Relations, Mr John Smelt, on the Companys relationships with its shareholders.
The Company announces its results on a quarterly basis in full for the preliminary and interim announcements and in abbreviated form in the intervening quarters.
Analysts presentations involving the Executive Directors are made following the release of the interim and year end results.
Analyst and shareholder visits have been arranged in India and, following the KCM acquisition, Zambia.
The Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director have been available to discuss issues and concerns of major shareholders during the year and opportunities for such meetings are offered to major shareholders, through the Companys brokers.
Contact with the Chairman and or the Senior Independent Director may be made directly or through the Head of Investor Relations.
The Non-executive Directors are also available to meet as and when such meetings are requested.
The interim and annual reports remain the primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders.
com was relaunched during the year to strengthen communications with investors and includes press releases, financial reports and other information of interest.
The Company has considered the possibility of using electronic means of communicating with shareholders but has concluded that it does not have a sufciently large share register to enable it to achieve major savings or efficiency by utilising electronic communications further, over and above those facilities already available for electronic communications within the CREST share trading system.
The Board is happy to encourage the constructive use of the Companys annual general meeting for shareholder communication.
At the forthcoming AGM, an update on trading will be given on the performance of the Group prior to the formal business of that meeting.
Shareholders will be provided with the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the chairmen of the various Board committees, and to present their views.
Separate resolutions will be proposed on each substantially separate issue put before the meeting.
At the 2004 AGM, the level of proxies cast for each resolution was communicated following approval of each resolution and a similar approach will be taken at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of proxy voting will be placed on the Company website.
The AGM will be convened giving at least 20 working days notice.
Nominations Committee The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee have been revised during the year to bring them in line with the recommendations of the Code.
The terms of reference are available upon request from the Company Secretary.
In conjunction with the consultation of Volcan pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, the Nominations Committee has a role in reviewing the size and composition of the Board, particularly the balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors, and advising the Board on proposed appointments of new Non-executive Directors.
It drew up a list of criteria to be used in assessing potential new appointments to the Board and this was used as part of the selection process for new Non-executive Directors appointed during the year.
In view of the desire to recruit Non-executive Directors with appropriate skill sets and experience gained in India and or in the international mining sector, the Nominations Committee felt that the Directors contacts would be better placed to identify suitable candidates for appointment than by employing an external search consultancy or open advertising.
In the process of appointment, a number of candidates were recommended by Directors, considered for appointment and selected based on the pre-agreed set of criteria.
The Chairman is also chairman of the Nominations Committee and consequently Mr Anil Agarwal was appointed Chairman of the Nominations Committee on 1 June 2005.
During the year, Messrs Gilbertson and Fowle served as Chairmen of the Nominations Committee.
Sir David Gore-Booth chaired the Board when it considered the appointment of Mr Fowle as Chairman and Mr Chandra chaired the Nominations Committee and the Board when it considered the appointment of Mr Agarwal as Chairman.
The other members of the Nominations Committee are Messrs Chandra and Macdonald and Dr Tamotia.
The Executive Directors service agreements and terms of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and head ofce.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Report, providing a statement on the Companys policy on Directors remuneration, benets, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements is set out on pages 55 to 61.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 51 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report continued The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee have also been revised during the year and are available upon request from the Company Secretary.
Following the death of Sir David Gore-Booth in October 2004, Mr Naresh Chandra was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 24 November 2004, having previously been appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 14 June 2004.
The other members of the Remuneration Committee are Messrs Macdonald and Mehta.
Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee has been reviewed during the year in the light of the Code and the Smith Guidance incorporated into the Code.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have also been revised in the light of the Smith Guidance.
The primary role of the Audit Committee has been confirmed in the new terms of reference as principally being to oversee: the integrity of the financial reporting system of the Group: the Groups approach to risk and internal controls: the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activity: the Groups relationship with its external auditors: and compliance with relevant statutory and required financial reporting standards, including corporate governance disclosures.
In addition to the requirements of the Code, the Group subsidiary companies, by virtue of their listings on Indian stock exchanges, have their own audit committees, which are established in accordance with Indian corporate governance requirements.
This provides a second level of financial oversight below the Audit Committee, which also monitors the discussions and findings of the Groups subsidiary audit committees.
Mr Mehta is the chairman of the Audit Committee, having been appointed on 24 November 2004.
The other members of the committee are Messrs Chandra and Macdonald.
The Board considers that Mr Mehta has recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of his roles at HSBC Bank and his experience on the audit committees of other international companies.
Mr Chandra brings a strong understanding of the Indian corporate governance environment to the Audit Committee having chaired the Government of Indias Committee on Corporate Governance.
Three Audit Committee meetings have been held during the year, of which one meeting was dedicated to reviewing and approving policies and procedures to ensure that the Company can achieve full compliance with the financial reporting and internal control principles set out in Part C of Section 1 of the Code.
Financial Reporting and Going Concern In presenting the annual and interim financial information, and similar significant publications, the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Audit Committee has adopted a procedure setting out responsibilities for the Groups financial reporting infrastructure.
The procedure incorporates the review of the Financial Statements and related documents, and the process for recommending approval of the Financial Statements to the Board and their audit clearance by the external auditors.
The Committee also reviews the external auditors management letter with a follow-up review of management responses.
It also reviews the basis on which the Board makes its statement regarding going concern.
The Board has adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
This expectation is based on the most recently approved funding plan which reected the 2005 06 budget and funding forecasts used to support the Groups recent credit ratings by Standard and Poor and Moodys: the use of the net proceeds of $825 million raised at the time of Listing and funds raised, in two tranches during the year, through the issue of the $600 million bond: and the requirements of the Groups $2.2 billion capital expansion programme.
The funding plan also reects the committed borrowing facilities available to the Group.
The Board also took into account potential contingent liabilities and other risk factors.
Risk Management Following the review of risks at the time of the Companys Listing, an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been introduced which accords with the Turnbull Guidance incorporated into the Code.
This involves a continual review and prioritisation of risks throughout the Group and the identication of risk mitigation control strategies.
There is a clear accountability for the identied prioritised risks.
52 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report continued The Executive Committee has approved the risk management process and regularly reviews information on the Groups significant risks, along with relevant control and monitoring procedures, for completeness and accuracy.
In addition, the Executive Committee also reviews strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in the Groups business environment.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in the context of the Turnbull Guidance.
Up to the date of approval of this Annual Report, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, managing and evaluating risks which meets the Turnbull Guidance.
Internal Control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The principal aim of the system of internal control is the management of business risks, with a view to enhancing the value of shareholders investments and safeguarding the Groups assets.
Due to the limitations inherent in any such system, this is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Accordingly, it provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Regular Group-wide cross-discipline management reporting, which provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, is an important component of Board assurance on the internal control environment.
In addition there is a dedicated committee focussing on the specic risks of health, safety and environment which provides assurance to the Board on these matters.
The Group operates a comprehensive annual planning, financial reporting and forecasting process.
The Board formally approves a strategic plan and the annual budget.
The Groups performance is monitored against the budget on a monthly basis by the Executive Committee, and on a quarterly basis by the Board, and significant variances are reviewed.
The Audit Committee also receives a twice yearly review of all material tax exposures and material litigation undertaken by or against the Group, and considers the associated risks.
Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place procedures to ensure that sufficient internal control is maintained.
These procedures include monthly meetings of each subsidiarys management committee and a quarterly meeting of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
The board of directors of the relevant subsidiary appoint these committees.
Internal Audit The Groups internal audit activity is managed through a single Group-wide Management Assurance function, which is supported by the services of leading international accountancy rms, other than the Groups external auditors.
Internal audit is an important element of the overall process by which the Board obtains the assurance it requires that the risks are being properly identied, managed and controlled.
The responsibilities of the internal audit function include recommending improvements in the control environment and ensuring compliance with the Groups procedures and policies.
Ordinarily, significant operational units are audited on a monthly basis and significant head ofce and administrative units are audited quarterly.
The Audit Committee approves the resourcing of the Management Assurance function, who have access to management and the Audit Committee.
The scope of work and resources of the Management Assurance function are periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that it is adequate in light of the key risks facing the Group and other monitoring functions in place.
It also reviews the risk assessment and audit plan prepared by the Management Assurance function on an annual basis.
Whilst the Audit Committee routinely meets with both the internal and external auditors to discuss matters of internal control, it also receives reports on the significant findings of internal audits that have been undertaken.
Follow-up actions by management noted in internal audit reports and the external auditors management letter are tracked by the Management Assurance function to ensure that they have been implemented.
The Head of Management Assurance, Mr Raajeev Batra, attends meetings of the Audit Committee and has reporting lines to the chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman, if necessary.
The Audit Committee has set down the criteria by which it will assess the effectiveness of internal audit activities on an annual basis.
External Audit Assessment: The Audit Committee has established a procedure by which it will consider and make recommendations to the Board as appropriate concerning the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee annually assesses the qualication, expertise and effectiveness of the external auditors.
It has also established criteria by which the independence and objectivity of the external auditors will be assessed.
It proposes to use these criteria following the current audit.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 53 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report continued Independence: The Audit Committee has considered potential risks to the independence of the external auditors, in particular: the Self-interest threat the auditors could benefit from a financial interest in the client: the Self-review threat the auditors may be reviewing their own work: the Advocacy threat the auditors are involved in promoting the clients interests: the Familiarity threat because of their relationship, the auditors may be too sympathetic to the clients interests: and the Intimidation threat the auditors may be put in a situation where they are pressurised by the client.
The Audit Committees criteria for assessing the independence and objectivity of the external auditors aim to minimise the possibility of these threats crystallising.
To support this, policies concerning the employment of former employees of the external auditors and the use of the external auditors to perform non-audit services have been adopted.
In regard to the latter, the Audit Committee has distinguished between services relating to the statutory audit and related services that must be completed by the external auditors for example, the bond issue assurance work : non-audit services that the external auditors could perform for example, merger & acquisition due diligence work and tax advisory services : and non-audit services that the external auditors should not perform as they present a high risk of conict based on advice issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales for example, work on accounting records, internal audit and IT consultancy.
The Audit Committee believes that there are certain non-audit services for which it is cost-effective for the external auditors to be used and which do not constitute any discernible threat to their independence.
Any non-audit service assignments for fees in excess of $100,000 may only be awarded to the external auditors after competitive tender, and with the prior approval of the Finance Director.
During the year, the only significant non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors was the due diligence work in connection with the KCM acquisition, the fees for which amounted to $200,000 and which was awarded to the external auditors after competitive tender.
A panel of accounting rms which does not include the current external auditors are invited to tender for non-audit work as and when necessary.
This policy is consistent with the ethical standards recommended by the Auditing Practices Board.
The Audit Committee approves the scope of the year end audit, approves the terms of engagement and then reviews the findings of the auditors following the completion of each audit.
Other Audit Committee Activity The Audit Committee has reviewed the arrangements by which staff of the Company or any Group subsidiary may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
Aprocedure had already been included in the code of ethics adopted by the Indian operating companies.
The existing version was considered to provide a suitable set of guidelines and has been re-afrmed.
This is being revised and upgraded to take account of issues raised by the Code and other relevant regulatory requirements in the UK.
