Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Combined Code The Directors are reporting compliance against the Combined Code the Code that came into effect from 1st November 2003.
The Directors believe that, other than as indicated below, the Company has fully complied with the Code.
The Board continued to operate through 2005 without establishing a Nominations Committee, preferring, as a small group, to continue to exercise the functions of such a committee in the full Board.
In the light of the expansion of the Board referred to below, the Board has now reviewed this issue and has now established a Nominations Committee.
The Committee comprises Mr Morgan Chairman and Messrs Wagstaff, Nicholls and Jones.
The Board believes that the contribution of all its non-executive directors is valuable to Ventures business.
The Board is aware however that two of the non-executives may not fulfil all the objective criteria of independence set out in the Code and elsewhere.
As reported last year, Alan Jones was appointed as an independent non-executive director in April 2005.
During the year, the Board set out to recruit two additional independent non-executive directors.
Two individuals were identified by the year-end and they have now joined the Board.
Additionally, David Morrison, who has been a Board member since October 1999, indicated a wish to step down and has done so with effect from the end of April 2006.
Following this series of changes Board membership is compliant with the Code.
The independence issue and the recruitment process are more fully discussed below.
Important Governance Developments During 2005 Finance Director appointed New independent director appointed Recruitment advanced for two new independent directors Withdrawal from Trinidad operations completed Executive Committee established Strong focus on risk management Strategic Review completed Board focus on key success factors Remuneration developments formulated Board assessment process improved Board Function The Board recognises its key role as the link in the chain of authority between the shareholders and the Chief Executive and its responsibility to represent and promote the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to all shareholders for the performance of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board has determined a schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision.
All other matters, including implementing the Boards decisions on reserved matters, are delegated to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive in turn is responsible for establishing a clear system of delegation and accountability for all aspects of corporate performance.
Where the Board approves policy, for example on HSE or remuneration matters, it is both setting the standards to be observed by the whole company and providing a clear framework for delegation within this area of activity.
Matters reserved for the Board include setting the Companys long term objectives and strategy, approving the annual business plan and budgets and approval of policies on risk management, hedging and reserves reporting.
During 2005 the Board decided that, in response to the growing scale of business activity and in particular the number of contracts being awarded requiring its approval, it was appropriate to establish an Executive Committee with some previously reserved Board powers delegated to it.
The Executive Committee comprises the three Executive Directors of the Company.
The main areas of responsibility of the Executive Committee include approval of unbudgeted capital expenditure between 1 million and 5 million, approval of contracts for goods and services between 5 million and 10 million and authority to issue shares to satisfy the exercise of share options or the issue of shares under approved schemes.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been amended to reflect the role of the Executive Committee.
The Committees meetings are minuted and their decisions are reported to the Board.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has previously established an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, as indicated above, the Board has decided that, in the light of the expansion of its membership, it is now appropriate to establish a Nominations Committee.
Board Membership and Independence Issues At the start of 2005 the Board comprised: John Morgan non-executive Chairman : Mark Nicholls Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman : Laurence Kinch and David Morrison as non-executive Directors: Mike Wagstaff as Chief Executive and Jon Murphy as Chief Operating Officer.
As previously reported Marie-Louise Clayton was appointed as Finance Director in February 2005, bringing extensive experience of financial management in large businesses.
We also previously reported the appointment of Alan Jones as independent non-executive director in April 2005.
Mr Jones is an engineer with over 30 years of experience of operations and project management within the oil and gas industry.
During 2005, the Board decided to initiate a search for two additional independent non-executive directors.
The specification for these positions included senior management experience in the oil and gas service sector and management responsibility for a rapidly growing business.
Egon Zehnder was appointed to assist with the search and by the end of the year two candidates had been identified from a short list of five who were interviewed.
The Board is very pleased that Mr Thomas Blades and Mr Thomas Ehret have been appointed as independent non-executive directors in March of this year.
Mr Blades is currently executive director of Choren Industries, a German based energy technology company.
He had a long career with Schlumberger including senior management roles, prior to a successful period as COO of Numar and then as CEO of Spectro, a German technology company.
Mr Ehret is currently CEO of Acergy SA.
Prior to this he was successful as CEO of Stena Offshore subsequently Coflexip-Stena and finally vice chairman of the management board of Technip and president of its offshore branch.
The Board is confident that the knowledge and expertise that both of these appointments bring will be valuable in the continuing development of Venture.
As indicated above, David Morrison, who joined the Board in October 1999, has left with effect from end April 2006.
Mr Morrison was not regarded as independent because his company represents major shareholders in Venture.
The Board wishes to thank Mr Morrison for the significant contribution he has made as a member.
Mr Kinch is a founding member of Venture and a major shareholder.
The Board does not believe that it is reasonable to question Mr Kinchs independence on the basis of this founding shareholding.
Mr Kinch has founded Energy Development Partners EDP, a company which aims to be involved in the development of oil and gas assets including assets in the North Sea.
The Board of Venture has reviewed this issue and recognises that the business model of EDP is different from that of Venture.
In particular it deals with assets that current owners do not wish to dispose of.
Nevertheless the Board has recognised that there is some potential for a conflict of interest to arise.
The Board has agreed procedures with Mr Kinch, including appropriate information procedures, which it is confident will allow any actual conflict to be identified.
Should this situation arise appropriate action will be taken to safeguard the interests of Ventures shareholders.
The Board continues to place a high value on Mr Kinchs contribution to the Company but, for the reasons indicated above, has determined that he should not be regarded as an independent director.
The Board has reaffirmed its view that Mr Morgan, as Chairman, is fully independent in character and judgement.
Following the recent changes, the Board now comprises the non-executive chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors, four of whom the Board recognises as fully independent.
At this time the Board has no plans to recruit any further members.
The Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association require that one third of the directors must submit themselves for re-election each year by rotation.
Additionally, newly appointed directors will submit themselves for election at the Annual Meeting following their appointment.
Recent appointments and resignations have disrupted the one third schedule and the Board has now decided that it is appropriate for all directors to submit themselves for re-election at each annual general meeting.
This is consistent with the annual review process for individual Board members, which includes review of appointment terms and conditions and confirmation of expected time commitments for non-executive directors.
Board Committees The Executive Committee was established during 2005, comprising the executive directors.
The reason for this is explained above.
As indicated, the Board has now decided to establish a Nominations Committee that comprises Mr Morgan chairman, 26 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT and Messrs Wagstaff, Nicholls and Jones.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Nicholls and includes Mr Jones and Mr Morgan.
It is intended that Mr Ehret will join this committee following the Annual General Meeting and that Mr Morgan will have left it by year-end.
At this point the Committee will be fully compliant with the Code.
Mr Jones assumed the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee from Mr Morgan in January 2006.
Messrs Nicholls and Morgan are members.
It is intended that Mr Blades will join the Committee following the Annual General Meeting.
Full Audit and Remuneration Committee reports are included below.
Board Meetings During 2005 the Board was scheduled to meet seven times.
A further three ad-hoc meetings were arranged at short notice.
These meetings were supplemented as necessary by minuted telephone conference calls.
All directors receive appropriate and timely information.
In addition all directors have complete access to the Company Secretary and, if required, independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Attendance at the scheduled Board meetings during 2005 was as follows: Messrs Morgan, Morrison and Nicholls attended all seven, Ms Clayton all the six meetings for which she was eligible, Messrs Murphy and Wagstaff attended six, Mr Kinch attended five and Mr Jones attended four of the five meetings for which he was eligible.
The Board also held a full day Strategic Review Meeting during the year.
On two occasions the Chairman had formal meetings with the non-executive directors without the presence of the executive directors.
Induction and Development of the Non-executive Directors New directors are given a tailored induction programme covering the overall position of Venture: the role of the Board and the matters reserved for Board decision: the function and terms of reference of Board Committees: the Companys corporate governance practices: key policy areas and the latest financial and operational information concerning the Company.
They also meet all the executive directors, the Company Secretary and key members of the management team.
They are briefed on their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a publicly listed company.
As part of the annual appraisal process directors are invited to identify any areas in which they would benefit from training and the Company will seek to identify appropriate programmes to meet their needs.
This is supplemented by routine briefings on major developments.
Specific Issues and Developments Ventures business continued to grow during 2005.
It was a year of intense activity and successful delivery.
In July, the Companys senior bank facility was renegotiated, changed from US dollar to sterling denomination and increased from $150 million to 370 million.
Also in July, there was an issue of Convertible Notes that raised 29 million.
The growing scale of the business clearly requires continued vigilance from the Board to ensure that the organisation, its policies and procedures are all developing appropriately.
The strategic review undertaken in 2005 was an important part of this process and the outcome of the review, together with other important areas that have been covered by the Board, is outlined below.
Strategic Review Immediately following the IPO in 2002 the Board reaffirmed the basic strategy of Venture with its focus on stranded assets and set a range of very challenging objectives through to 2006.
Based on the Business Plan for this year the Company is positioned to deliver results well within this range by year-end.
It was therefore appropriate to review the strategy during 2005.
A change arose with the decision to end operational activity in Trinidad, which was announced last year see below.
This leaves Venture entirely focused on its core North Sea activities.
The focus on stranded assets has been unchanged since the Companys foundation and the Board believes that this strategy, together with the development of critical mass around the activity hubs, proven operatorship capability and high ownership shares of most assets has created a sustainable competitive advantage for the Company.
Additionally, the Board believes that the UKCS continues to offer the right conditions both to deliver the value in its existing portfolio and to add new assets.
A key element in Ventures growth has been the development of a flexible and responsive organisational capability, both to deliver projects and to acquire new assets.
The Board believes that a critical success factor for the future is the ability to further develop this organisational capability without putting its responsiveness and flexibility at risk.
Through 2005, Ventures growth has required the investment of all of the financial resources available.
Now the scale of the business, linked to high commodity VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT prices, means that for the first time we have to actively decide and manage the pace of growth.
The Board believes that, based on the existing portfolio of assets, the Company has the capacity to deliver sustained growth through 2008 9.
To maintain the asset base for longer-term growth will clearly require new assets to be added through acquisition.
Venture has a good track record of asset acquisitions, even in difficult market conditions, and believes that opportunities exist to extend this.
Nevertheless, the ability to continue to deliver new assets represents a risk to longer-term growth.
Overall the Board has reaffirmed its commitment to Ventures strategy and has set a track of managed, sustained growth over the next four-year period.
One of the issues that this approach gives rise to is the possibility that, with a managed approach to growth in a high commodity price environment, the Company will generate funds in excess of its operational and investment needs.
Clearly, commodity prices are uncertain and funds will be required for acquisition, but it is now important to address shareholders on policy in relation to the return of capital in some form.
This is specifically addressed in Dividend Policy in the Directors Report.
Having reconfirmed Ventures adherence to its stranded reserves strategy in the UKCS and committed itself to the delivery of sustained, balanced growth, the critical factors for success that the Board has identified are as follows.
Firstly, the capacity of the organisation to deliver must be continuously reinforced ensuring the right number and quality of people are in place.
The maintenance of focused, flexible organisational capability is a key consideration behind the decision to adopt the balanced growth approach.
Secondly, the technical risks inherent in Ventures business must be successfully managed.
This applies to the quality of the physical assets of the business and those elements of third party infrastructure that it uses.
It applies to the understanding of the reservoirs containing the hydrocarbon reserves of the business.
It also applies to the manner in which operational and project activity are managed.
Thirdly, in a very active market, the way in which relationships with key contractors and suppliers are managed is vital to the Companys ability to deliver its plans.
Each of these critical areas has been subject to intensive analysis and the Board is satisfied that the appropriate policies and actions have been identified and are being pursued.
The Board will continue to closely monitor these key underlying requirements for successful implementation of the Companys strategy.
Trinidad In early 2005 the Board announced its strategic decision to withdraw from operations in Trinidad and to sell the Trinidadian assets.
During the year shareholder approval was obtained for the sale of the assets to Ten Degrees North Energy Limited TDNEL, a newly formed Trinidadian entity.
Venture would be a 40% shareholder in the new company.
The decision to withdraw from operations was based on the level of management and investment resources required in relation to the reduced materiality of the assets in Ventures portfolio.
The Company continues to believe that with focused local management there is significant upside potential in the Trinidad assets.
Venture has appropriate control over the plans of TDNEL and has a place on its board.
Following completion of the sale in December 2005, Ventures approach is to be fully supportive of TDNEL, but to ensure that there is no inappropriate involvement of Venture, either in terms of management effort or financial resourcing.
Organisation and Remuneration Having the right organisational capacity is essential if the Company is to achieve its strategic growth objectives.
The Board monitors the way the organisation is performing and its development.
Delivery of planned performance will require both retention of current staff and recruitment of new, high quality people in a market that remains highly competitive.
The Board remains highly focused on the development of a strong and aligned senior management team, but clearly recognises that success depends on the performance of the whole organisation.
The Board continues to believe that the right remuneration structure is very important for retention, recruitment and for aligning employees in the creation of shareholder value.
Ventures basic remuneration model continues to be a base salary structure at around the median level, with performance related incentives for both short and medium term delivery.
Last year, shareholders approved the introduction of an Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan for senior employees.
This allowed us to put annual bonuses within a clear framework of objectives and to make them competitive for genuinely exceptional performance.
From this year we will extend an essentially similar scheme throughout the organisation.
Details of this are given in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Following the IPO we gained shareholder approval for a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for a small group of the most senior management.
This scheme contained extremely ambitious objectives and runs over the period 2003-2006.
The Board is pleased to report that, if the Plan for 2006 is delivered, the outcome will be well into the range of objectives set and there will 28 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT be a substantial payout to participants.
The Board believes that this scheme has been a very powerful motivational and aligning force and has worked to the real benefit of shareholders.
At the time they were set, the objectives were so challenging that we believed that the strong focus on them over the four year period was the right approach.
We remain convinced that this was correct, but we now face the prospect of significant share awards accruing to scheme members in the early part of 2007.
This is the result of success and whilst we do not believe that it represents a major problem, it does create an unevenness in remuneration.
This in turn means that we need to be conscious of retention incentives as we develop the follow-on LTIP scheme.
The proposed new LTIP scheme is described in detail in the Remuneration Report and in the Circular to Shareholders.
It will be proposed to shareholders at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
For the next phase of Venture the Board believes that a more conventional three year rolling scheme with deferred payment is more appropriate.
To provide members with an early sense of having a further stake following the existing scheme awards, we are proposing that the initial period under the new scheme should be 2006-2008.
The combination of schemes that we have and are proposing remain within the 5% and 10% dilution guidelines for delivery at target level and the Board is satisfied that they represent an appropriate sharing of added value for very high level performance.
Risk Management and Internal Audit The Board has reviewed the Companys process for the identification and management of risk and will continue to re-examine this process on an annual basis.
One of the outcomes of this review was a clarification of the role of the Audit Committee in relation to the overall responsibility of the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that the combination of detailed bottom up identification and management of risk with its own top down review is a sound one.
The Board believes that, in particular through work on the Strategic Review, the quality of its input into top down risk management has been enhanced during 2005.
The Board will continue to undertake a review of key risks twice a year, although in practice this process is continuous.
The risk management process is reviewed in more detail below.
A number of important areas of risk have been reviewed during the year and further work is ongoing.
The Board has again accepted the Audit Committees advice that it would not be appropriate to set up a formal Internal Audit function.
This remains partly a function of scale, but perhaps more importantly, an alternative approach to identifying and dealing with risk areas is seen as a better fit for the Company.
This involves examining the overall risk review, including the specific areas of financial management and control risk and, together with the External Auditors, identifying areas that require further analysis or benchmarking.
This work would then be undertaken by appropriate internal or external resources.
Financial controls, fraud risk and tax management are examples of areas that have been or are being handled in this manner.
Board Assessment The Company continues to manage its Board Assessment process in two parts.
The first, conducted around the year-end, is the overall assessment of Board functioning and performance.
This incorporates the review of the Chairmans performance led by the Senior Independent Director.
The second part, to be conducted in the second quarter, is the assessment of the contribution of individual Board members.
For the last two years the overall assessment has been carried out by means of a questionnaire issued to Board members by the Chairman, who collated the answers and brought the key issues back to the full Board for discussion.
Some Board members expressed concerns over this process.
Partly they regarded the formalised nature of a questionnaire as somewhat sterile and partly were concerned that some issues of significance to individual members may be missed or not given adequate weighting.
In assessing performance for 2005 and opportunities for improvement a different approach was used.
The Board set aside time to undertake the review.
A list of issues and topics compiled by the Chairman was circulated ahead of the discussion with clear opportunity to raise additional issues.
Board members were free to submit their views in writing, but in practice none did so and all participated in the discussion.
Issues that were identified with actions for enhanced performance included monthly reporting to the Board, the presentation of information in support of specific decision-making and the presentation of technical risk in communications with the Board.
It was the unanimous view of the Board that this open process was a significant improvement on the questionnaire approach.
Individual member assessments are based on a self-assessment and followed up with a conversation with the Chairman who consults with his colleagues as necessary.
This process ties in with the annual agreement renewal process for non-executive directors.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees were evaluated as part of the overall Board assessment process.
The Audit Committee has a separate evaluation process led by its chairman.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 29
