Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee reviews the Interim and Annual Accounts, internal controls and the results of the audit with the external auditors, maintaining an effective relationship with them.
The Committee also reviews the scope of the audit and other non-audit services and agrees their remuneration.
It makes recommendations on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the Companys external auditors and during 2005 the Board accepted the Audit Committees recommendations to re-appoint PwC as the Companys external auditor.
The Committee reports its activities and makes recommendations to the Board.
Composition and Meetings At the start of 2005 the Audit Committee comprised Mr Nicholls as Chairman, Mr Morgan and Mr Morrison.
In April 2005 Mr Jones joined the Committee and in November 2005 Mr Morrison stood down.
Mr Ehret will be joining the Committee during 2006, becoming the fourth independent member.
During 2005 the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
Messrs Nicholls and Morgan attended all four meetings, Mr Morrison attended three and Mr Jones attended both meetings for which he was eligible.
A representative from the external auditors attended all four meetings and, in addition, has unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has the discretion to decide who, other than its members, shall attend the meetings.
The Finance Director or Chief Executive attended all four meetings during the year at the request of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Board is of the opinion that the Committee meets the requirement to have at least one member, in Mr Nicholls, possessing what The Smith Report describes as recent and relevant experience.
It will be seen from the directors biographical details that he and the other members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience in corporate finance, as members of audit committees or in comparable corporate activities.
Terms of Reference The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
These are available on request from the Company Secretary.
It has access to the external auditors, who in turn have unrestricted access to the Committee.
If required and at the Companys expense, the Committee can obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice.
None was obtained during the year.
Overview of Activities During the year under review the Audit Committee followed a programme structured around the annual reporting cycle and reports from both management and the external auditors.
Principal activities included: Review of the Preliminary Results, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Results published under IFRS and the Interim Report.
On all occasions, the committee receives reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
Examination of submissions presented by the external auditors in relation to the 2004 final audit, the 2005 interim review and the audit planning and strategy for the 2005 final audit.
Review of the results and effectiveness of the final audit including reporting by the external auditors and review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Review and approval of the fee proposals for the final audit and the interim review Private discussions with the external auditors with no executive management present.
Review of the systems of internal control.
Completion of a performance evaluation of its own performance.
Review of the Committees terms of reference.
Review of the Groups whistle blowing policy.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 45 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Internal Audit Function The Committee continually monitors the need for the establishment of an Internal Audit function, bearing in mind the growth in size and complexity of the Company, in accordance with provision D. 2.2 of the Combined Code.
Venture currently obtains independent confirmation on the operation of internal controls from a variety of sources, as detailed below.
As an operator, Venture is subject to audits by the non-operating joint venture parties.
These audits cover all charges made to the joint account and compliance with the administration of the joint operating agreement.
In its own right, Venture undertakes audits on significant third party contracts, utilising the services of specialist independent auditors.
Where Venture has a concern over a particular area a specific review will be instigated using either internal or external resources as required under the direction of the Audit Committee.
This approach of utilising the diverse skill set within the Company supplemented by external individuals enables Venture to cover the full range of business risks that it faces without having to employ full-time resources focussed on internal control reviews.
The results of all audit reviews are reported to the Audit Committee.
During the year, in addition to the established system of Business Risk Workshops, management has run a series of Control Awareness Workshops for all staff.
External Auditors During the year under review the Audit Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
This included information about the policies and processes for maintaining independence, monitoring compliance with relevant requirements and ethical guidance and consideration of all relationships between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
A policy is in place that requires the Audit Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business.
If a request for approval were made the Audit Committee would have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditors were a suitable supplier, whether there was likely to be any threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit and the related fee level both separately and relative to the audit fees.
During 2005, Venture considered using a different provider for tax advice to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the independence or objectivity of the external auditors.
As a consequence, Deloittes & Touche LLP were appointed as tax advisers in March 2006.
For details on fees paid to the external auditors see Note 5 to the Accounts.
Performance Evaluation During 2005 the Committee carried out an internal performance evaluation, designed to produce an objective assessment of the Committees performance and the effectiveness of the external audit function.
It was concluded that the Committee and the audit process were effective and that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference and achieved its remit.
Briefings and training are provided where appropriate to ensure that the Committee remains informed of all material developments in best practice and regulation concerning its remit.
Mark Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 April, 2006 46 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
