Avis Europe plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance Code principles The Company considers that the non-executive component of Introduction the Board helps to provide an effective Board with a strong mix This report describes how the corporate governance principles set of industry-specic knowledge and general commercial experience.
out in the Combined Code are applied by the Company.
The role This balance enables the Board to bring informed and independent of the Board is collectively to provide clear and effective leadership judgement to all aspects of the Companys strategic development of the Company by setting strategic objectives and providing the and performance.
The role of the non-executive Directors is highest values and standards for the conduct of the Companys viewed as especially important in developing strategic proposals business.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that sufficient and in ensuring that the Companys financial controls and risk resources are available to achieve the Companys objectives, for management systems are robust and that the Groups financial ongoing review of management performance and for ensuring that information is sound.
The non-executive Directors also have a a framework of prudent and effective controls is in place to enable key role in scrutinising management performance and monitoring risks to be properly assessed and managed.
the Companys system for monitoring and reporting performance.
They also have responsibility for determining appropriate Board of Directors remuneration levels and succession planning for the executive The Directors of the Company during the period 1 January 2005 Directors.
The Chairman meets with the non-executive Directors to 2 March 2006 are listed below: at least once annually in order to facilitate the non-executive Directors contribution to the Board.
The Company did not have Jean-Pierre Bizet a nominated Senior Independent Director during the period to Alun Cathcart Chairman 2 March 2006 but continues to keep this requirement under review.
Lesley Colyer Les Cullen The Board meets a minimum of six times each year and more Roland DIeteren frequently when business needs require.
In addition to the six Benoit Ghiot scheduled Board meetings in 2005, there were three ad hoc Murray Hennessy Board meetings.
All Directors attended all Board meetings, except Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen that Murray Hennessy missed one scheduled Board meeting and Malcolm Miller Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen and Axel von Ruedorffer each Simon Palethorpe had to miss one ad hoc Board meeting.
The Chairman of each Dr Axel von Ruedorffer of the Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and Kevin M Sheehan resigned 11 April 2005 Audit Committee attended the 2005 Annual General Meeting Martyn Smith and were available to answer shareholders questions during and after the meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Roland DIeteren, Malcolm Miller and Martyn Smith retire by rotation at the forthcoming The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and their Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will stand for re-election.
respective responsibilities are dened in writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairmans key areas of activity are the leadership As at 2 March 2006, the Board of Directors comprises the of the Board, including setting its agenda, ensuring that it receives Chairman, five executive Directors and a further six non-executive clear, accurate and timely information and facilitating the Directors.
The non-executive Directors include three Directors who contribution of the non-executive Directors.
The Chairman also have no other association with Avis Europe plc and are therefore chairs the Nominations Committee and has responsibility for regarded as independent, being Les Cullen, Malcolm Miller and ensuring that Board evaluation processes are carried out and Axel von Ruedorffer.
A further two of the non-executive Directors, their results acted upon.
The Chairman is responsible for strategy, Roland DIeteren and Benoit Ghiot, in addition to one executive in particular for ensuring that effective plans are developed for Director, Jean-Pierre Bizet, are appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. the short-term and long-term development of the Group.
In which has a shareholding of 59.6% in the Company.
The co-ordination with the Chief Executive, the Chairman is responsible obligations of the Directors appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. and for encouraging close and effective working relationships between of s. a. DIeteren n. v. as a shareholder, are set out in a Relationship all levels of country, licensee and Group management.
The Agreement entered into at otation in 1997.
These include an Chairman is also responsible for corporate governance and for obligation for the DIeteren-appointed Directors to exercise their ensuring that the Company maintains effective communication voting rights so as to maintain the independence of the Board as with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
required by the Listing Rules, thus ensuring that all Directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The other To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely access non-executive Director, Gilbert van Marcke fide Lummen, is a former is given to all relevant information.
The Board retains powers executive Director of the Company.
Since 1998 the Board has of decision on all matters of strategy, together with all significant adopted a policy that, notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles commercial issues, including acquisitions and investments and of Association, all Directors should stand for re-election at the first all capital expenditure in excess of a specified level.
The Company Annual General Meeting following their appointment and at least Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are every three years thereafter.
20 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued followed and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all In setting policy, the Committee ensures that appropriate incentives matters of governance.
All Directors have access to the Company are provided to attract, retain and motivate executives of the Secretary whenever they require.
In the event that any Director appropriate calibre, to encourage performance and, in a fair and wishes to take independent professional advice on any point arising responsible manner, to reward individual contributions to the Group.
in connection with the exercise of their duties, in accordance with The Committee takes account of market practice, the Groups written procedure the Company Secretary will arrange this at the position relative to other companies and the pay and employment Companys expense.
The Company Secretary may only be removed conditions of other Group employees.
The Committee consults by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
with the Chairman and or Chief Executive, as appropriate, when determining the individual remuneration package of each executive Details of all Directors remuneration and service contracts are set Director.
However, no Director is involved in deciding his her own out in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 32. remuneration.
The Committee reviews the terms of the executive Directors service contracts, particularly with regard to notice Board Committees periods, termination payments and compensation commitments The Board Committees in place during 2005 were the Nominations in the event of early termination.
The activities of the Committee Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
during the year are described in the Remuneration Report on Each Committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness page 25. annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The terms of reference of each Committee are The members of the Remuneration Committee as at 1 January 2005 available on the Companys website at www.
were Malcolm Miller Chairman, Les Cullen, Roland DIeteren and Axel von Ruedorffer.
The Committee comprises three independent The Nominations Committee ensures that the Company has a non-executive Directors together with Roland DIeteren.
The formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of Company recognises that Roland DIeteren is not regarded as an new Directors.
The Committee regularly reviews the structure and independent non-executive Director but considers it essential that composition of the Board to ensure the required blend of skills and s. a. DIeteren n. v. as the majority shareholder of the Company, is experience appropriate to the Companys needs.
It sets objective represented on the Committee.
As Chairman of s. a. DIeteren n. v. criteria in recommending appointees to the Board, including being Roland DIeteren abstains from discussion and voting on the satisfied that appointees have sufficient time available to devote remuneration of any Directors appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. to the role, especially for chairmanships.
The Committee is also pursuant to the Relationship Agreement referred to above.
There responsible for ensuring that induction and training requirements were no changes to the composition of the Remuneration are met both for new Directors and for the Board as a whole to Committee between 1 January 2005 and 2 March 2006. ensure that Directors regularly update their skills and knowledge, including their knowledge of developments in the Companys The Remuneration Committee met four times during 2005 and all business.
The Committee carries out an annual review of the members attended all meetings except that Roland Dleteren was succession plans for the Board and for senior executives across unable to attend one meeting.
the Group to ensure that continuing management capability is available to match the development needs of the business.
The Remuneration Report to shareholders appears on pages 25 to 32.
During 2005, the Nominations Committee reviewed key succession The Audit Committee assists the Board by ensuring that the priorities and approved a number of leadership changes in different Company presents a balanced and understandable assessment business units.
The Committee also reviewed the Human Resources of its position with regard to financial reporting, including interim, Plan process that is applied across the Group.
preliminary and other formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, where not submitted directly to the Board.
The members of the Nominations Committee as at 1 January 2005 were Alun Cathcart Chairman, Les Cullen, Roland DIeteren, Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the Malcolm Miller and Axel von Ruedorffer.
As recommended by the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness Combined Code, the membership of the Committee comprised of the external audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
There were an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external no changes to the composition of the Nominations Committee auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and between 1 January 2005 and 2 March 2006. fees.
It also reviews annually the Groups system of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating risks facing the The Nominations Committee met once during 2005 and all Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal members attended the meeting.
audit and risk management function and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the Group Finance Director, The Remuneration Committee determines broad policy on senior the appointment and termination of the Director of that function.
executive remuneration and terms of service and approves specic terms of appointment for the Chairman, executive Directors and In 2005 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: senior management.
The Committee is also responsible for the reviewing and approving, prior to Board approval, the Groups structuring and allocation of the Groups share incentive schemes, draft Financial Statements, 2005 interim results statement, the including the setting of appropriate performance targets.
Details internal control report and external auditors report: of the advisers used by the Committee during 2005 are set out on page 25 of the Remuneration Report.
considering, prior to release, all trading updates: Avis Europe plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 reviewing regularly the appropriateness of the Groups accounting an external consultancy.
The questionnaires ask each Board policies and their compliance with appropriate International Committee member to comment on a range of factors which Financial Reporting Standards: contribute to the effectiveness of the Board or the relevant Committee.
The results are reviewed by the Chairman and relevant receiving and considering a report on the Groups systems of feedback is provided to the Board and each Committee.
internal control and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the review and receiving regular updates on The evaluation process for each individual Director is conducted key risk areas of financial control: by the Chairman or in the case of the Chairmans own evaluation examining reports on Group-wide risk matters and the risks as described above by way of interview and the results reviewed associated with major business programmes, and assessing with each Director on a one-to-one basis.
the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system: Directors interests reviewing the internal audit and risk management functions Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company terms of reference and its proposed annual audit programme, are set out below and in the Remuneration Report.
and receiving regular progress reports on its work: assessing the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk Jean-Pierre Bizet is Chief Executive of s. a. DIeteren n. v. Roland management function together with their resources and standing DIeteren is Chairman of s. a. DIeteren n. v. and Gilbert van Marcke in the Group: fide Lummen is a non-executive Director of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which holds 63,609,360 ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the conducting the annual review of the Audit Committees terms Company.
Jean-Pierre Bizet, Roland DIeteren and Benoit Ghiot of reference and effectiveness: are Directors of DIeteren Invest s. a. a wholly owned subsidiary reviewing the effectiveness of whistleblowing arrangements: of s. a. DIeteren n. v. which is the beneficial owner of 484,976,895 ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company.
Details considering and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit of significant contracts entered into with s. a. DIeteren n. v. are fees payable to the Groups external auditors during the year: disclosed below.
appraising the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2005 Financial Statements, including key areas of scope and key Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests in areas of risk: and the shares of the Company or in any material contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
assessing external auditors effectiveness and independence, and making recommendations to the Board regarding their Share capital re-appointment.
The last Annual General Meeting authorised the Company to purchase up to 58,578,803 of its own ordinary shares.
This authority The members of the Audit Committee as at 1 January 2005 were will expire, and is due to be renewed, at the next Annual General Les Cullen Chairman, Malcolm Miller and Axel von Ruedorffer.
The Company has made no purchase of its own shares As recommended by the Combined Code, all the members of during 2005 pursuant to this authority.
Details of the share capital the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
There of the Company are set out in Note 29 to the Consolidated were no changes to the composition of the Committee between Financial Statements.
Substantial shareholdings The Audit Committee met four times in 2005 and all members At 2 March 2006, the Company had been advised of the following attended all meetings.
The Committee meets with executive notiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital: Directors and senior management, as well as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
% of issued share capital DIeteren Invest s. a.
52.68 Board evaluation s. a. DIeteren n. v. 6.91 During 2005 the Board carried out a formal evaluation process Fidelity International Limited 12.39 which is designed to provide a rigorous annual evaluation of the Boards own performance and that of its Committees and individual Franklin Resources, Inc 4.986 Directors.
The evaluation process assesses the effectiveness of As noted above, an agreement governing the relationship between Board and Committee processes to provide a basis for feedback s. a. DIeteren n. v. and the Company was entered into in connection and development where required, and also the contribution and with the Companys otation in 1997.
It includes restrictions on commitment of each individual Director.
As noted above, the s. a. DIeteren n. v. s power to appoint Directors and obligations Chairman has responsibility for the evaluation process and for on those Directors to ensure that the majority of the Board is taking any appropriate action based on the results of the evaluation.
independent of s. a. DIeteren n. v. It also provides that all transactions The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also conducted an between the Company and s. a. DIeteren n. v. will be on an arms evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
The agreement also contains certain anti-dilution rights for s. a. DIeteren n. v. provided that the DIeteren Group owns The evaluation processes for Board performance are conducted more than 30% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
via a set of structured questionnaires prepared by Towers Perrin, 22 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued During the year, the Group has entered into transactions with developed a formal independence policy to help ensure that there the DIeteren Group on an arms length basis with respect to is no impairment to their independence or objectivity.
The principles the purchase and sale of vehicles and the provision of finance.
that underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external Further details of these transactions are set out in Note 41 to auditors are that: the auditor should not audit its own rms work, the Consolidated Financial Statements.
make management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group eg success fees or provide As recommended by the Combined Code the Company carries legal and expert services to the Group in judicial or regulatory directors and ofcers liability insurance which is arranged under proceedings.
Some types of service are proscribed while others an umbrella policy effected by s. a. DIeteren n. v. With effect from that might be perceived to be in conict with the role of the external 1 January 2006, the Company has entered into indemnities auditor must be submitted to the Audit Committee for approval pursuant to the authority granted at the Extraordinary General prior to engagement, regardless of the fees involved.
Meeting on 25 May 2005, indemnifying the Directors against claims brought against them to the extent permitted by English law.
The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the external auditors quarterly in order to consider the independence Shareholder relations and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into account relevant The Board as a whole is responsible for maintaining regular professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not dialogue with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
Finance Director make presentations to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the interim and preliminary results In accordance with UK regulations, the Group audit engagement each year, and are actively involved in an investor relations partner has been rotated this year and will continue to be rotated programme during the rest of the year.
The Chairman is also every five years.
responsible for maintaining a channel through which shareholders can express their views, and for communicating any shareholder  LLP were engaged by the Group issues or concerns to the Board as a whole.
for certain non-audit activities, the fees for which are set out in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The nature and The Chief Executive makes a presentation at the Annual General materiality of this work has been reviewed by the Audit Committee Meeting highlighting key business developments during the year.
which is satisfied that there has been no conict with the need for All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the audit independence and objectivity.
meeting or leave written questions, which will be answered in writing as soon as possible afterwards.
A copy of the Chief A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors Executives presentation may be requested at the Annual General to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Meeting or from the Investor Relations Department.
The Companys website at www.
com provides current and historical Internal control and risk management information for the Group.
The Directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of controls, including operational and compliance Health and safety at work controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal During the year, the Board approved a new Group-wide policy on control arrangements.
These reviews have included an assessment health and safety at work pursuant to which goals and performance of internal controls, and in particular internal financial controls, targets are set, which will be reviewed annually by the Board.
by the Groups internal audit and risk management function, management assurance of the maintenance of control, and reports Charitable and political donations from the external auditor on matters identied in the course of its During the year, the Group made charitable donations totalling statutory audit work.
A key part of the Groups own internal control 54,000: 37,000 2004: 103,000: 71,000 including donations review is a quarterly declaration and annual certication process in respect of the Tsunami disaster appeal.
The Group made no by which the managers responsible confirm the adequacy of their political donations during the year 2004: nil.
systems of internal financial control, their compliance with Group policies, local laws and regulations and are also required to report Payments to creditors any breakdown in control or occurrence of fraud that has come Given the number of countries in which the Group operates it to light.
In addition, the internal audit and risk management is practice to agree the terms of payment at the start of business function co-ordinates a control self-assessment programme with each supplier and to pay in accordance with contractual and through which compliance with best practice for both financial other legal obligations.
The Company had no trade creditors at and non-financial controls is assessed by local management and 31 December 2005 2004: nil.
Auditors Internal control environment The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit services The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control being provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Avis Europe plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The system of internal controls includes but is not limited to: Assessment of business risk The Group views the active management of risk as a key clear denition of the organisation structure and the appropriate management process and recognises that managing business delegation of authorities to management: risk to deliver opportunities is critical to the strategic development maintenance of appropriate segregation of duties together with of the business.
It is ensured that such business risks, which other procedural controls: are classied as strategic, operational, reputational, financial and environmental, are both understood and visible as far as strategic planning and the related annual budgeting and quarterly practicable.
The Groups policy is to ensure that risk is taken review process: on an informed basis rather than unintentional basis.
monthly reporting and review of financial results and key performance statistics: The Groups work in the area of risk management in 2005 was overseen by a Group Risk Management Committee, which adoption of accounting policies to help ensure the consistency, comprised representatives from key business functions and main integrity and accuracy of the Groups financial records: country operations and was chaired by the Chief Executive, who specic treasury policies and the regular reporting and review reported its activities to the Board.
In early 2006 the responsibility of all significant treasury transactions and nancing activities: for the review of risk has been transferred to a new operational board, the Avis Executive Board, membership of which comprises the use of external advisors when required for specialist areas heads of key business functions and of main country corporate like pensions: and operations.
In addition, the Group has encouraged the formation of procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure.
individual risk management committees in a number of its operating companies, the activities of which are co-ordinated by the internal The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system audit and risk management function.
of internal control through the following processes: In 2005 the Group implemented an integrated risk management review of internal and external audit plans: framework with the aim of continuing to ensure that the business review of the results of the control self-assessment programme: understands the key risks it faces and has an embedded risk management approach to all its activities, links risk management review of any significant unsatisfactory control matters reported to business performance reporting and seeks regular improvement in the quarterly returns: in the management of risk by sharing best practice throughout the consideration of individual internal audit reports by the Chairman organisation.
The Group conducts an annual risk review across all of the Committee: operating units and updates its centrally held risk register with each risks impact, probability and mitigation actions.
As part of the collective review of any control issues that arise from internal annual risk review individual business units are required to submit and external audits together with any additional matters brought their major risks together with their associated mitigation actions.
to its attention: This system forms the cornerstone of the risk management review of any significant risks identied by the Groups risk activities of the Group, the aim of which is to provide the Board management process: and with the assurance that the major risks facing the Group have been identied and assessed, and that there are controls either in place discussions with management on any significant new risk or planned to manage these risks.
areas identied by management and the internal and external audit processes.
Internal audit Avis Europe has an internal audit and risk management function, The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board after which is independent of the Groups external auditors and which every Audit Committee meeting.
In satisfying itself that sufficient works in partnership with an outsourced provider, KPMG.
The Audit and appropriate work has been performed, the Board as a whole Committee ensures that this function is appropriately staffed and considers the adequacy and scope of the reports it has received that its scope of work is adequate in the light of the key identied from the Audit Committee along with corroborative evidence risks facing the Group and the other monitoring functions in place.
It also reviews and approves an annual internal audit plan and considers responses to an effectiveness questionnaire distributed The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has completed after each internal audit has been completed.
its annual review of the effectiveness of the embedded system of internal control in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull The Audit Committee also approves the appointment and dismissal Report for the period since 1 January 2005 and is satisfied that it of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and assesses is in accordance with that guidance.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit has unfettered access to management and the Audit Committee.
