CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council issued the revised Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
All Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code to replace the directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM Combined Code issued in 1998.
This statement, together with the at least every three years.
Duncan Lewis, last re-appointed by Directors Remuneration Report, describes how, during the year shareholders in 2002 following his initial appointment, will seek reended 31 March 2005, the Company has applied the main and appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
His biographical details are supporting principles of good governance and has complied with the set out on page 6. provisions set out in the Code.
The directors have direct access to the advice and services of the The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that applicable Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2005. rules and regulations are complied with and that Board procedures are observed.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Independent professional advice may also be The Board taken, at the Companys expense, by directors in the furtherance of their duties.
During the year, the Board comprised the Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and three executive directors Newly appointed directors undergo a structured induction thus maintaining an appropriate balance of independence, programme, including site visits, to ensure that they have the experience and skills.
There have been a number of changes to the necessary knowledge and understanding of the Group and its Board during the year.
Philip Rogerson retired on 30 April 2005 activities.
Continuing development is provided through briefing after serving six years as Chairman and Dipesh Shah, a nonsessions in the course of scheduled Board meetings and executive director since November 2003, was appointed nonother briefing opportunities, covering business specific and executive Chairman on 1 May 2005.
Desmond Smyth, the Senior broader issues.
Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, retired on 28 February 2005 after serving nine years as a non-executive director.
Mike Toms was appointed Chairman of the Audit Board Proceedings Committee from 1 March 2005.
Duncan Lewis, a non-executive director since February 2002, became Senior Independent Director In order to ensure effective control of the Group, the Board reserves from 1 March 2005. certain matters for decision to itself.
These include: long-term objectives and strategy: Since 1 May 2005, the Board therefore comprises a non-executive Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and three business plans and budgets: executive directors.
It is recognised that, from that point, the internal control arrangements: composition of the Board is not in compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the Code which provides that half of the Board, excluding the announcement of results and approval of annual report and Chairman, should be independent, and provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 accounts: of the Code, which provide that the Remuneration Committee and dividend policy: Audit Committee should comprise three independent non-executive directors.
While the Board considers that, for its size, its Board committees and their terms of reference: composition continues to reflect a substantial degree of major capital expenditure: independence, the Nomination Committee has commenced a process for the appointment of an additional non-executive director.
significant Group policies: and acquisitions and divestments.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the non-executive directors is currently independent under the criteria set out in the Code.
The The Board manages these matters at its regular Board meetings and Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is strategy days.
Briefing papers are provided to directors several days satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as non-executive in advance of meetings.
Each meeting reviews financial and directors of the Company.
All directors bring an independent business performance against the budget and plans approved by the judgement to bear on the issues the Board considers.
It also receives reports and presentations from the ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors businesses and minutes and or oral reports of Board Committee ensure that they can contribute significantly to the Board and, meetings.
This ensures that all directors are aware of, and are in a specifically, engage in constructive debate and challenge position to monitor effectively, the Groups operations and current management in relation to both the development of strategy and the issues.
Other specific business, which needs to be addressed performance of the Group against the goals set by the Board.
between scheduled Board meetings, is dealt with at special Board meetings, often by conference telephone.
The Chairman meets There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman the non-executive directors informally, without executive directors and the Group Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing being present, at least once during the year.
These meetings and and agreed by the Board.
other regular informal discussions create the opportunity for valuable input from the non-executive directors.
18 Corporate Governance Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 To ensure that its broad range of responsibilities is managed Nomination Committee Report effectively and in an appropriate manner, the Board has established During the year the Nomination Committee comprised Philip a number of committees.
These are the Executive Committee, Rogerson Chairman, Duncan Lewis, Dipesh Shah, Desmond Smyth Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination until his retirement in February 2005, Mike Toms and Patrick Committee.
The Board has adopted terms of reference for each Haren.
It has a remit to: Committee and these are available on request from the Company consider and make recommendations to the Board on all new and on the Groups website www.
appointments of directors having regard to the overall balance and composition of the Board: Executive Committee The Group Chief Executive is responsible for leading, managing and consider succession planning: and controlling the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to those make recommendations to the Board concerning the rematters reserved for decision by the Board.
He chairs the Executive appointment of any non-executive director following conclusion Committee, which is authorised, subject to the powers delegated to it of his or her specified term of office.
and subject to reporting its significant decisions to the next Board meeting, to take whatever management action it considers necessary During the year the Committee, led by the Senior Independent to safeguard the interests of the Company and to further the strategy, Director, recommended to the Board the appointment of Dipesh business objectives and targets established by the Board.
During Shah as Chairman, following the announcement of Philip Rogersons the year, the Executive Committee comprised the three executive retirement.
As a result of its deliberations the Committee considered directors, Ian Thom, Company Secretary and Laurence MacKenzie, that Dipesh possessed the qualities required to fulfil the role of Managing Director of T&D and Powerteam.
There were 10 Chairman of the Board and was delighted when he agreed to scheduled meetings and a number of additional meetings to the appointment.
Given the recentness of his appointment as a consider specific issues.
The Chairman may attend these meetings non-executive director, the Committee did not consider it necessary at his discretion.
The key responsibilities and tasks delegated to the to re-engage executive search consultants for that appointment.
Committee include: Dipesh Shah abstained from the Nomination Committees implementing Board policy: recommendation to the Board on his appointment as Chairman.
ensuring effective performance and co-ordination of the Groups During the year a description of the role and capabilities for the business activities: appointment of a new non-executive director was prepared and the overseeing financial and operational performance, including Committee appointed executive search consultants to identify and health and safety and environmental performance: propose candidates with a view to maintaining the balance of skills and abilities on the Board and to provide an opportunity to enhance monitoring and implementing improvements in financial membership of the Boards committees.
It is anticipated that the performance: Committee will recommend the appointment of a new non-executive approving expenditure and other financial commitments as director during the financial year 2005 06. delegated by the Board: Audit Committee Report considering major changes in organisational structure: and During the year the Audit Committee comprised Desmond Smyth a approving appointments to boards of subsidiary companies.
chartered accountant, and Managing Director of Ulster Television plc until 1999, who had chaired the Committee continually from 1996 to Remuneration Committee his retirement in February 2005, Duncan Lewis, Dipesh Shah and During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Duncan Mike Toms.
Mike Toms has chaired the Committee since 1 March Lewis Chairman, Mike Toms, Dipesh Shah and Desmond Smyth 2005.
On his appointment as Chairman of the Board, on 1 May until his retirement in February 2005.
On his appointment as 2005, Dipesh Shah stood down from the Committee.
The Board Chairman on 1 May 2005, Dipesh Shah stood down from the is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent Committee.
The Committees function is to determine remuneration and relevant financial experience.
Biographical details of the current policy and specific remuneration packages for executive directors, members of the Audit Committee are provided on page 6. the Chairman and the Company Secretary, including, where appropriate, pension arrangements and service contracts, and recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Committee consults with the Group Chief Executive on aspects of the other executive directors and the Company Secretarys remuneration.
The activities of the Committee, remuneration policy and the remuneration of directors, are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 28.
Corporate Governance 19 The external auditors Ernst and Young LLP, the internal auditors The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the  LLP, the Chairman, the Group Finance appointment of internal and external auditors and their remuneration Director and other executive directors may attend meetings at the and determines their terms of engagement.
The Committee has invitation of the Committee.
The Committees remit is to: carried out an assessment of the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process, monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: requirements and in line with the guidance set out in the Smith review significant financial reporting issues and judgements Guidance on Audit Committees.
The results of the assessment were which they contain: reported to the Board.
A policy is in place on the employment of former employees of the external auditors.
review accounting policies: monitor and review the effectiveness of internal controls and the The Boards policy on the supply of non-audit services by the Groups risk management system: external auditors specifies areas of non-audit work that can be carried out by the external auditors and the financial thresholds monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit above which non-audit work requires the approval of the Board.
function: Any individual fees in relation to non-audit services in excess of 50% of the annual audit fee and or any excess of the aggregate fees for oversee the relationship with the external auditors: and non-audit services above 100% of the annual audit fee require make recommendations on these matters to the Board Board approval.
Within these parameters, where it is generally for decision.
considered reasonable that the external auditors undertake nonaudit services for sound commercial and practical reasons without During the year, each meeting of the Committee received a report inhibiting their objectivity, then engagement is permitted.
Such from the Risk Management Committee covering its review of services include independent certification, reporting for Stock business risk registers and steps taken to enhance further the risk Exchange purposes and taxation.
The cost of services provided by management framework within the Group.
The internal auditors the external auditors during the year is detailed in note 4 to the provide each meeting of the Committee with a report covering risk accounts.
Much of the non-audit cost was associated with planning assurance and updates on work carried out under the internal audit for the introduction of IFRS and ongoing taxation services.
The external auditors provide the Committee with reports on the year the Board gave approval for the external auditors to provide the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
During the year, taxation and assurance services in relation to the disposal of Sx3.
the Committee considered progress reports from the project team on Involvement by the external auditors in these areas was considered the planned implementation of IFRS.
appropriate and in the best commercial interests of the Group.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, whereby employees may raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters and have them investigated.
Attendance at Meetings The following table shows the number of, and each individual members attendance at, meetings of the Board as well as of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year: Director Patrick Patrick Duncan Harry Philip Dipesh Desmond Mike 1 Bourke Haren Lewis McCracken Rogerson Shah Smyth Toms 1 1 1 2 Committee Membership N N, R, A N N, R, A N, R, A N, R, A denotes chairman Board 10 10 10 10 10 9 8 10 10 meetings Nomination 33 2333 3 meetings Remuneration 9 978 9 meetings Audit 3 3 3 2 3 meetings 1 N - Nomination Committee Retired in February 2005 2 R - Remuneration Committee Appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee in March 2005 A - Audit Committee 20 Corporate Governance Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 Board Performance Evaluation Internal Control The Board has established a formal process to evaluate its own Turnbull compliance performance annually.
This process was first undertaken in the The Board has fully implemented the Turnbull Guidance Internal autumn of 2004 and conducted by the Company Secretary.
Each Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Board member and the Company Secretary completed a questionnaire on the effectiveness of the Board and the Chairman.
The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control In addition, Board Committee members completed a questionnaire and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to on each Committees performance.
The Senior Independent manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Director also met separately with the non-executive directors, taking objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute into account the views of the executive directors, to discuss the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards performance of the Chairman.
Based on the responses to the monitoring of controls covers a wide range including financial, questionnaire and these meetings, a report was considered by the operational and compliance controls together with risk management.
Board, and individual Committees as appropriate, and the specific actions identified have been implemented to ensure continuous There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing improvement in Board performance.
the Group's significant risks.
This process has been in place for the year ended 31 March 2005 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, accords with the Turnbull Guidance Communications with Shareholders Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director have regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and During the year, work has continued through the internal control analysts.
The Chairman introduces the presentation of the and risk management process to deal with areas of improvement Companys interim and preliminary results to analysts and investors which come to managements and the Boards attention.
and also meets with major shareholders from time to time.
In Businesses are required to maintain risk registers and review addition, the Chairman has advised major shareholders, in writing, of them on a regular basis.
his availability along with that of the Senior Independent Director and newly appointed non-executive directors should there be issues Risk management which the shareholders may wish to discuss.
The Chairman of the The Groups strategy is to follow an appropriate risk policy, which Remuneration Committee consulted with major shareholders on effectively manages exposures related to the achievement of proposed changes to executive directors remuneration policy.
The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, comprises a number of senior managers To ensure that the Board is informed of shareholder views it receives from across the Group and meets monthly to assist the Board in regular feedback reports from analysts and major shareholders, fulfilling its risk management and control responsibilities.
The assimilated by the Companys brokers and financial PR consultants, Committee reviews the level of exposure to individual risks and its in particular following presentations and meetings on the publication acceptability within the policy on risk.
It reports to the Audit of financial results.
Analysts notes are provided to the Board on a Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board on a regular regular basis.
It reviews the risk management process and ensures appropriate communication between the Board, Audit Committee, The principal method of communicating with the majority of Executive Committee, internal audit and those with responsibility for shareholders is via the Annual Report and Accounts or Annual risk management issues within the businesses.
Each business has Review and Summary Financial Statement and the Groups website nominated a risk manager to ensure that the risk management and www.
co. uk which contains details of financial internal control systems are regularly reviewed, updated and presentations to major shareholders and other information about the embedded into business processes.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM.
reviews individual business risk registers as well as registers covering All directors were present at the 2004 AGM and all intend to be a number of cross functional areas including group finance, treasury, present at the 2005 AGM to answer shareholders questions.
regulatory affairs, procurement and information technology.
Business continuity and disaster recovery arrangements are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Corporate Governance 21 The Risk Management Committee has responsibility for monitoring Business performance risk that businesses comply with the Groups Corporate Social Business performance risk is the risk that one or more of the Responsibility CSR obligations.
The Committee reviews the Groups businesses may not perform as expected either due to businesses CSR strategy and programmes.
During the year, social, internal factors or due to competitive pressures in the markets in ethical and environmental SEE risks were incorporated into each which they operate.
Performance risks specific to each business are business risk register.
identified in that businesss risk register and managed at that level.
At the Group level, business performance risk is managed through a Risk issues are also addressed at management meetings through number of measures: ensuring the appropriate management team is the review of risk registers.
These meetings consider early warning in place for each business: rigorous budget and business planning: signs of risks materialising and significant control failings or monthly reporting and variance analysis: financial controls: key weaknesses.
performance indicators: and regular forecasting.
The Executive Committee and the Board specifically consider the Business continuity risk corporate risk register which sets out those risks which are managed The Group has in place measures to manage the risk that one or at a corporate level and or the management of which is determined more of its businesses sustains a greater than necessary financial by policy set at a corporate level: impact through inability to carry on its operations either for a short or prolonged period.
These include managing the risk of damage to Regulatory risk the T&D network because of adverse weather conditions and the risk In Northern Ireland, the main regulatory risks faced by the Group of interruptions to Huntstown 1s availability.
In general, the risk is relate to the management by NIE of a wide range of regulatory managed through: prudent and safe operational processes: a transactions with NIAER and DETI, including compliance with the focused capital expenditure programme: sound maintenance Licence and the impact of price control reviews.
The regulatory practices: and insurance measures such as business interruption framework within which NIE operates is described in the insurance.
A specific emergency plan, regularly reviewed and Operating Review.
tested, exists to address incidents impacting the T&D network.
In addition, each business maintains a business continuity disaster NIEs relationship with NIAER and DETI is managed by senior recovery plan which is reviewed and tested annually.
management and by a dedicated regulatory affairs team through frequent meetings, informed dialogue and formal correspondence.
Health and safety risk The regulatory team also monitors licence compliance and the status The Group is committed to ensuring a safe working environment.
of current regulatory transactions with the regulated businesses.
The risks arising from inadequate management of health and safety NIEs approach to price control reviews is to be pro-active in matters are the exposure of employees and third parties to the risk promoting approaches that will lead to an agreed outcome.
These of injury and potential liability and or loss of reputation.
These risks include the extension of price controls in return for undertakings by are closely managed by the Group through: the strong promotion of the regulated business and adherence to relevant regulatory a health and safety culture: well defined health and safety policies: precedent and best practice.
and the Groups health, safety and risk business plan.
In the RoI, the Group is not subject to direct price control.
VP&E, Management development however, is exposed to the impact of regulatory decisions as well as Long-term competitiveness and viability of the business depends on changes in legislation and or regulation which impact its generation the Groups ability to retain or attract personnel of appropriate or supply activities.
The regulatory framework in the RoI is quality.
This risk is managed through development plans which are described in the Operating Review.
These are accompanied by the application of specific policies in areas such as training, Through senior management and its regulatory team, VP&E management development and performance management.
Senior maintains regular interaction with both CER and DCMNR at a management succession is reviewed by the Board.
A pro-active approach is taken to consultations by CER and DCMNR on matters such as new wholesale trading arrangements, renewable energy support and tariff setting.
22 Corporate Governance Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 Financial and business control Internal audit Strong financial and business controls are necessary to ensure the The Groups emphasis on sound management structures and integrity and reliability of financial and other information on which policies and procedures is backed up by operational and financial the Group relies for day-to-day operations, external reporting and for review mechanisms and an externally resourced internal audit longer term planning.
The Group exercises financial and business function, provided by  LLP.
During the year, control through a combination of: qualified and experienced financial the internal auditors have carried out a programme of audits and a teams: detailed performance analysis: established policies in areas review of the risk management process.
The internal auditors report such as treasury and commodity hedging: budgeting and cash flow to the Executive Committee each month and results of the audits are forecasting: a fully integrated accounting system: and clearly defined reported to management and the Audit Committee.
The internal auditors carry out an internal audit plan auditors carry out follow-up reviews to determine the extent of to test the effectiveness of financial and business controls.
implementation of actions that have been agreed by management.
The annual internal audit and risk assurance programme and Pension risk significant internal audit findings are reviewed by the Audit The Group is required to manage the risk that the costs of meeting Committee, as are any relevant reports prepared by the its pension obligations increase in excess of expectations.
significant step towards managing this risk was taken in 1998 when the Focus defined benefit section of the Viridian Group Pension Annual assessment Scheme VGPS was closed to new entrants.
Both the Group and The Board has carried out its annual review of effectiveness of the the trustees of VGPS are looking to reduce risk further through system of internal control.
In carrying out this review it considered a changes in asset allocation and the introduction of measures such number of key reports.
The Executive Committee reports to the as currency management.
Specialist actuarial and investment Board on its assessment of current significant risks.
A report from advice is taken with respect to management of VGPSs assets and the Risk Management Committee verified that each executive liabilities.
The Group intends to apply some 25m of the proceeds director and senior manager had completed and signed a letter of from the disposal of Sx3 towards the pension deficit in VGPS.
representation confirming his or her responsibility in relation to internal control and the completeness and accuracy of his or her Strategic planning risk register and risk reporting, disclosing any known material failings The Group faces the risk that it fails to plan appropriately for the or weaknesses in internal controls.
Reports were also considered medium to long-term.
This risk is addressed in several ways.
Each from the Chairman of the Audit Committee on risk management year the five year business plan is reviewed by the Board.
The issues discussed during the year and from the internal auditors on Board holds a strategy review, at least annually, to consider the plans the risk management process.
of the key businesses against a background of the strategic and competitive opportunities and threats faced by the Group.
The Board regards the development of the system of internal control Investment decisions are accompanied by detailed analysis, both as an ongoing process and continues to review and develop the short and long-term, of the markets in which the Group operates.
internal control systems of the Group.
Social, ethical and environmental risk The Group has in place measures to protect against financial and reputational risk from any failure to manage SEE risks.
In general, SEE risks are managed through embedding CSR into the Groups management processes and core business activities.
Environmental risk, in particular, is managed through: a detailed environmental risk register: an environmental action plan: a certified environmental management system: and identification of potential environmental exposures.
These matters are monitored by nominated environmental compliance officers in key parts of the business.
