793529 1140 3 6 05 10:40 Page 60 Corporate Governance has carried out an assessment and has determined in its judgement that all of the nonIntroduction executive directors are independent within the requirements of the Combined Code.
As Statement of Corporate Governance Policy at the date of this Annual Report, the Companys board comprised the Chairman, five The Board of directors of the Company is committed to high standards of corporate executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
governance, which it considers are critical to business integrity and to maintaining Committees investors trust in the Company.
The Group expects all its directors and employees to Under NYSE rules, US companies are required to have a nominating corporate act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The Group will strive to act in accordance with governance committee and a compensation committee, composed entirely of the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of independent directors.
The Companys Nominations and Governance Committee and business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the Remuneration Committee have terms of reference and composition that comply with culture of every country in which it does business.
The Nominations and Governance Committee is The Combined Code chaired by the Company Chairman, and its other members are non-executive directors of the Company and the Chief Executive.
The Remuneration Committee is composed The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the United Kingdom on the London Stock entirely of non-executive directors whom the Board has determined to be independent Exchange.
As such, the Company is required to make a disclosure statement in the manner described above.
The Companys Audit Committee is composed entirely concerning its application of the principles of and compliance with the provisions of the of non-executive directors whom the Board has determined to be independent in the revised Combined Code on corporate governance the Combined Code.
For the manner described above and who meet the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the financial year ended 31 March 2005, the directors confirm that, save for the one Securities Exchange Act.
The Company considers that the terms of reference of these matter referred to below, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of committees are generally responsive to the relevant NYSE rules but may not address all section 1 of the Combined Code.
The disclosures provided below are nevertheless aspects of these rules.
intended to provide the reader with an explanation of the Companys corporate governance.
Corporate Governance Guidelines The Combined Code provides that a companys Remuneration Committee should be Under NYSE rules, US companies must adopt and disclose corporate governance composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
Vodafone has posted its statement of compliance with the Combined Code Chairman of the Board, is not treated as being independent for the purposes of the on its website at www.
The Company also has adopted a Group Combined Code and although the Board concluded that the Chairman provided Governance Manual that applies to all directors and employees.
The Company important contributions to the work of the Remuneration Committee, his offer to step considers that its corporate governance guidelines are generally responsive to, but may down as a member to ensure the Companys strict compliance with the Combined not address all aspects of, the relevant NYSE rules.
He stepped down in March 2005. Business Principles US Listing Requirements In addition to the formal requirements of the Listing Authorities and Stock Exchanges described above, the Group has developed and implemented its own Business The Companys ADSs are listed on the NYSE and the Company is, therefore, subject to Principles which define its relationships with all of its stakeholders and govern how the rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws and the rules of the SEC.
The Vodafone conducts its day-to-day business.
These can be found on the Groups NYSE requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply with the NYSEs website at www.
corporate governance rules, but foreign private issuers such as the Company are exempt from most of those rules.
However, pursuant to NYSE Rule 303A.
11, the The Business Principles apply to all Vodafones mobile operating subsidiaries.
Chief Company is required to disclose a summary of any significant ways in which the Executives are responsible for ensuring application of the Business Principles within corporate governance practices it follows differ from those required by the NYSE for US their business.
Vodafone also promotes the Business Principles to its associated companies, as summarised below.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 US applies to the Company.
The Company has Every employee is expected to act in accordance with the Business Principles.
A established a Disclosure Committee with responsibility for reviewing and approving condential email facility has been established for employees to report any concerns.
controls and procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information, The Group tracks implementation of its Business Principles through its internal audits.
and other procedures necessary to enable the Chief Executive and Financial Director to provide their Certications of the Annual Report on Form 20-F that is led with the Directors and Organisation SEC.
The Company has also adopted a corporate code of ethics for senior financial ofcers, separate from and additional to its Business Principles, described below.
A Board Composition copy of this code is available on the Groups website.
The Company is making good The Companys Board of directors consists of fifteen directors, fourteen of whom progress on the work required to ensure compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanesserved throughout the 2005 financial year.
At 31 March 2005, in addition to the Oxley Act, which is required for the financial year ending 31 March 2007.
Chairman, Lord MacLaurin, there were five executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
The Deputy Chairman, Paul Hazen, is the nominated senior independent Differences from New York Stock Exchange corporate director and his role includes being available for approach or representation by governance practices directors or significant shareholders who may feel inhibited from raising issues with the Independence Chairman.
He is also responsible for conducting an annual review of the performance The NYSE rules require that a majority of the Board must be comprised of independent of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening an annual meeting directors and the rules include detailed tests that US companies must use for of the non-executive directors.
The Combined Code requires a companys board to assess Sir John Bond joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 January 2005. and make a determination as to the independence of its directors.
While the Ken Hydon and Sir David Scholey will retire on conclusion of the Companys AGM on Companys Board does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed tests, it 60 | Governance 793529 1140 3 6 05 10:40 Page 61 26 July 2005.
The Company considers all of its present non-executive directors to be of recommendations to the Board.
The evaluation process is designed to cover Board fully independent.
The executive directors are Arun Sarin Chief Executive, Sir Julian processes, the structure and capability of the Board, strategic alignment, Board Horn-Smith, Peter Bamford, Thomas Geitner and Ken Hydon.
dynamics and the skills brought to the Board by each director.
A series of questionnaires has also been developed to facilitate the evaluation processes for each The following table shows directors attendance at meetings during the 2005 financial Board Committee.
year: The evaluations found the performance of each director to be effective and concluded Nominations and Audit Governance Remuneration that the Board provides the effective leadership and control required for a listed Board Committee Committee Committee company.
The Nominations and Governance Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in Number of Meetings July 2005 continued to be effective and the Company should support their re-election.
during the year to 31 March 2005 8436 Information and Training 1 Lord MacLaurin 8 3 6 Actual financial results are presented to each Board meeting, together with reports 1 Paul Hazen 6 4 3 from the executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility.
The Chief Arun Sarin 8 3 Executive presents his report to each meeting which deals, amongst other things, with Sir Julian Horn-Smith 8 investor relations, giving Board members an opportunity to develop an understanding of Peter Bamford 8 the views of major investors.
From time to time, the Board receives detailed 3 Vittorio Colao 1 presentations from non-Board members on matters of signicance or on new Thomas Geitner 8 opportunities for the Group.
Financial plans, including budgets and forecasts, are 2 Ken Hydon 8 regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The non-executive directors periodically visit 4 Sir John Bond 2 different parts of the Group and are provided with briengs and information to assist Dr Michael Boskin 6 2 4 them in performing their duties.
The non-executive directors and the Chairman Lord Broers 8 4 3 regularly meet without executives present.
John Buchanan 8 4 1 Penny Hughes 8 6 The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience 2 Sir David Scholey 842 to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
On appointment, all Professor Jrgen Schrempp 7 2 5 directors are provided with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, Luc Vandevelde 8 5 responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public and listed company and also have the opportunity to discuss organisational, operational and administrative matters with Notes: the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
necessary, more formal training is provided.
2 Ken Hydon and Sir David Scholey will resign from the Board on conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2005.
3 Vittorio Colao left the Board in July 2004.
There was only one meeting held during the year whilst he was a director.
Matters for the Board 4 Sir John Bond joined the Board on 1 January 2005 and from then until 31 March there were three Board meetings.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically referred to it for decision, In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings to deal including: with specic matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another the approval of Group commercial strategy: engagement, as was the case for a number of directors in the year, are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relevant for such meeting and are able to major capital projects: discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
the adoption of any significant change in accounting policies or practices: and Re-election of Directors material contracts not in the ordinary course of business.
During the year the Company reviewed its policy regarding the retirement of directors This schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed and updated by and, although having no obligation to do so, resolved that, in the interests of good the Nominations and Governance Committee in January 2004 and its proposals were corporate governance, all directors should offer themselves for re-election annually.
subsequently approved by the Board.
Its currency and continued validity were Accordingly, at the AGM, to be held on 26 July 2005, other than Ken Hydon and Sir assessed as part of the performance evaluations conducted in the 2005 financial year David Scholey who are retiring at the conclusion of the AGM, all the directors will be described earlier in this Report.
The agenda for Board meetings are initially developed retiring and, being eligible and on the recommendation of the Nominations and by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary and are nalised by the Chairman.
Governance Committee, will offer themselves for re-election.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Performance Evaluation have resolved to ensure the provision, to any director who believes it may be required in the furtherance of his or her duties, of independent professional advice at the cost of Performance evaluation of the Board of directors, its Committees and individual the Company.
directors takes place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms of reference of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
The Chairman leads the Executive Management assessment of the Chief Executive and the non-executive directors, the Chief Executive reviews the executive directors and the senior independent director conducts the The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads and regional review of the performance of the Chairman.
Each Board Committee undertakes a Chief Executives, meet monthly as the Executive Committee and the Integration and review of its own work and, in relation to the performance of the Board, each director is Operations Committee, both under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The required to complete a comprehensive questionnaire, the results of which are analysed Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups and discussed by the Nominations and Governance Committee prior to the presentation businesses, the overall financial performance of the Group in fullment of strategy, Governance | 61 793529 1140 3 6 05 10:40 Page 62 Corporate Governance continued plans and budgets and Group capital structure and funding.
It also reviews major Internal Control and Disclosure Controls and acquisitions and disposals.
The Integration and Operations Committee is responsible Procedures for setting operational plans, budgets and forecasts, product and service development, Introduction customer segmentation, managing delivery of multi-market propositions and managing shared resources.
The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Guidance, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, for the year under Committees of the Board review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
These procedures, which are The standing Board committees are the Audit Committee, the Nominations and subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The composition and terms managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
of reference of these committees are published on the Companys website at Responsibility www.
The Secretary to these standing Board Committees is the Company Secretary or his nominee.
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The Audit Committee achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute The Audit Committee is comprised of nancially literate members having the necessary assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process of managing the risks ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Solely for the purpose of associated with social, environmental and ethical impacts is also discussed under fullling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Combined Code, Corporate Responsibility, below.
the Board has designated John Buchanan, who is an independent non-executive Control structure director, as its financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details of John The Board sets the policy on internal control that is implemented by management.
This Buchanan can be found in Directors and Senior Management.
is achieved through a clearly dened operating structure with lines of responsibility and Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required, amongst other things, to delegated authority.
The Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, oversee the relationship with the external auditors, to review the Companys preliminary manages this on a day-to-day basis.
results announcement, interim results and annual financial statements, to monitor compliance with statutory and listing requirements for any exchange on which the Written policies and procedures have been issued which clearly define the limits of Companys shares are quoted, to review the scope, extent and effectiveness of the delegated authority and provide a framework for management to deal with areas of activity of the Group Internal Audit Department, to engage independent advisers as it significant business risk.
These policies and procedures are reviewed and, where determines is necessary and to perform investigations.
At least twice a year, the Audit necessary, updated at Executive Committee meetings.
Committee meets separately with the external auditors and the Group Audit Director Control environment without management being present.
Further details on the overseeing of the The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting relationships with the external auditors can be found under Directors Report information to the directors.
This system is properly documented and regularly Auditors and the Report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 64. reviewed.
The Nominations and Governance Committee Budgets are prepared by subsidiary management and subject to review by both The Nominations and Governance Committee, which provides a formal and transparent regional management and the directors.
Forecasts are revised on a quarterly basis and procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board, generally engages compared against budget.
When setting budgets and forecasts, management external consultants to advise on prospective Board appointees.
This year, the identies, evaluates and reports on the potential significant business risks.
Committee oversaw the appointment of a new Financial Director to take over from Ken The Executive Committee and the Board review management reports on the financial Hydon upon his retirement and recommended the appointment of a further nonresults and key operating statistics.
Detailed role proles were agreed by the Committee before external search consultants were engaged to prepare a shortlist of potentially suitable Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Groups employees with candidates.
Only after a rigorous interview process were the appointments continuing education, training and development actively encouraged through a wide recommended to the Board.
variety of schemes and programmes.
The Group has adopted a set of values to act as a framework for its people to exercise judgement and make decisions on a consistent The Committee also reviewed the Groups succession plans, directed the performance basis.
evaluations described earlier in this Annual Report, discussed matters of corporate governance and assessed the independence of non-executive directors prior to Directors are appointed to associated undertakings and joint ventures and attend the reporting to the Board.
Board meetings and review the key financial information of those undertakings.
Clear guidance is given to those directors on the preparation that should take place before The Remuneration Committee these Board meetings and their activity at the Board meeting.
It is the Groups policy The Remuneration Committee is responsible to the Board for the assessment and that its auditors are appointed as auditors of associated companies and joint ventures, recommendation of policy on executive remuneration and packages for individual where possible.
The Committee has regular private sessions without executives The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the financial implications present.
Further information on the Committees activities are contained in the Boards of the acquisition and key performance gures.
A sensitivity analysis takes place of the Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration.
key assumptions made in the analysis.
Post investment appraisals of the Groups investments are conducted on a periodic and timely basis.
A Treasury Report is distributed electronically on a daily basis that reports on treasury borrowings and investments.
62 | Governance 793529 1140 3 6 05 10:40 Page 63 The Board reviews a half-yearly report detailing any significant legal actions faced by Relations with Shareholders Group companies.
The Company holds brieng meetings with its major institutional shareholders in the The Executive Committee monitors legal, environmental and regulatory matters and UK, the US and in Continental Europe, usually twice each year after the interim results approves appropriate responses or amendments to existing policy.
and preliminary announcement, to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and complete view of the Groups performance and the issues faced by the Monitoring and review activities Group.
Telecommunications analysts of stockbrokers are also invited to presentations There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting of the financial results.
The Company, through its Investor Relations team, responds to any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
During the year, the Company hosted an analyst and investor day at its headquarters in Newbury, England.
The day consisted of a series of A formal annual conrmation is provided by the chief executive officer and chief presentations by the senior management from Vodafones largest mobile operating financial officer of each Group company detailing the operation of their control systems subsidiaries and from Verizon Wireless, its associated undertaking in the United States.
Regional management, the Audit Committee and the These presentations provided an overview of each of the individual businesses and Board review the results of this conrmation.
were broadcast live via a webcast on the Companys website.
The Chief Executive and the Financial Director undertake a review of the quality and The principal communication with private investors is through the provision of the timeliness of disclosures that includes formal annual meetings with the regional chief Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement, the interim results and the AGM, an executives and the Disclosure Committee.
occasion which is attended by all the Companys directors and at which all A Group Internal Audit Department, reporting directly to the Audit Committee, shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board undertakes periodic examination of business processes on a risk basis and reports on of directors as well as the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations and controls throughout the Group.
The AGM is broadcast live on the Companys website, www.
com, and a recording of the webcast can subsequently be viewed on Reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on certain internal controls the website.
All substantive resolutions at the Companys AGMs are decided on a poll.
and relevant financial reporting matters, are presented to the Audit Committee and The poll is conducted by the Companys Registrars and scrutinised by Electoral Reform management.
The proxy votes cast in relation to all resolutions are disclosed to those in Review of effectiveness attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are published in national newspapers in the UK, the US and Ireland and on the Companys website and The Directors, the Chief Executive and the Financial Director consider that any controls announced via the regulatory news service.
Financial and other information is made and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only available on the Companys website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired control objectives.
The Groups management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, in identifying the companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
The Directors, the Chief Executive and the Financial Director confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and the disclosure controls and procedures through the monitoring process set out above and are not aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal control.
The Directors, the Chief Executive and the Financial Director have evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures and, based on that evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
During the period covered by this Annual Report, there were no changes in the Companys internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect internal control over financial reporting.
