Corporate governance The directors consider that with the exception of Code provision executive in running the business: the latter is obliged to comply A.
3.2 as set out below, the board has complied with all the with a practical schedule reviewed at least annually of matters provisions of good governance set out in the Combined Code requiring board approval before implementation: this schedule is issued in July 2003. published on the groups website.
The agenda for each regular board meeting includes substantial reports on all aspects of the Directors groups business and ad hoc reports are circulated if decisions are With advice and assistance from Spencer Stuart an executive required between meetings.
Before the commencement of each selection consultant, Lord Boyce was proposed for election at the regular board meeting, the chairman meets with the non-executive Annual General Meeting in 2004.
More recently, following the directors alone.
announcement in October 2004 that Martin Jay would be stepping Mr A F Given has been designated as senior independent director.
down as chairman, Spencer Stuart and the Nomination committee The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings excluding Martin Jay were each extensively involved in the throughout the year was as follows: process which resulted in the appointment of Michael Jeffries as a non-executive director in the expectation that he would assume the Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination chairmanship from Mr Jay when the latter retires in July 2005.
Mr M Jay 7 7 6 6 Baroness Blackstone, Mr Given, Mr Jeffries and Mr Thorpe are Mr D M Barclay 6 7 3 4 2 2 considered to be independent.
The board has specifically considered the situation of each of Mr Barclay and Lord Boyce and Baroness Blackstone 7 7 7 7 6 6 has determined in each case that they are independent for the Lord Boyce 4 5 3 4 3 4 purposes of the Combined Code.
Mr Barclay is considered to be from: 28.07.04 independent as he is no longer an employee of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, and has not provided advice to VT since becoming Mr C J Cundy 7 7 a director.
No advisory fees have been paid to DKW since Mr A F Given 6 7 4 4 6 7 December 2001.
Sir Jock Slater was considered independent during his appointment.
Mr P J Lester 7 7 6 6 During the initial part of the financial period, the board was not Mr T J Madden 2 2 compliant with Combined Code requirement A.
3.2 that 50% to: 09.08.04 of its members should be independent non-executive directors.
Mr P J McIntosh 7 7 However, following the retirement of Mr R W Taylor and Mr T J Madden and the determination by the board that both Mr D M Sir Jock Slater 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 Barclay and Lord Boyce are independent, since early September to: 28.07.04 2004 the board has been compliant in this regard.
Mr S E Tarrant 7 7 Following the retirement of Martin Jay, the board will comprise five Mr R W Taylor 2 2 independent non-executive directors sitting alongside the chairman to: 28.07.04 and four executive directors which the board considers to be a satisfactory balance.
Each director, including the chief executive, Mr D A Thorpe 7 7 4 4 7 7 submits for re-appointment at least once every three years.
Figures in brackets show the maximum number of meetings which could have been attended Copies of the executive directors service contracts and the nonexecutive directors letters of appointment are available for All newly appointed directors are provided with a structured inspection at the registered office.
induction programme which includes meetings both internally and The board externally with those principally involved with the business.
The board has full board meetings at least seven times a year, Arrangements are made for ongoing director training.
spread across the full calendar year: in addition, there is a separate The company maintains appropriate directors and officers annual meeting to discuss the strategic plan.
The directors believe insurance cover.
that these meetings make the board well-placed to exercise adequate control over the group and to remain fully up-to-date on All directors have access to the advice and services of the the groups activities.
There is a clear distinction between the role company secretary and are able to take independent professional of the non-executive chairman in running the board, and the chief advice at the companys expense.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29 Corporate governance continued Evaluation work.
Depending on the nature of the proposed work, it is either prohibited or requires the prior approval of the committee or the During the year, the board has established and implemented finance director, as appropriate.
The committee meets not less than suitable procedures for evaluating and appraising each of its twice a year, and will meet the auditors at least once a year without members annually.
Separately from the board and committee meetings, the senior independent director consults and meets the executive directors.
It may request information from any with the other directors as a group without the chairman present employee and can seek outside professional advice if it deems to review the performance of the chairman: the executive necessary.
All non-audit services with fees in excess of 100,000 directors as a group meet to review the performance of each are subject to competitive bid and approval by the committee.
of the non-executive directors: and the non-executive directors Remuneration committee meet as a group to review the performance of the executive The committee is comprised exclusively of non-executive directors.
Appropriate appraisal and feedback is then Members are: Mr D A Thorpe Chairman, Baroness Blackstone, undertaken on an individual basis.
Lord Boyce appointed 2 September 2004, Mr A F Given and The board has also reviewed its performance acting as a unit Sir Jock Slater retired 28 July 2004.
The chairman, the chief but has not yet arranged for a review to be undertaken by executive and the group HR director also attend the committee by an external body.
invitation, when appropriate, during the year.
Committee members Relations with shareholders have no personal interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters decided by the committee.
The company adopts a pro-active approach to its major institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Regular visits are made Nomination committee to institutions offices and there are frequent reciprocal visits to the Members are: Mr M Jay chairman, Baroness Blackstone, Mr D M companys premises, especially at Southampton and Portsmouth.
Barclay appointed 16 December 2004, Lord Boyce appointed Comment and opinion from shareholders and their representatives 2 September 2004, Mr P J Lester and Sir Jock Slater retired is regularly fed back to directors.
The chairman visits major 28 July 2004.
All director appointments are considered before shareholders during the year and the senior independent director is formal approval by the board and the committee aims to maintain a available to attend meetings as required.
proper balance between executive and non-executive directors: As a result of the companys evolution and as a consequence of this includes a formal annual review of board structure and various acquisitions, many private shareholders are also succession planning.
During the year, the committee has been employees: the board is committed to increasing the number of particularly involved in the search for and selection of a new employees who are also shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting chairman: at all such times, Mr M Jay has not taken part in its this year will again be held in Southampton: this is convenient for a proceedings and the process has been led by Mr A F Given or, in significant number of our employee shareholders and they are his absence abroad, by Mr D M Barclay.
The services of Spencer actively encouraged to attend.
However, all shareholders are of Stuart have been used extensively in this process.
course equally welcome since this provides an excellent opportunity to meet with the directors.
Before concluding arrangements with any preferred candidate for appointment to the board, the committee satisfies itself that their The results of the votes on all resolutions put to the AGM will be other commitments are not such that these would adversely affect published on the companys website, together with details of proxy their ability to devote adequate time to the position.
votes cast for each resolution, whether or not a poll is demanded.
The current commitments of Mr M Jeffries outside the VT Group Board committees are as chairman of Wembley National Stadium Limited and of The board has the following standing committees: each has its own Wyless Plc and as a non-executive director of fide la Rue Plc.
terms of reference which are available on the group website.
Mr Jays commitments outside the group are identified on page 26.
Audit committee The committee has also discussed succession planning in Members during the year were: Mr A F Given chairman, Mr D M some depth.
Barclay, Sir Jock Slater retired 28 July 2004 and Mr D A Thorpe.
The chairman of each committee will be available at the AGM to The finance director, internal audit manager and a representative of respond to questions about his particular committee and a the external auditors attend by invitation.
Mr Given is identified as synopsis of questions to them, together with responses, will be the non-executive director with recent relevant financial experience.
posted on the group website.
The committee has set parameters so that the independence of external auditors is not prejudiced when undertaking non audit The company secretary is secretary to each committee.
30 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued Internal controls The groups management operates a risk management process, which identifies the key risks facing each business.
The process Following the publication of guidance for directors Internal Control: is based on each business unit producing a risk register which Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull identifies the potential key risks to the individual business unit, the guidance, the board confirms that the group has established processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing impact should they occur and the action being taken to sufficiently the significant risks faced by the group.
The processes have been manage those risks.
Internal audit independently review the risk embedded into the fabric of the group and have been in place for the identification procedures and control process implemented by year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report management, and report to the Audit committee on a quarterly and financial statements and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Audit committee review the assurance procedures, processes and procedures are regularly reviewed by the board.
ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurances required by the board.
The Audit committee The board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The role of chairman presents their findings to the board on a six monthly basis management is to implement board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than Going concern eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has statements.
been established which provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across all group operations: they provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the board.
This process is facilitated by internal audit, which also provides a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal controls.
Internal audit ensure that corrective action is taken to rectify any weaknesses.
The processes used by the board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls include the following: annual budgets are prepared for each operating business and compared with monthly management reporting, which focuses on actual performance against these budgets: management reports, internal and external audit reports on the system of internal controls and any material control weaknesses that are identified: discussions with management including discussions on the actions taken on problem areas identified by board members or in the internal external audit reports: policies and procedures for such matters as delegation of authorities, capital expenditure and treasury management as well as regular updates: review of the adequacy of the level of experienced and professional staff throughout the business and the expertise of individual staff members so that they are capable of carrying out their individual delegated responsibilities: review of major tenders which are specifically approved by the board and contract performance which is regularly reviewed and compared against estimates drawn up at the time of original tender: and review of the external and internal audit work plans.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31
