Corporate Governance Statement The Combined Code directors as a group to consider the effectiveness of the Board.
The Company remains committed to the highest standards of Additionally, a one-to-one appraisal of all board members is corporate governance and manages its affairs in accordance with undertaken annually, including the chairman, whose appraisal the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined is carried out by the senior non-executive director.
The evaluation Code issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003. examines the balance of skills of the directors, the operation of During the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005, the Company the Board in practice including its corporate governance and complied with the Combined Code provisions.
This statement the operation and content of board meetings.
The findings are describes how the Company has applied the Combined Code.
used to assist the Board in its consideration of the opportunities for improvement in the performance of the Board and The Board directors generally.
The Board comprises the chairman, group chief executive, finance director, corporate services director and five non-executive During 2005, the Board also conducted an internal review of directors, all of whom are independent.
The Board meets regularly the effectiveness of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration throughout the year with ad hoc meetings as necessary.
In the year Committees incorporating a questionnaire covering such to 30 December 2005, the Board met seven times.
Meetings are matters as the role and organisation of each Committee, meeting held at the head office in Glasgow, London at the time of the arrangements, information provision and effectiveness.
Following companys annual and interim announcements and at operating completion of these questionnaires by the members of each locations.
The following table identifies the number of board and committee, the chairman met with the respective chairmen of committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance the Audit and Remuneration Committees to discuss the feedback.
The results of this evaluation were reported to the Board and, where areas for improvement had been identified, actions were agreed.
Committee Meetings Board There is an agreed procedure for directors, where appropriate, Meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination to take independent professional advice on any matter at the No.
of meetings in year 7 43 4 Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible for Sir Robert Smith 7 4 ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors have Mark Selway 7 4 direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
Alan Mitchelson 6 The company secretary is also responsible for facilitating the Christopher Clarke 7 43 induction and professional development of the board members 2 Stephen King 6 2 and information flows within the Board, its committees and 1 James Cox 32 between the non-executive directors and senior management.
Michael Dearden 74 34 There is an agreed list of matters which requires to be authorised Lord Robertson 6 3 by the Board, such as the approval of the Group strategic plan, Chris Rickard 7 Group budget and risk management strategy.
Major acquisitions Professor Ian Percy 6 4 3 and disposals, as well as major capital spend, are authorised by 1 Retired on 11 May 2005 the Board and are subsequently monitored by the Board after 2 Appointed to the Board on 3 February 2005 and to the Audit Commitee on 11 May 2005 execution.
The Board also approves the issue of full year and interim accounts.
Directors appointed to the Board other than at an Annual General All directors bring their own independent judgement to all major Meeting of the Company are required to retire at the following matters affecting the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors is Annual General Meeting when they may offer themselves for considered by the Company to be independent.
One third of the remaining members of the Board or, his presence on the Board for a period of more than nine years, where that number is not a whole number, the nearest lower the Board considers Professor Percy, who continues to be a member whole number are required to retire by rotation, subject to all of the Board and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, directors submitting themselves for re-election at least once every to be independent in character and judgement.
In line with best practice under the Combined Code, wealth of experience to the Boards deliberations and is considered any director who has held office for more than nine years is to be free from any business or other relationship that could required to submit himself for re-election.
materially interfere with his independent judgement.
On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation The views of executive directors are not limited to those on the Company and its activities.
New directors are provided operational or functional areas for which directors have prime with an appropriate induction programme and, where appropriate, responsibility.
Board and committee papers are sent to directors site visits are arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training in sufficient time before meetings and any further back-up papers is provided as necessary.
The formal process for evaluating the and information are readily available to all directors on request to performance of the Board, introduced in 2003, is undertaken the company secretary.
The chairman ensures that non-executive annually.
This process is conducted internally based on a detailed directors are properly briefed on any issue arising at board questionnaire completed by each director and individual and meetings and non-executive directors have access to the collective discussions.
The senior non-executive director, as part of chairman at any time.
this appraisal process, also meets with the other non-executive The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 23 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate.
The Principles of business conduct chairmans primary role is to ensure that the Board is effective in As an international company, the Groups approach to its task of setting and implementing the Companys direction.
The maintaining high ethical standards is critical to its business chief executive is responsible for management of the business and success.
The Groups Operating Policies, which provide guidance developing the appropriate organisational structure for a global in this area, have been communicated throughout the Group organisation.
The chief executive chairs the Group Operations through its intranet.
A copy is available from the Group Executive Committee.
These policies are reviewed on a regular basis.
The non-executive directors are independent of management.
Shareholders None of the non-executive directors has any material business The Company maintains regular dialogue with its shareholders.
or other relationship with the Company.
Each member of the The investor relations programme includes formal presentations Board has considerable experience at senior level in other of full year and interim results.
Feedback from these presentations companies, which allows for well informed and broadly based is reported to the Board, which gives investors an opportunity debate.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or group to comment on the quality of the communications they receive dominates the decision-making process.
Professor Ian Percy has in their contact with the chief executive and finance director.
been designated the senior non-executive director to whom Attendees at the results presentations include the chairman, any concerns can be conveyed.
the executive directors and the senior non-executive director.
The Company also encourages communication with private The executive directors have contracts of service with one years shareholders throughout the year and welcomes their participation notice, whilst non-executive directors are appointed on a rotational at shareholder meetings.
In addition to the chairmans statement basis for periods of up to three years.
at the Annual General Meeting, a trading update to shareholders Board committees is given and details of the Companys trading activities are on Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, display.
The board members attend the Annual General Meeting all of which have written constitutions.
The current terms of and, in particular, the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and reference are available on the Companys website.
The company Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
secretary acts as secretary to all these committees.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at The principal board committees are the Audit Committee, least 20 working days before the meeting.
In 2005, the Company the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee decided to conduct the vote at the annual general meeting by details of which are contained on pages 26 to 33. electronic poll.
The result of the votes including proxies were announced immediately after and were published on the website Other committees: after the Annual General Meeting.
This will be the manner in General Administration Committee which all future meetings will be conducted.
The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are to allot shares under the various share option schemes and other Communications matters of a routine nature.
This Committee comprises executive The Board considers that the annual report and financial statements members of the Board and meets as required.
and interim statements present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition Executive direction & control to information which any company is under a legal or regulatory The Group Operations Executive Committee is responsible for requirement to publish, the Group frequently publicises other ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively business developments through the national or specialised press or and that the operational objectives of the Group, as approved by in its own newspapers and bulletins which have wide circulation.
Its role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and company information, is regularly updated and includes the maintaining reporting systems providing clear and consistent presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of information on all aspects of business performance, managing the full year and interim results.
The website also contains an and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary online version of the notice of the Annual General Meeting, mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional the annual report and financial statements and the interim report.
coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career Internal control development planning.
It also approves major items of capital In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
The Group the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Operations Executive Committee meets each month.
Its evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group membership comprises the chief executive, finance director, companies.
This process has been in place throughout 2005 corporate services director and the four divisional managing and up until the date of this report.
In the year to 30 December 2005, the Group Operations Executive Committee met 12 times.
As part of the integration programme, Weir Gabbioneta only became fully integrated into the Risk and Control Framework and the Group system of internal control in February 2006.
24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 As part of these procedures, each Group operating company Main control procedures and business prepares a Risk and Control Framework for their The Group has identified a number of key areas which are respective businesses.
These frameworks were considered and subject to regular reporting to the Board.
These controls approved by the chief executive, the finance director and the include procedures for seeking and obtaining approval for Group Operations Executive Committee.
In addition, a Group major investments and transactions.
Risk and Control Framework was prepared, taking account of the Group-wide standards significant risks identified by the individual units together with There are, for application throughout the Group, operating other group-wide risks.
The Group Risk and Control Framework policies and a standards manual which set out policies and has been considered and adopted by the Board which is procedures with which all Group companies are required to responsible for the risk management strategy.
The manual is communicated to all Group operating internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, companies through the Group intranet.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against The managing directors are responsible for ensuring that material misstatement or loss.
each company observes and implements the policies and procedures set out in the manual which was reviewed in 2005.
In addition, each operating company is responsible for the operation of key internal controls and assesses the effectiveness Information systems of the internal control environment and procedures in their There is a comprehensive budgeting system in place with businesses.
A peer review process monitors and evaluates this an annual budget approved by the Board.
Management system of internal control.
This covers the areas of most significant information systems provide directors with relevant and timely risk to the Group and the annual review programme is developed reports that identify significant deviations from approved plans from feedback from both the external audit risk assessment planning and include regular re-forecasts for the year.
process and the internal risk assessment priorities.
The results The Groups internal control procedures described in this section of these reviews are reported to the Audit Committee which have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control and associates.
The Group has board representation on each of issues raised by the external auditors.
In 2005, an internal auditor its joint venture and associate companies where separate systems was appointed to complement the annual review programme.
of internal control have been adopted.
The Group Risk and Control Framework is part of the Group Going concern Core Process Reporting with updates to business risks reported With regard to the basis on which the accounts of the Group twice per year.
have been prepared, the directors state that, after making all At the commencement of each year, targets for improvement are due enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the set at both company and divisional level and progress monitored Group has adequate resources to continue in operational by the Group Operations Executive Committee.
Twice per year, existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, in preparing the operating companies prepare a report identifying the relative the accounts they continue to adopt the going concern basis.
probability and severity of the risks identified, the process for managing and mitigating these risks and the means by which management might be assured that the processes are effective.
The reports are reviewed by the Group Operations Executive Committee and the chief executive reports to the Board on the control issues arising from these processes and such amendments as are thought appropriate are made.
The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the year.
In addition to the Group Risk and Control Framework, other procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of internal control are as follows: Control environment There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which individual responsibilities are identified and monitored.
Businesses follow well understood procedures and are required to comply with them.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 25
