Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board f the report prepared by Ernst & Young into the Groups for satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the IFRS implementation: financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, g the fees for Ernst & Young for 2005: integrity and accountability and in accordance with such existing statutory and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable h the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as tax advisers: to the Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
i the audit strategy for 2006: and Its duties are to: j the fraud and error guidelines contained in IAS240.
consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the auditors and the level of audit fee: As part of the review of the internal audit findings, during 2005 the Committee appointed  to provide discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit: an internal audit function on a global basis.
Following the review the draft interim and annual financial statements before appointment in November 2005 of a Group internal audit submission to the Board for approval: manager,  continue to work in conjunction with the internal audit function.
discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise: Both the Group internal audit manager and  undertake their activities in conjunction with the Groups usual discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial peer group review process.
controls and any auditors recommendations for improvement: The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of consider the findings of internal investigations and the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment which managements response: is subject to review at least every five years and on their ongoing oversee the implementation of systems for financial control and work to ensure that the independence of the Groups auditors is risk management: not threatened, particularly by the provision of non-audit services.
Prior approval of the Committee is required where the expected pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor: cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed external review the internal audit programme and its implementation: auditors is in excess of 75,000. receive and review internal audit reports: The day-to-day implementation of the Committees policy is delegated to the Group finance director who in turn monitors the review treasury policy.
business units to ensure that all engagements fall within the The chairman of the Committee is Stephen King who, having Committees guidelines.
During 2005, fees payable to Ernst & been appointed to the Committee on 11 May 2005, took over as Young in respect of taxation advice of 0.5m and audit and Committee chairman from Professor Ian Percy on 11 October assurance services of 1.0m were approved by the Committee.
The other members of the Committee are Christopher The Group maintains a whistle blowing policy in line with the Clarke and Michael Dearden.
The secretary to the Committee Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, on a is Alan Mitchelson.
The Board is satisfied that Stephen King has confidential basis, to raise concerns internally in cases where they recent and relevant financial experience.
believe they have discovered malpractice or impropriety.
This is The Committee has the ability to call on the Groups staff to reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Complaints can be made either assist in their work and also has access to independent advice.
to line managers or directly to the company secretary who will The chairman of the Committee receives additional remuneration appoint an investigating officer.
Action will be taken in cases for his duties, details of which are set out on page 31.
The where the complaint is shown to be justified and at all times the Committee meets each February, March and August and at other complainant is informed of progress and outcomes.
In addition, times as appropriate.
During the March meeting the Committee the auditors Ernst & Young can be brought in to review procedures undertakes a full review of the audit with the Groups auditors.
The whistle blowing policy is published on the Group intranet.
There were four meetings in 2005.
In the course of 2005, the Committee discussed the following matters: The Committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary on request and can also be found on the a operational issues identified by the auditors in both their Companys website.
audit and interim review: b Corporate Governance reporting: c the Group Risk & Control Framework: Stephen King d the Group operating policies: Chairman of the Audit Committee e the scope of the function and the findings of the Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board.
internal audit review: 21 March 2006 26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005
