Corporate governance A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance was published The board met 13 times during the year, of which 11 were in July 2003 and applies to reporting periods starting on or after regular meetings and two were required to deal with specific 1 November 2003.
Consequently, this is the first year in which the matters.
The regular meetings lasted approximately four hours on company has reported against the new Code, although some of average.
Board meetings are planned some 12 to 18 months in the new disclosure requirements were included in last years advance and consider a mix of regular monthly reports and items report.
The company is required to disclose how it applies the requiring a high level input or decision.
Regular reports come main and supporting principles of the new Code and to confirm from the key business units Anglian Water, Morrison and AWG that it complies with the new Codes provisions.
Where it does Property, health and safety, the Group Chief Executive, the Group not comply it is required to provide an explanation.
Since Finance Director, investor relations and annual matters for publication of the new Code, the company has reviewed its example approval of accounts and dividends.
The types of corporate governance regime and implemented a number of decisions reserved to the board included approval of financial changes.
The board confirms that the company has been in statements, returns to shareholders, consideration of significant compliance with the Codes provisions throughout the year, contracts and the appointment of Directors.
Decisions delegated except as explained below.
to management included day-to-day operational matters and contracts for services below a fixed value for each business.
Directors Attendance at board meetings during the year was as follows: The board Number of The company is headed by a board of eight Directors.
The board Director boards attended Total eligible boards determines the strategic direction of the company, ensures that the necessary resources are available to meet objectives and Peter Hickson 13 13 reviews performance: consequently it is responsible for the Bill Cockburn 13 13 success of the company.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Jonson Cox 13 13 board and a scheme of delegation to executives and subsidiary Scott Longhurst 6 6 boards provide a clear framework, which enables the board to Roy Pointer 13 13 exercise leadership and manage risk.
A statement of Business Andrew Carr-Locke 11 13 Practice Standards which addresses the companys values and Frances Heaton 13 13 standards is being finalised to replace the Vision and Values Sue Lyons 11 13 statement, which has been in place since January 1998.
The Jim McKenna 11 13 board also considers compliance, corporate responsibility and Elliott Mannis 3 3 health and safety matters to ensure its obligations to shareholders Euan McEwan also served on the board until his resignation on and others are met.
There were no board meetings from 1 to 14 April Directors are required to disclose their interests and cannot vote 2004. on any matter in which they have a material interest.
This ensures A Directors and Officers insurance policy, appropriate to the that all board decisions are taken in the interests of the company.
business of the group, is maintained.
All Directors take an active role in board meetings.
This includes consideration of business reports and the examination and Chairman and Group Chief Executive challenge of significant investment and divestment proposals.
The roles of Chairman, who is responsible for running the board, The board has an Audit Committee comprised entirely of Nonand Group Chief Executive, who is responsible for running the Executive Directors, whose terms of reference include review of companys business, are separate.
Consequently no one individual the integrity of financial information, financial controls and risk has unfettered powers of decision.
Board agendas are approved management processes.
The work of the Audit Committee is by the Chairman in advance of each board meeting.
The described more fully on page 37.
The board has a Remuneration Chairman leads the process of board evaluation and ensures Committee comprised entirely of Non-Executive Directors whose there are constructive relationships between Non-Executive and terms of reference include the determination of remuneration of Executive Directors.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is The duties of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are set described more fully on page 39.
The board has a Nomination out in writing in their respective contracts.
No further division Committee, whose terms of reference include recommendations of responsibilities has been set out in writing or approved by for the appointment and removal of Directors and succession the board.
The work of the Nomination Committee is described more fully on page 35.
Board balance and independence The board is comprised of eight Directors who are the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The balance and experience of the Directors ensure that the boards decisions are not dominated by any individual or small group of individuals.
34 AWG Plc During the year the membership and chairmanship of the board Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors do not set out committees were considered and adjusted to facilitate refreshment the expected time commitment, because all the Non-Executive of committees and avoidance of reliance on any particular Directors had been appointed before this requirement was Director.
The terms of reference were also reviewed and entitle introduced.
The Non-Executive Directors have an agreed time only the committee members to attend committee meetings, commitment of 25 days a year which will be included in their although other Directors are invited to attend as appropriate.
contracts when they are next reviewed.
The board has considered the independence of the Non-Executive During the year the Nomination Committee recommended to Directors and has concluded that all of the Non-Executive the board the appointment of Scott Longhurst as Group Finance Directors are independent in character and judgement and free Director.
Following a selection process, candidates were from any business or other relationship, which could materially interviewed by members of the Nomination Committee and by interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
Frances Heaton, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The committee agreed that Scott Longhurst be recommended to the Bill Cockburn, Deputy Chairman, is the Senior Independent board for appointment and the board accepted that Director, through whom shareholders may raise any concerns recommendation.
The committee also considered and agreed which cannot be conveyed to the board through the Chairman.
the re-appointment of Frances Heaton for a second term.
The Nomination Committee has also considered how best to Appointments to the board undertake performance evaluation of Directors.
All board appointments have been subject to full board approval of candidates recommended by the Nomination Committee.
Information and professional development During the year the Terms of Reference of this committee were Each board agenda is prepared by the Company Secretary in reviewed and approved by the board and were subsequently consultation with the Executive Directors and is approved by the published on the companys website.
The agenda and supporting papers are circulated to candidates against objective criteria and takes into consideration Directors seven days in advance of the meeting.
The agendas the overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience of comprise a mix of regular reports and other matters reserved to the board.
the board, which enable it to discharge its responsibilities to the The new Terms of Reference require the committee to ensure company.
The format of papers has been, and will continue that succession planning for Directors and senior management to be, reviewed to ensure information is presented in a clear and is in place.
Over the last 18 to 24 months the company has concise fashion.
experienced considerable change at a senior level including On appointment, Directors receive induction training and further 14 new senior appointments.
Following those appointments training days on specific subjects are arranged as required.
succession planning will now be developed.
Otherwise Directors are responsible for arranging their own Membership of the Nomination Committee was reviewed during training, any costs for which are reimbursed by the company.
the year and changed on 28 July 2004.
Current members are The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board on shown in the attendance table below.
governance matters and has led the review of governance Number of Total eligible consequent to the publication of the new Combined Code.
Director committees attended committees During the year a procedure has been in place for any two Peter Hickson Chairman 3 3 Directors to seek independent professional advice.
That procedure Andrew Carr-Locke 3 3 has now been amended so that any single Director may seek such Bill Cockburn 3 3 advice.
It is believed that the amended procedure better reflects Jonson Cox appointed 28 July 2004 3 3 the Code Provision.
Sue Lyons, Jim McKenna and Frances Heaton were members of Performance evaluation the Nomination Committee until they stepped down on 28 July The board undertook its first performance evaluation in December 2004.
There were no Nomination Committee meetings from 1 2003 which identified a number of actions which have been April to 28 July 2004. implemented during the year.
For example: Half the current membership of the Nomination Committee are Project presentation papers and briefings to be prepared independent Non-Executive Directors, rather than a majority.
It is at an early stage believed that the membership, which includes the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, has the Review of committee membership necessary understanding and experience to discharge the Review of terms of reference of Audit, Remuneration responsibilities of the committee without appointing an and Nomination Committees.
In May 2004 the Chairman was appointed a Director of Marconi Corporation plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 Corporate governance continued Objectives have been set for the board and board committees Internal control against which performance will be measured.
Furthermore, a The company has been in compliance with the Turnbull provisions performance evaluation questionnaire, focused on individual regarding internal controls throughout the year.
The board is performance, has been introduced by the board for 2005 06. responsible for the system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control framework, and on-going Re-election monitoring of its effectiveness, has been in place throughout the Re-election of Directors is covered in the Directors report, year and up to the date of approval of this report.
It is executed page 33. through the Audit Committee, Internal Audit, and the Risk Monitoring Committee which together review the overall business Remuneration control framework including, but not limited to, compliance with During the year the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration the schedule of matters reserved to the board, scheme of Committee were reviewed and approved by the board and were delegation, group finance manual and other group policies and subsequently published on the companys website.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee was reviewed The group policies and standards documents provide guidance to during the year and changed on 28 July 2004.
Current members the operational businesses and functions about delegated and other Directors who served on the committee during the year authorities, independent review of transactions, the bidding are shown in the attendance table below.
The underlying controls are similar in Anglian Water, Morrison and AWG Property.
The emphasis on Number of Total eligible aspects of control varies: for example, in Anglian Water there is a Director committees attended committees higher priority on regulatory matters but there is an equal Bill Cockburn appointed as Chairman weighting in relation to health and safety.
Operating divisions 28 July 2004 4 4 provide monthly written confirmation of their compliance with Frances Heaton 4 4 financial controls, and the central finance function also provides Sue Lyons 3 4 oversight of specific financial controls.
Andrew Carr-Locke There is an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and stepped down 28 July 2004 2 2 management of significant risks faced by the company.
Within Jim McKenna stepped down defined delegated authorities, operating businesses are as Chairman and member, 28 July 2004 2 2 responsible for risk assessment and control.
Both project-based How the company has applied the main and supporting principles and business risks financial and non-financial, including those of regarding the level and make up of remuneration, procedures, a social, ethical or environmental nature are dealt with in this and any non-compliance with the provisions regarding way through the management structure.
Divisions undertake remuneration are disclosed in the remuneration report on pages financial control self-assessments which are used to direct both 39 to 44. compilation of risk registers which are considered by the Risk Monitoring Committee and internal audit planning.
Accountability and audit The operating businesses have in the year identified their key Financial reporting business risks and their relative importance in terms of both The companys financial position and prospects are presented in a financial and non-financial criteria.
Material changes in risk and number of ways during the year to ensure a balanced and control profiles are discussed at performance review meetings understandable assessment can be made by shareholders and and the Risk Monitoring Committee.
Group finance provides potential shareholders.
This includes: further independent review of projects at initiation and thereafter Annual Report and Accounts, prepared in accordance with UK through to commitment.
GAAP, which includes an operating and financial review, and The Risk Monitoring Committee, which is an Executive committee, statements on Directors responsibilities and going concern oversees risk management practice and the control response Interim Report and Accounts within the business and advises the Audit Committee of issues identified as required.
Pre-close period trading statements The Executive Directors report to the board material changes Announcements regarding developments and contract wins in the business and the market-place that affect the business that may affect the share price of the company are made as risk profile.
and when necessary The system of internal controls seeks to manage risk and can Reports to Ofwat regarding the regulated water business provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against including the Annual June Return, the Procurement Plan and misstatement or loss.
36 AWG Plc The board has taken a number of steps during the year to further Report of the Audit Committee strengthen the internal control framework.
These steps include: Audit Committee and auditors During the year the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee A review of the overall governance structure at group and were reviewed and approved by the board and were subsequently throughout the operational businesses to ensure a consistent published on the companys website.
The role and responsibilities approach and clarity of authority set out in those Terms of Reference are compliant with the Consistent application of financial control requirements provisions of the Code.
through improved transparency, accountability and the The board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee to expansion of the financial control certification process monitor and review the integrity of the financial statements, Implementing an annual statement of responsibility which is significant financial reporting judgements, internal controls and now signed off by the Chief Operating Officers and Finance risk management procedures.
The committees duties therefore Directors of each business, who have first assured themselves also include consideration of the effectiveness of the groups that the operation of their internal control framework is internal audit function, that of the external auditor and effective recommendations to the board on the external auditors remuneration.
The committee has also approved the policy on the Development of the role of the Risk Monitoring Committee to provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and oversee risk management processes including identification of the independence of the external auditor.
Relationships with the significant group-wide risks through common risk rating external auditors are dealt with largely through the Group Finance criteria, monitoring of the mitigation of those risks and Director, but the external auditors also have regular meetings with reporting to the board and Audit Committee as required.
the Chairman and direct access to the Audit Committee and Whilst no significant problems fall to be disclosed in this report, senior employees.
the general process for dealing with any failure of the internal The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors control system would be to prepare a mitigation plan, establish all of whom are considered by the board to be independent.
ownership and monitor progress against this plan by the Risk Andew Carr-Locke is considered to have recent and relevant Monitoring Committee and the Audit Committee.
financial experience as Finance Director of George Wimpey Plc.
Internal Audit Membership of the Audit Committee was reviewed during the The company has had an internal audit function in place year and changed on 28 July 2004.
Current members and other throughout the year.
It is outsourced to Ernst & Young which Directors who served on the committee during the year are gives access to a wider range of experienced auditors.
The Audit shown in the attendance table below.
Committee has various responsibilities in respect of this function Number of Total eligible including: Director committees attended committees Monitor and review of its effectiveness Frances Heaton Chairman 5 5 Andrew Carr-Locke 5 5 Consider its remit and resources Bill Cockburn 5 5 Review and assess the internal audit annual plan Jim McKenna 2 5 Sue Lyons stepped down 28 July 2004 1 1 Review internal audit reports and review and monitor managements response to any recommendations contained The Audit Committee meets at least four times each year and is therein.
The agenda for each meeting is agreed between the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit the committee and papers are circulated to members and Committee when required.
The internal audit plan, which is attendees seven days in advance of each meeting.
The function of approved annually by the Audit Committee, focuses on the core the committee is oversight, assessment and review.
It is not the financial controls and material risks faced by the business.
The duty of the committee to carry out functions that properly belong internal audit plan is supplemented by ad hoc audits at the to others, to do so could undermine the responsibility of request of the board and management.
Internal audit findings are management and auditors.
During the year the committee: reported to the Risk Monitoring Committee, the board and the Audit Committee.
Considered and recommended approval of 2003 04 final and 2004 05 interim accounts and returns to shareholders The Head of Internal Audit meets with the Audit Committee at least annually without the presence of executive management.
Reviewed the external and internal audit reports and management responses to recommendations contained therein The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in the group that have been, and continue to be, Considered significant litigation throughout the group upgraded and refreshed.
Recommended the reappointment of PwC as external auditors at the 2004 AGM Reviewed the internal control framework and its effectiveness.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 Corporate governance continued PwC, the companys external auditor, has provided non-audit Statement of Directors responsibilities services during the year.
Those services were provided in Company law requires the Directors to prepare, each financial accordance with the companys policy in relation to the provision year, financial statements which give a true and fair view of the of non-audit services by the external auditor.
That policy states state of affairs of the company and the group, and of the profit that the external auditor will not normally be used for such or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial services except where it is demonstrably in the best interests of statements, the Directors are required to: the company and the Audit Committee is required to satisfy itself Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them that any safeguards required by the Auditing Practices Boards consistently ethical guidance are implemented.
Additionally, the external auditors carefully consider each piece of work offered to ensure Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and that acceptance would not impair independence and report prudent annually on this issue to the Audit Committee.
That report for the State whether applicable accounting standards have been year under review, which was accepted by the Audit Committee, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and concluded that PwC were independent and that their objectivity explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Audit Committee also meets with the external auditors at records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the least annually without the presence of executive management.
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that The minutes of the Audit Committee are reported to the next the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 as board meeting.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Relations with shareholders and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The company, largely through the Group Chief Executive and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Group Finance Director, maintains a dialogue with institutional of the AWG Plc website.
Information published on the website shareholders throughout the year.
This includes regular is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements presentations, meetings, and press briefings to coincide with relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial particular events, for example the announcement of final and statements, which results in uncertainty regarding legal interim results and discussion of specific matters as and when requirements.
A report regarding investor relations is made by the Group Patrick Firth Finance Director to each board meeting to ensure the whole Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel board is kept informed of shareholder matters.
This report covers 1 June 2005 investor reaction to key announcements and events, a summary of analysts reports, forthcoming investor issues and meetings and share performance.
No requests have been received from major shareholders to meet the Non-Executive Directors, consequently no such meetings have occurred.
However, the company would meet any such request, should one be received.
At the AGM, a presentation of the business results is made and shareholders are invited to ask questions.
The Chairmans statement and the results of voting are published on the companys website after the meeting.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
