Corporate governance Managing responsibly nature of the contribution made by Prue, has determined that she remains independent.
Prue will be stepping down at the 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM.
What are the terms of appointment for independent non-executive directors?
Independent non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year term.
Although in certain circumstances a longer term may be deemed appropriate, the Board has agreed a guideline that they should normally be expected to serve two three-year terms.
Both Prue Leith and Lord Williamson have now served in excess of this guideline and will be stepping down at the 2005 AGM.
During the year the companys letter of appointment for non-executive directors was reviewed and updated to take Simon Barratt Company Secretary account of the new Combined Code.
Who is on the companys All new independent non-executive Board of directors?
directors will sign the new letter on The Board currently consists of the appointment.
Chairman, four executive directors and five independent non-executive directors, How is the structure and one of whom has been appointed Senior membership of the Board Independent Director.
Pro les of each determined?
director can be found on pages 34 to 35.
Ultimately the companys shareholders determine Board membership at the How did the company arrive at the AGM.
All new directors are required to conclusion that five of its directors stand for election at the AGM following are independent?
their appointment and existing directors The Combined Code lists a number of must stand for re-election at least every circumstances which might call the three years.
independence of a director into question.
The Nomination Committee is No such circumstances exist for Rod responsible for reviewing the structure Kent, Charles Gurassa, Lord Williamson and membership of the Board, making or David Turner.
However, Prue Leith has recommendations to the Board, which now served as a director of the company are subsequently considered and voted for more than nine years.
this the Board, having considered the PAGE 28 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company is proud of its commitment to high standards of corporate governance.
For the first time Whitbread is required to make a statement on its compliance with the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
In this report Company Secretary, Simon Barratt, explains the way in which the main and supporting principles of the Code are being applied on a day-to-day basis.
The Board is of the opinion that it is of Is there clarity between the roles of an appropriate size for the requirements the Chairman and Chief Executive?
Angie Risley of the business, it has the appropriate the induction of a new director There is a clear division of responsibility balance of skills, knowledge and between the Chairman and Chief Angie Risley was appointed to the experience and that it has a good Executive.
This division is in writing Board on 1 May 2004.
Angie had balance between executive and as follows: been with Whitbread since 1989 independent non-executive directors.
so, unlike a director appointed from The Chairman is responsible for: outside the company, there was no How does the Board operate and running the Board and setting its need to include any familiarisation what are its key responsibilities?
agenda including major decisions on with Whitbread in her induction.
The Board met 13 times last year.
strategy, financial transactions and As the individual responsible for Before each Board meeting directors key appointments: the induction of new directors, are given timely and appropriate the Company Secretary discussed ensuring, through the Company information, including monthly Angies requirements with her.
Secretary, that the members of the financial and trading reports.
The As a result a tailored one-on-one Board receive accurate, timely and attendance records of individual session was arranged with clear information and that there is directors can be found in the table Slaughter and May, the companys a good ow of information: on page 31: legal advisers, to cover the duties and responsibilities of a PLC director.
managing the Board to ensure all members of the Board take In addition, Angie has attended that suf cient time is allowed collective responsibility for the a training seminar on directors for the discussion of complex performance of the company and responsibilities organised by the or contentious issues: all decisions are taken objectively Institute of Directors and a strategy in the interests of the company: ensuring that the directors and finance course at Ashridge.
continually update their knowledge a schedule of matters reserved to and capabilities: the Board includes the oversight of key aspects of strategy and ensuring that the members of the management, financial reporting Board develop an understanding of and controls, the management of the views of the major investors: shareholder communication, as well the annual evaluation of the as the approval of policies and major performance of the Board and its transactions.
The schedule can be committees.
seen in full on the companys website: www.
co. uk: The Chief Executive is responsible for: the Board oversees and approves setting the strategic direction for the companys overall strategy and the company: ensures that the necessary resources overseeing the day-to-day are in place in order to meet the management of the company: companys objectives: the line management of senior the Board has responsibility for executives, including the other ensuring that the companys executive directors of Whitbread PLC obligations to its shareholders are met.
and the Company Secretary: PAGE 29 the activities of the Leadership Group directors this would typically include a How do the Board interact a group of approximately 90 of the number of visits to the companys with the companys shareholders?
companys most senior executives: brands to enable a thorough The company recognises the importance understanding of the businesses.
New of dialogue with both institutional and ensuring e ective communication directors are available to meet major private shareholders.
Institutional shareholders, fund How is the Boards managers and analysts are briefed at Do the directors have access performance evaluated?
In 2004 5 over 100 meetings were The performance of the Board, and All directors have access to independent held with institutional shareholders, individual directors contributions to the professional advice at the companys either one-to-one or as part of a larger Board, are appraised annually by the expense.
In addition, directors have grouping, both in the UK and abroad.
This year: access to the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, the Chairman asked each director to Do the directors update investor relations team and the brand complete a formal questionnaire on their knowledge and skills managing directors all play an active the Boards performance: on a regular basis?
Non-executive the Chairman met or spoke to each directors are o ered the opportunity to The Board receives a quarterly investor director on a one-to-one basis: attend the meetings and would attend relations report which includes share if required by major shareholders.
The the results of the review were price performance, movements in Senior Independent Director attended discussed by the Board and an institutional holdings and the response meetings with a range of major appropriate action plan was agreed.
by institutions to the communications shareholders to listen to their views.
In addition, a representative Last year the executive directors went of one of the companys brokers attends Recent topics of interest to investors through a formal evaluation process, a number of Board meetings each year have been the acquisition of Premier undertaken by an external organisation.
to update the Board on the latest issues.
Lodge, the business review and the The performance of the Boards return of capital to shareholders.
During the year directors attended committees was reviewed during the training courses and seminars, or Annual and interim results presentations year in line with their terms of reference.
received tailored training, on the are webcast live so that all shareholders The performance of the Chairman was following subjects: can receive the same information at evaluated during the year by Rod Kent, the same time.
The companys website International Financial Reporting the Senior Independent Director, who provides comprehensive information for Standards: discussed the Chairmans performance private shareholders and receives over operating and financial review: with each of the directors.
The results half a million hits a year.
of the review were given directly to the directors duties and liabilities: Private shareholders have the Chairman by Rod Kent.
board and committee e ectiveness: opportunity to put questions to the Board at the AGM, and at all other times How does the company ensure corporate governance: by emailing or writing to the company.
that new directors are given executive remuneration: In addition, a meeting was held with the tools to do an e ective job?
members of the UK Shareholders whistle-blowing and the audit The Company Secretary is responsible Association during the year.
committee: for ensuring that, on appointment, new directors are given a formal and health and safety: individually tailored induction.
case of newly appointed non-executive PAGE 30 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Attendance at meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 13 3 9 4 Sir John Banham 13 4 Stewart Miller 13 1 Alan Parker 13 3 David Richardson 13 2 Angie Risley 10 3 Bill Shannon 5 3 3 David Thomas 4 1 Charles Gurassa 13 9 4 Rod Kent 12 2 9 4 4 Prue Leith 10 2 8 3 David Turner 9 3 6 2 Lord Williamson 13 3 9 4 1 Since his appointment to the Nomination Committee Alan Parker attended all three meetings that have been held.
2 Angie Risley was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2004 and attended all 10 of the years remaining Board meetings.
3 Bill Shannon and David Thomas stepped down from the Board on 15 June 2004.
Five Board meetings were held up to that date.
One Nomination Committee meeting was held during the period.
4 Prue Leith missed three Board meetings due to ill health.
Any shareholder may contact the The following groups also meet: What is the companys financial Chairman, Chief Executive or, if more reporting policy?
the Main Board Committee appropriate, the Senior Independent The Board always strives to present comprises the executive directors Director to raise any issue, including a balanced and understandable together with the Company those relating to strategy and assessment of the companys position Secretary, Simon Barratt, and meets governance.
This involves formal twice a month in preparation for may raise any such issue with one or reports such as this, other price sensitive Board meetings: all of the non-executive directors of the public reports, reports to regulators and the Executive Council meets company.
The Company Secretary can any other information required by statute.
monthly to review group brand facilitate any such communication if performances.
It is attended by the requested.
Does the company maintain executive directors, the managing adequate systems of internal directors of each brand and each of Where can I nd details control?
the head of ce functional directors: of the companys compliance The Board is responsible for the groups the Growth Committee comprises the with the Combined Code systems of internal control and for Chief Executive, the Finance Director, in relation to remuneration?
These the Group Development Director, Details of how Whitbread has applied are systems designed to manage, the Company Secretary and brand the main and supporting principles of rather than eliminate, the risk of failure managing directors as appropriate the new Combined Code with regard to identify and implement growth to achieve business objectives.
They to remuneration can be found in the opportunities.
can only provide reasonable, and not remuneration report on pages 38 to absolute, assurance against material 48.
In addition, the table on page 32 How does the company seek to misstatement or loss.
contains details of the membership, ensure that its employees behave The Board has established an ongoing terms of reference and activities of the with honesty and integrity?
process for identifying, evaluating and Remuneration Committee.
The company takes the view that managing the groups signi cant risks.
corporate governance is not a matter for This process was in place throughout the What board committees the Board or its committees alone and 2004 5 financial year and up to the date does the company have?
has developed a Code of Business Ethics, of this report.
The process is regularly which is briefed annually to employees.
The table on page 32 contains reviewed by the Board and accords with This covers dealings with customers, information relating to the Audit the internal control guidance Turnbull suppliers and government of cials: Committee, the Nomination Committee for directors in the Combined Code.
safeguarding the companys assets: and the Remuneration Committee.
keeping accurate and reliable records: Key elements of the companys risk In addition to these three committees and avoiding con icts of interest.
Its management and internal control the Board has delegated authority to principal message is that all employees systems include: the General Purposes Committee to deal must observe a code of conduct based with business of a routine nature and on honesty, integrity and fair dealing.
the formulation, evaluation and with other speci c matters delegated to annual approval by the Board of In addition, the company has a formal it by the Board.
The committee is made business plans and budgets.
Under the up of at least two directors designated results are reported monthly against policy employees are able to speak to by the Board and meets as required.
budget and the previous years an independent organisation and any gures.
Key risks are identi ed and signi cant financial or control issues action plans prepared accordingly: would then be brought to the attention of the Chief Executive and Company Secretary and reported to the Audit Committee.
PAGE 31 Board committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman David Turner Sir John Banham Charles Gurassa Members of Rod Kent Charles Gurassa Rod Kent Committee Prue Leith Rod Kent Prue Leith David Turner Prue Leith David Turner Lord Williamson Alan Parker Lord Williamson David Turner Lord Williamson Summary of key The committees main focus During the year the During the year the committee issues dealt with during the year was on: committees main area of dealt with: during the year activity was Board succession.
group and brand internal the implications of the This included the selection of: controls: Pensions Act 2004: Anthony Habgood as the approval of financial the introduction of the new Chairman: statements for the full Leadership Group Incentive and half year: Christopher Rogers as the Scheme: new Finance Director.
review of the eectiveness remuneration packages for of the internal and external In proposing these newly appointed members audit functions: appointments the committee, of the Executive Council: or sub-committee, produced introduction of IFRS: remuneration of the job specications, appointed executive directors.
advisers and carried out auditors independence: interviews.
Following this process final recommendations operational audit plans were made to the Board.
In addition, the committee has given consideration to the future appointment of independent non-executive directors.
The full terms of reference of all three committees can be found on the companys website and are also available by requesting a copy in writing from the Company Secretary.
PAGE 32 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the production by each business The Board has carried out a speci c Has the company complied of an annual risks and controls assessment of the groups systems of throughout the year with the matrix, covering major risks and internal control for the purpose of this provisions of the Combined Code?
plans to mitigate those risks.
The Audit Committee has The company has complied throughout matrices are considered by the Audit assisted the Board in discharging these the year with the provisions set out in Committee: responsibilities.
Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exceptions: a a a r r re e eg g gu u ul l la a ar r r r r re e ev v vi i ie e ew w w b by y t th he e B Bo oa ar rd d o of f Do the members of the Audit changes in the major risks facing at the beginning of the financial year Committee have recent and relevant the group and development of the the executive directors contracts financial experience?
appropriate action plans: contained notice periods in excess of The Board considers that the one year.
All of the executive directors the Treasury Committee, which membership of the Audit Committee agreed to reduce the notice periods reviews treasury activities monthly.
as a whole has suf cient recent in their contracts to twelve months The committee is chaired by the and relevant financial experience to in May 2004.
The company is now Finance Director.
Treasury activities discharge its functions, but it has therefore in compliance with the are conducted in accordance with determined not to identify any single Combined Code in this regard B1.6 : detailed procedures and mandates: member as having such experience.
for the period between 1 May 2004 the consideration of risks and the Has the company formally and 15 June 2004 the balance of appropriate action plans, when reviewed its corporate governance the Board was such that more than appraising and approving all performance during the year?
half of the directors excluding the major capital and revenue projects Chairman were not independent.
A post The Company Secretary produced a This followed the appointment of completion review of each major review of the companys corporate Angie Risley as a director.
However, project is undertaken: governance procedures, which was David Thomas and Bill Shannon considered by the Board in December financial policies, controls and stepped down from the Board at the 2004.
The aim of the review was to procedures manuals, which are AGM in 2004.
Since this time more consider whether the company was in regularly reviewed and updated: than 50% of the Board excluding the compliance with the new Combined Chairman has been independent Code.
The Board agreed that the the l l li i im m mi i it t ts s s o o of f f a a au u ut t th h ho o or r ri i it t ty y y, w wh hi ic ch h a ar re e A3.2.
company was in compliance with the prescribed for employees.
Whitbreads Code at the date of the review.
It is organisational structure allows the intended that the company will be in a appropriate segregation of tasks: position to report full compliance with the Code of Business Ethics, which the Combined Code for 2005 6. is communicated annually to employees and details of which can be found on page 31: the operational audit function, which reports on the e ectiveness Simon Barratt of operational and financial controls Company Secretary across the group: 25 April 2005 the Audit Committee regularly reviews the major findings from both internal and external audit.
Further details can be found in the table on page 32.
