William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance Statement on Corporate Governance The directors are committed to high objectives and to develop robust areas of such delegated authority standards of corporate governance corporate governance and risk include the release of capital and this statement sets out how the management practices.
The Schedule of expenditure against approved Board has applied the principles set Matters Reserved to the Board and budgets: treasury activity within out in the July 2003 Financial delegated authorities are reviewed and approved limits: payroll processing: Reporting Council Combined Code on approved by the Board annually.
Matters property transactions: LBO Corporate Governance the Code and reserved to the Board include, amongst development activities: the setting of identies, and provides an explanation other matters: bet acceptance limits and routine for, any non-compliance with the transaction processing.
Setting the overall direction, longCodes provisions during the period.
term objectives and strategy of the The Board comprises individuals with Group and delegating day-to-day wide business experience gained in Compliance with the Codes management to the Chief Executive: various sectors of industry and in the provisions public sector.
They have access to all Reviewing Group performance: Throughout the period, the Company information relating to the Group, the has complied with the provisions of advice and services of the Company Reviewing the arrangements in place the Code other than provision D. 2.4 Secretary who is responsible for relating to regulatory and industry which states that a company should ensuring that Board procedures are issues: post its notice of annual general followed, and, as required, external meeting at least 20 working days prior advice at the expense of the Group.
Approving the appointment and to the meeting.
The Group expects to removal of any Board member and During the period, the Chairman met comply with this provision for its 2006 the Company Secretary: with the non executive directors meeting, however, in 2005 the posting without the executive directors being was slightly delayed due to Reviewing and approving the terms present and as part of the process to uncertainty regarding the conclusion of reference of the various board appraise the Chairmans performance of discussions with Stanley Leisure committees and receiving reports the Senior Independent Non Executive relating to the purchase of its retail from committee chairmen on a Director met with Mr Allvey and Mr estate and whether the Group would regular basis: Edmonds, the other independent non be proceeding with its previously executive directors.
Approving changes to the Groups capital structure: any significant Chairman and Chief The Board acquisitions and disposals: capital investment projects and material The Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Executive contracts: Independent Non Executive Director There is a clear division of and other directors, including those responsibilities between the Chairman Approval of the Groups annual plan, considered by the Board to be and Chief Executive whereby the Annual Report and Accounts and independent, are listed on page 16.
Chairman is responsible for the Interim Statement, and setting the Details of Board and committee running of the Board, and the Chief Groups dividend policy: attendance are set out on page 28.
Executive has executive responsibility Mr Edmonds was appointed to the for the running of the business.
During Approval of the Groups charitable Board on 1 January 2005 and no 2004, the Nomination Committee and donations, and Group-wide corporate directors have resigned during the the Board approved revised role social responsibility policies: year.
Appropriate insurance cover is in descriptions for these individuals place in respect of legal action against Undertaking reviews of board, together with a written role directors.
committee and individual director description for the Senior performance at least annually: and Independent Non Executive Director The Board operates within a formal and the Nomination Committee and schedule of matters reserved to it.
Other Succession planning for senior the Board reviewed these documents powers are delegated to the various management and the Board on the during 2005 to confirm that they Board Committees and senior recommendation of the Nomination remained appropriate.
Details of the roles and Committee.
Independent Non Executive Directors responsibilities of the Board Committees main role is to satisfy the function are set out on pages 29 and 30.
Papers The authority delegated to senior outlined in the Code of being available for board and committee meetings are management provides a practical to shareholders if there are concerns circulated in advance of the relevant framework to executive management, which normal contact has failed to meeting and where a director is unable which seeks to achieve the dual resolve, to lead the process for to attend he continues to be provided objectives of maintaining effective evaluating the Chairmans with a full copy of the papers and has financial and operational controls performance and to chair the the opportunity to comment on the whilst providing sufficient exibility to Nomination Committee when it is matters to be discussed.
Examples of considering succession to the role of chairman.
No one individual has The Board considers that its primary role unfettered powers of decision-making.
is to provide leadership to the Group, to set the Groups long term strategic 27 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance 2005 Board and committee meetings Audit and Risk Corporate Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of meetings held 21 6449 2 Meetings attended Charles Scott 21 N A 4 4 N A 2 2 David Allvey 20 6 N A 4 8 2 2 2 David Edmonds 20 5 4 N A 8 2 Barry Gibson 19 6 N A49 David Harding 21 N A 4 N A N A 2 Tom Singer 20 N A N A N A N A Notes: 1.
This gure includes 11 scheduled board meetings and 10 ad hoc meetings held to consider specic issues during the year, including matters relating to the proposed return of capital exercise, the acquisition of Stanley Leisures retail estate and the Extraordinary General Meeting held in June 2005.
Non-attendance relates mainly to ad-hoc meetings called on short notice where directors were unable to attend due to conicting commitments.
The gures shown in the table include both attendance in person and by telephone.
In addition to the Board meetings referred to above, the Board held an off-site strategy day with senior managers.
Mr Scott satisfied the independence result of this appointment, a vacancy for 15 minutes prior to the meeting criteria detailed in provision A.
3.1 of arose for a Group Finance Director and and during the meeting.
the Code on his appointment as Simon Lane will be joining the Board Chairman and details of his other on 20 March 2006.
Information and significant commitments are set out professional development The Nomination Committee and the on page 16.
He stepped down as a The Board receives detailed reports Board will continue to monitor the director of TBI PLC in early 2005. from executive management on the Board balance and skills at least performance of the Group at monthly annually.
Board balance, board meetings and other information independence and During the period, the Board as necessary and senior management comprised three independent non regularly make presentations to the appointments executive directors out of a total of six Board on their areas of responsibility.
During the year, the Nomination directors satisfying the Code Regular updates are provided on Committee and the Board reviewed requirements that at least half the relevant legal, corporate governance the structure, size and composition of Board, excluding the Chairman, should and financial reporting developments the Board together with an evaluation comprise non executive directors and directors are encouraged to of the Boards balance of skills, determined by the Board to be attend external seminars on areas of knowledge and experience : the independent.
In early 2005, membership of the various board the Board approved an information committees and the expected time Appointments to the Board are the and professional development policy commitment and policy for multiple responsibility of the full Board, on the for directors.
board appointments for executive and recommendation of the Nomination non executive directors.
On joining the Board, non A formal induction programme has executive directors receive a formal been developed by the Company The directors aim is to ensure that the appointment letter, which identies Secretary and approved by the balance of the Board reects the the time commitment expected of Chairman.
This was discussed with Mr changing needs of the Groups them.
A potential director candidate is Edmonds following his appointment business.
An additional independent required to disclose all significant and tailored as appropriate.
A range of non executive director, David outside commitments prior to both general and Company-specic Edmonds, was appointed on 1 January appointment and the Board has information was provided in hard copy 2005 to strengthen the independent approved a policy requiring disclosure and this was supplemented by a series element on the Board and to add and approval by the Board of all of meetings with senior management additional regulatory experience.
In additional appointments for executive and external advisers.
Induction 2005, the Board also identied the or non executive directors.
The terms programmes are in place for need for the appointment of a Chief and conditions of appointment of non appointment to the Board, the Audit Operating officer to lead the executive directors and service and Risk Management Committee and programme for integration of Stanley contracts of executive directors are the Remuneration Committee and a Retail and Mr Singer was promoted to available to shareholders for specic induction pack for Corporate this role in the middle of the year inspection at the Groups registered Responsibility Committee members is assuming operational responsibility for ofce during normal business hours being developed.
the Retail and Interactive businesses and at the Annual General Meeting and information technology.
As a 28 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance All directors have access to the advice Meeting.
As referred to above, those a monthly report from Citigroup on and services of the Company directors who held ofce during the issues relating to recent share price Secretary.
The removal and period have been subject to formal performance, trading activity and appointment of the Company performance evaluation and the Board institutional investor sentiment.
The Secretary is a matter reserved for believes that their performance Board also receives copies of relevant Board approval.
The Board also obtains continues to be effective and to analysts reports on an ad hoc basis.
advice from professional advisers as demonstrate commitment to their The Board regards the Annual General and when required.
Their re-election is also Meeting as an important opportunity consistent with the Boards evaluation to communicate directly with all of the size, structure and composition Performance evaluation shareholders.
Board members, of the Board.
A process of performance evaluation including the chairmen of the of the Board, its committees and Remuneration, Nomination, Audit and Remuneration directors is undertaken on an annual Risk Management and Corporate basis and the process undertaken for The Directors Remuneration Report is Responsibility Committees, attended 2005 involved the following: set out on pages 19 to 26. the 2005 meeting and intend to attend the forthcoming meeting and The four Board committees Relations with shareholders will be available to answer questions.
conducted a review of their terms of The Board remains committed to In order that shareholders are aware of reference and considered a detailed maintaining good relationships with the other shareholders voting questionnaire to assess committee both institutional and private intentions, the details of proxy votes performance: shareholders.
There continues to be a for the meetings held in 2005 were regular dialogue with institutional announced at the relevant general One-to-one meetings were held shareholders, although care is meeting and were made available on between the Chairman and each exercised to ensure that any pricethe Groups website following the director to assess individual director sensitive information is released at the meeting.
The website also contains performance and to allow any other same time to all shareholders, in copies of the Notices of Meeting and issues to be raised: and accordance with the requirements of explanatory notes.
A separate the UK Listing Authority.
Slide The performance evaluation process resolution was proposed on each concluded with an assessment by the presentations provided to institutional substantially separate issue.
It is shareholders and analysts following Board of its own performance, intended to continue with these feedback to the Board from the the publication of the Groups practices for 2006 and future preliminary and interim results are chairman of each committee and the shareholder meetings.
It is planned to Board, and approval of action to made available on the Groups investor post the Notice of the 2006 Annual relations website, address issues raised.
General Meeting to shareholders with www.
co. uk, and a the Annual Report and Accounts at The Senior Independent Non recording of the results presentations least twenty working days prior to the Executive Director led the process for can be accessed via telephone for a date of the meeting.
the evaluation of the Chairmans period following the meeting.
performance involving discussions Board Committees The Chairman is available to discuss with each other director, a meeting The Remuneration Committee, the with the other independent non strategy and governance issues with Nomination Committee, the Audit and shareholders and Mr Gibson, as the executive directors and feedback to Risk Management Committee and the the Chairman.
Senior Independent Non Executive Corporate Responsibility Committee Director, is available to shareholders if are standing committees of the Board.
they have concerns that have not, or Re-election cannot, be addressed through the All directors are subject to election at The terms of reference of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Group the first Annual General Meeting Committees, including their objectives Finance Director.
A number of following their appointment by the and the authority delegated to them meetings between the Chairman, Board.
The Companys Articles of by the Board, are available upon Chief Executive and or the Company Association state that each year one request or via the Groups investor Secretary and shareholders have been third of directors should retire by relations website, held to discuss governance and rotation but that if a director has at the www.
co. uk and are corporate responsibility issues start of the Annual General Meeting reviewed at least annually by the generally.
been a director for more than three relevant committee and the Board.
All years since his last re-appointment, he committees have access to The Group obtains feedback from its shall retire.
In practice, this means that independent expert advice.
broker, Citigroup, on the views of every director stands for re-election at Appointments to Board committees institutional investors on a nonleast once every three years.
are for three year terms extendable by attributed basis and the Chief no more than two additional threeExecutive and Group Finance Director The Board explains the reasons why it year terms.
communicate the issues and concerns believes each director should be of major shareholders to the Board.
As elected or re-elected in the Notice of a matter of routine, the Board receives Meeting for the next Annual General 29 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Statement on Corporate Governance Established procedures, including facing the business, the assessment of Audit and Risk Management those already described, which are in the likelihood of the risks crystallising Committee place to manage perceived risks: and their potential materiality, and the The role and operation of the Audit Groups response to each risk.
and Risk Management Committee is Regular reports by management to Responsibility for management of the set out in its report on pages 32 and the Audit and Risk Management risks is attributed typically to senior 33.
Committee on the adequacy and management.
effectiveness of internal control systems and significant control issues: The Board uses the control and risk Nomination Committee management processes to identify and The role and operation of the The continuous Group-wide process manage any significant risks arising Nomination Committee is set out in its for formally identifying, evaluating from social, environmental and ethical report on page 31. and managing the significant risks to issues.
Further details of the Groups the achievement of the Groups corporate responsibility practices are Remuneration Committee objectives: and described on pages 34 to 39.
The role and operation of the Reports to the Audit and Risk Remuneration Committee is set out in Internal Audit Management Committee on the the Directors Remuneration Report on The Internal Audit department reviews results of internal audit reviews and pages 19 to 26. the extent to which systems of internal work undertaken by other control are effective: are adequate to departments.
Corporate Responsibility manage the Groups significant risks: Committee safeguard the Groups assets: and in The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than conjunction with the Company In the early part of 2005, the Board Secretary and General Counsel, ensure established a Corporate Responsibility eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can only compliance with legal and regulatory Committee.
Details of its membership requirements.
It provides independent and areas of key focus are set out in provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and objective assurance on risks and the Corporate Responsibility controls to the Board and senior Statement on pages 34 to 39. or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board management.
considers the materiality of financial and Internal control Internal Audits work is focused on non-financial risks and the relationship The Board has overall responsibility for areas of greatest risk to the Group, as between the cost of, and benefit from, the Groups internal control systems determined by a structured risk internal control systems.
and for monitoring their effectiveness.
assessment process involving Executive directors and senior The Board regularly reviews the actual executive directors and senior management are responsible for the management.
The output from this and forecast performance of the implementation and maintenance of business compared with the annual process is summarised in an annual the internal control systems, which are audit plan, which is approved by the plan, as well as other key performance subject to periodic review that is indicators.
Audit and Risk Management documented.
The Head of Internal Audit department maintains a database Lines of responsibility and delegated reports regularly to the Group Finance recording the system of internal authorities are clearly dened.
The Director and the Audit and Risk controls in every division and Groups policies and procedures are Management Committee.
regularly updated and distributed throughout the Group.
The Audit and The role of the Internal Audit The Board monitors the ongoing department and the scope of its work Risk Management Committee receives process by which critical risks to the reports on a regular basis on continue to evolve to take account of business are identied, evaluated and changes within the business and compliance with the Groups policies managed.
This process is consistent and procedures.
with both the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, and the revised No significant failings or weaknesses Going concern guidance issued by the Financial were identied as a result of the The directors have prepared the Reporting Council in October 2005, review of the effectiveness of the financial statements on a going and has been in place for the period Groups system of internal control.
concern basis consistent with their under review and up to the date of view, formed after making appropriate approval of the Annual Report and Assessment of risk enquiries, that the Group is Accounts.
A corporate risk matrix has been operationally and nancially robust.
developed and has been updated by Each year the Board assesses the Internal Audit and senior management effectiveness of the Groups system of during the period.
The matrix is internal controls including financial, approved annually by the Audit and operational and compliance controls Risk Management Committee and the and risk management systems on the Board.
The matrix records the key risks basis of: 30
