William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee The Committee has access to the Membership, meetings and remuneration services of the Internal Audit and Set out below is the current membership of the Audit and Risk Management Company Secretarial departments Committee together with the year in which membership commenced.
During the and is authorised to obtain period, all the members of the Committee were independent non executive independent professional advice if it directors, Charles Scott having retired from the Committee with effect from considers it necessary.
Main activities during 2005 Director Year of appointment Appointment retirement The Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the period by David Allvey, Chairman 2002 performing the following activities.
David Edmonds 2005 Appointed 1 January 2005 Barry Gibson 2002 Financial statements Charles Scott 2002 Retired 1 January 2005 During the period, the Committee reviewed and discussed the financial disclosures made in the preliminary The Company Secretary acts as statements, its accounting policies results announcement, Annual Report secretary to the Committee.
Other and to monitor the integrity of the and Accounts, Interim Statement and individuals attend at the request of financial statements and the other trading statements made by the Committee Chairman and during announcements relating to financial the Group together with any related the period the external auditors, Chief performance: management letters, letters of Executive, Group Finance Director, Review the major risks affecting the representation and reports from the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Group and assist the Board with external auditors.
significant financial Financial Controller would usually reviewing the effectiveness of the reporting issues and judgments were attend meetings to report to the controls operating over the Groups considered together with any Committee and provide clarification financial and non-financial risks: significant accounting policies and and explanations where appropriate.
The Corporate Finance Manager, Head Review the nature and scope of the of Compliance and Head of Security work to be performed by the Internal control and risk management have attended meetings as requested.
external and internal auditors, the The Committee also meets with the The Committee has reviewed the results of that work and external auditors without executive Groups internal control and risk managements response, and their management present on a regular management systems and has effectiveness: basis.
The Committee met on six received reports from a number of occasions during the period and departments, and, where appropriate, Oversee the relationship with the details of attendance at Committee presentations from senior external auditors including making meetings is set out on page 28. management, on the major risks recommendations to the Board faced by the Group and the regarding their appointment or Mr Allvey has recent and relevant procedures established to identify, removal and developing a policy financial experience.
He is a chartered assess, manage, monitor and report regarding the provision of non-audit accountant, a former Group Finance on these risks.
The Committee has services to the Group: Director of Barclays PLC and BAT reviewed and approved the Industries PLC and a former member statements on internal controls on Meet with the executive directors of the UK Accounting Standards page 30. and management, as well as privately Board.
Mr Edmonds and Mr Gibson with both the external and internal are both nancially literate and have External auditors auditors: and significant general business The Committee has responsibility for experience of executive roles in both Report to shareholders annually on overseeing the relationship with the private and public organisations and its role and responsibilities.
external auditors and approves the details of each directors significant external auditors engagement letter, current and prior appointments are The Chairman of the Audit and Risk audit fee and audit and client services set out on page 16.
Management Committee reports to plan including the planned levels of the Board on the outcome of materiality.
Role of the Audit and Risk attend each Committee meeting and at least annually meet with the Management Committee A formalised whistle-blowing policy Committee without executive A full copy of the terms of reference and procedure for staff to raise issues management.
The Chairman of the for the Committee can be obtained via regarding possible improprieties in Committee also meets privately with the website www.
co. uk financial reporting or other matters the external auditors.
Letters of or by request to the Company has been established and was representation are reviewed prior to Secretary.
The Committees principal reviewed during the year.
It is the signature by executive management.
responsibilities are to: responsibility of the Committee to monitor its effectiveness and any During the period, the Committee Review and advise the Board on the notications made.
received regular reports from the Groups interim and annual financial 32 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee external auditors including a formal Internal Audit The implementation of the Groups written report dealing with the audit retail technology programme: The Committee approves the annual objectives: the auditors qualications, audit plan for the Internal Audit Updates on the Groups business expertise and resources: effectiveness department and monitors progress continuity plans and their testing: of the audit process: procedures and against the plan during the period.
policies for maintaining Audit reports are circulated to the Compliance with various corporate independence: and compliance with Committee members after each audit governance issues: and the ethical standards issued by the and the Committee monitors progress Auditing Practices Board.
The external against actions identied in these A review of its own performance and auditors management letter is reports and the external auditors its remit.
reviewed, as is managements management letter.
The Regular updates are provided to the Committee monitors the ethical The Internal Audit department acts Committee on developments in guidance regarding rotation of audit under agreed terms of reference and financial reporting and risk partners and a change in audit the Committee has established a management and related legal and partner was made during 2004 when number of procedures to monitor and corporate governance matters.
the audit partner was rotated off the review the Internal Audit audit in accordance with the latest departments effectiveness using guidance.
The new audit partner was guidance from a self-assessment appointed following interviews with questionnaire prepared by Internal the Committee Chairman and the Audit, feedback from senior Group Finance Director and management and a review of the subsequent approval by the Institute of Internal Auditors Committee.
Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
The Committee During the period, the Committee also assesses annually the resources reviewed the Groups written policy the department has to complete its regarding the employment by the remit.
The Internal Audit department Group of former employees of the has unrestricted access to all Group external auditors and the policy on documentation, premises, functions non-audit services provided by the and employees as required to enable external auditors.
The Committee it to perform its functions.
The approves any non-audit work to be appointment and removal of the undertaken by the external auditors Head of Internal Audit is the involving fees in excess of 25,000. responsibility of the Committee.
The Where no Committee meeting is Head of Internal Audit has direct scheduled within an appropriate time access to the Board and Committee frame, approval is sought from the Chairmen and is accountable to the Committee Chairman and Committee.
The Head of Internal subsequently ratied at the next Audit meets regularly with the meeting.
All non-audit services Committee Chairman without provided by the external auditors are executive management being present.
reported to the Committee at its next scheduled meeting.
The external During the period, the Chairman of the auditors are excluded from Committee was actively involved in the performing any day-to-day recruitment of a replacement Head of accountancy work for the Group.
Regular updates on this policy also sets out the criteria to be process were provided to the followed when considering whether Committee and the Chairman was external auditors should be engaged authorised to approve the appointment to undertake non-audit services with of an appropriate candidate on behalf of the aim of safeguarding the external the Committee.
Other activities During the period other significant The Committee is satisfied with the activities addressed by the performance of the external auditors Committee were as follows: during the year, and the policies and procedures in place to maintain their Commenting on the Turnbull Review objectivity and independence, and Groups review of the Turnbull has recommended that they be reGuidance on Internal Control: appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards: 33
