William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Nomination Committee William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee Membership and meetings Set out below is the current membership of the Nomination Committee together with the year in which membership commenced.
No changes have been made to Committee membership during the period under review.
The majority of members of the Committee are independent non executive directors and the Committee is chaired by the Board Chairman.
Director Year of appointment Charles Scott, Chairman 2002 David Allvey 2002 Barry Gibson 2002 The Company Secretary, or one of the Management Committee prior to him Committee members, acts as being offered the role.
During 2005, the Committee also: The Committee meets as necessary Reviewed its previous but at least three times a year usually recommendations regarding the before or after regular meetings of time commitment required of non the Board and met formally on four executive directors and the policy on occasions during 2005 and details of multiple board appointments for attendance at Committee meetings is executive and non executive set out on page 28. directors: Role of the Nomination Reviewed the role descriptions for Committee the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Non Executive A full copy of the terms of reference Director: for the Committee can be obtained via the website www.
co. uk Made recommendations to the Board or by request to the Company regarding directors whose terms of Secretary and its principal function is ofce were due to expire: to carry out a formal selection process for executive and non executive Approved the directors who would directors and subsequently to propose offer themselves for re-election at to the Board any new appointments.
the 2005 AGM in accordance with the articles of association: The Nomination Committee oversees succession planning for directors and Received presentations on the senior managers below Board level.
performance management framework and the management The Chairman of the Nomination development programmes which Committee reports to the Board on apply to senior and middle the outcome of meetings.
management: and Main activities during 2005 Reviewed the Groups succession During the period, the Committee planning for its top 50 managers made recommendations to the Board including executive directors.
regarding its size, structure and Board The Committee undertook a review of and committee composition and, along with the Chief Executive, led its own performance and terms of reference during the period and the the process for the recruitment of a Group Finance Director following Committee Chairman reported to the Board on the outcome of the review.
Mr Singers move to the role of Chief Operating officer.
A formal recruitment process was undertaken involving the production of a detailed role description and use of external search consultants.
Mr Lane met with the Chairman, executive directors and Chairman of the Audit and Risk 31
