WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 48 48 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance Including the report of the audit committee Compliance with the Combined Code and the Non Executive Directors, the Chairmans performance by the The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance Non Executive Directors and Mr Banks, and the Non Executive Directors set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance published by the performance by Mr Banks and the Chairman.
The evaluation of the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code for financial periods personal performance of the Executive Directors was also supported by beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board is accountable to the a 360 degree appraisal process which included a peer group review where Companys shareholders for good governance and this report describes performance was assessed against set criteria, including the skills brought how the Board applied the principles of good governance set out in the to the Board and the contributions each Executive Director made to it.
Code during the year under review.
Meetings between the Non Executive Directors, both with and without The Board the presence of the Chairman and Mr Banks, are scheduled in the Boards As at 31 July 2005, the Board of Directors was made up of 11 members annual timetable.
The Board has also arranged to hold two Board comprising the Chairman, five Executive Directors and five Non Executive meetings each year at divisional locations to help all Board members Directors.
The Non Executive Directors are considered by the Board to gain a deeper understanding of the business.
be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors are Board considers that each of the Non Executive Directors brings his own encouraged to take up an external non executive position on a nonsenior level of experience, gained in their own fields of mainly international competitor board, for which they may retain payments received in respect operations.
Jacques Descours left the Board on 7 October 2004 and of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments Grard Legtmann left the Board on 24 January 2005.
Robert Marchbank are subject to the Boards approval.
Generally outside appointments for was appointed to the Board with effect from 24 January 2005.
Biographical Executive Directors are limited to one company board only, although Mr details of the Directors currently in office are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Banks, by exception, serves on two outside boards.
The Board is satisfied The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the that these appointments do not conflict with his duties to the Company.
remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive Directors is The Board monitors the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that detailed in the remuneration report on pages 54 to 61. the effectiveness of the Board is not compromised.
Succession planning is considered to be a matter for the whole Board rather than for a The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, committee.
During the year, the Board considered succession issues as required by time critical business needs.
The Board has a formal arising out of Mr Hornsbys appointment as Chief Executive Officer of schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision, which was reviewed Wolseley North America, which became effective on 1 August 2005 and during the year, although its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial established a working party, which met on a number of occasions during leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as the year, to consider the issues arising out of Mr Banks prospective a whole.
Day-to-day operational decisions are delegated to the executive retirement as Group Chief Executive.
As announced on 26 September 2005, committee referred to on page 51.
The Board met eight times during the Mr Banks will retire on 31 July 2006 and will be succeeded by Mr Hornsby.
year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on The Board will announce a successor to Mr Hornsby as Chief Executive page 50.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed Officer of Wolseley North America in due course.
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third of the that every Director has to the Company Secretary, who is charged with Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director will seek ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
Additionally, governance and compliance is implemented within the Group.
Board new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity papers and other information are delivered at times to allow Directors to be after their appointment.
It is Board policy that Non Executive Directors are properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Companys normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed Articles of Association, Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company and extended for a further three-year period.
It is also Board policy that to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of Non Executive Directors should not generally serve on the Board for more their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that than nine years and that, in cases where it is proposed to exceed this a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company period, the Director concerned will retire annually and offer himself for has also arranged appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action re-election.
Following their appointment, formal comprehensive and against its Directors and officers.
The differing roles of Chairman and Group tailored induction is offered to all Non Executive Directors, supplemented Chief Executive are acknowledged and set out in writing.
The Chairman by visits to key locations within the Group and meetings with members has confirmed that he would not chair any other major companys Board.
of the executive committee and other key senior executives.
All of the Directors being proposed for re-election have been subject to a The Chairman has addressed the developmental needs of the Board as performance evaluation during the year ended 31 July 2005. a whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness as a team and assists in the development of individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
During Although the Non Executive Directors are not asked, at present, to meet the year, the Board continued its ongoing evaluation processes to assess the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of its performance and that of its committees and to identify areas in which the annual results is encouraged.
The Chairman ensures that the Board its effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced, utilising both maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
Gareth Davis is the a questionnaire and discussion with Board members.
Companys Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
Performance evaluations have been carried out for each member of The formal terms of reference for the main Board committees, approved the Board.
Executive Directors performance has been assessed by by the Board and complying with the Code to assist in the discharge the Chairman and Mr Banks, Mr Banks performance by the Chairman of its duties, are available from the Company Secretary and can also WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 49 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 49 be found on the Companys website at www.
Membership The Chairman of the audit committee attends the Annual General Meeting of the various committees is shown on page 98.
The Company Secretary to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the acts as secretary to all Board committees.
The remuneration of the members of the committee is set out on page 55 and the policy with regard to the remuneration of Nominations committee Non Executive Directors is set out on page 61.
The nominations committee meets on an as needed basis and is comprised of Mr Whybrow Chairman, Mr Banks, Mr Davis, Mr Duff and The committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil their responsibilities Mr Walker.
Mr Whybrow would not chair the committee when it considers related to external financial reporting and associated announcements.
the appointment of a successor chairman.
The committee reviews the During the year, the committee reviewed the interim and annual financial structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and statements, the restatement of the interim statement under International makes recommendations with regard to any changes that are considered Financial Reporting Standards for the six months to 31 January 2005 necessary, both in the identification and nomination of new Directors and the interim and preliminary announcements made to the London and the continuation of existing Directors in office.
The committee retains and New York Stock Exchanges and the Form 20-F, which is filed with external search consultants as appropriate.
The committee also advises the Securities and Exchange Commission in the USA, having received the the Board on succession planning for executive board appointments appropriate information on the accounting principles, policies and practices although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The adopted in the preparation of the accounts: changes proposed to those committee met twice during the year and director attendance for each principles: policies and practices: significant accounting issues: litigation meeting is shown in the table on page 50. and contingent liabilities and tax matters, including contingencies against tax liabilities together with compliance with statutory tax obligations.
Audit committee The audit committee comprises Messrs Davis, Stein and Murray who The committee is also responsible for the development, implementation chairs the committee.
The committees membership is reviewed by the and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit.
The committee nominations committee and by Mr Murray at regular intervals.
Members of reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity the committee are appointed by the Board following recommendations by and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
The committee the nominations committee.
The committee is normally comprised of three recommends the appointment and reappointment of the Companys independent Non Executive Directors.
The committee reviews the scope, results including schedules of unadjusted errors and representation letters and cost Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience from effectiveness of the audit as well as the auditors remuneration and senior executive levels.
The expertise and experience of the members of performance.
The committee also ensures that key partners within the the committee are summarised on pages 38 and 39.
The Board considers external auditors are rotated from time to time in accordance with both that each member of the committee is independent within the definition UK and US rules.
It also monitors the extent of non-audit work which the set out in the Code.
Mr Stein is considered to have significant, recent and external auditors can perform, to ensure that the provision of those nonrelevant financial experience, as he is currently Finance Director of GKN plc.
audit services that can be undertaken by the external auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not impair their objectivity or independence.
All members of the committee receive appropriate induction, which is in Under the policy, the external auditors cannot be engaged to perform any addition to the induction which all new Directors receive and includes an of the following services: overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks.
Audit committee Bookkeeping services related to accounting records or financial members are expected to have an understanding of the following areas: statements: the principles of, contents of, and developments in, financial reporting, Financial information systems design and implementation: including the applicable accounting standards and statements of Appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and contributions recommended practice: key aspects of the Companys approach, including in kind reports: corporate policies: Company financing: systems of internal control: matters Actuarial services: that require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts and key Internal audit outsourcing services: figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
Members of Management functions including human resources: the committee undertake ongoing training as required.
Broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: and Legal and other services unrelated to the audit.
The committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The agenda is mostly The policy requires pre-confirmation by the committee of any non-audit work cyclical such that the committee Chairman approves the agenda on behalf subject to fide minimis levels.
The external auditors provide audit related of all members of the committee: each member of the committee may services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
relating to shareholder or other circulars.
The external auditors report to Members attendance at the meetings held during the year is set out the committee any material departures from Group accounting policies in the table on page 50. and procedures that they identify during the course of their audit work.
Within the constraints of applicable US and UK rules, the external auditors The committee invites the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax matters given Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Head of their in-depth knowledge of the Groups business.
The provision of nonInternal Audit together with senior representatives of the external auditors audit services within such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed to attend each meeting although it reserves part of each meeting for on a case-by-case basis so that the best-placed adviser is retained.
discussions without the invitees being present.
Other senior management During the year the committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external are invited to present such reports as are required for the committee to auditors and considered whether the agreed plan had been fulfilled and discharge its duties.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 50 50 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The committee also considered The Companys whistleblowing policy which is an extension of the the external auditors robustness and the degree to which the external Groupwide Code of Ethics sets out arrangements for the Company auditors were able to assess key accounting and audit judgements and Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, the context of the management letter.
internal controls, auditing issues and related matters which would, as appropriate, be reported to the committee.
A copy of the Code of The committee reviews annually a formal letter provided by the external Ethics is available on the Companys website at www.
auditors confirming their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
Each year the committee critically reviews its own performance and terms of reference and considers where improvements can be made.
The committee also reviewed the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter: the Remuneration committee overall work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the associated fee The committee comprises Messrs Davis, Duff and Walker who chairs proposal: any major issues which arose during the course of the audit and the committee, all of whom are independent within the definition set out their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level of errors in the Code.
The committee met six times during the year and Director identified during the audit: the recommendations made to management attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on page 50.
The by the auditors and managements response.
committee is responsible for making recommendations on remuneration to the Board.
The Boards remuneration report is set out on pages 54 to 61.
The total fees paid to  LLP in the year ended During the year the committee reviewed its terms of reference, which 31 July 2005 were 7.2 million 2004: 5.6 million of which 4.7 million had been approved in July 2004.
It was agreed that no amendments 2004: 3.5 million related to non-audit work.
Copies of these terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary or on the Companys website at www.
The committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit The Chairman of the remuneration committee attends the Annual General function and its relationship with the external auditors, including internal Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised audit plans and performance.
Throughout the year, the committee reviewed on the committees activities.
On 26 September 2005, the Company the internal audit functions plans and its achievements against plans.
The announced that Mr Duff will succeed Mr Walker as Chairman of the committee considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal committee with effect from 1 November 2005.
Mr Walker will remain audit function and considered the adequacy of managements response a member of the committee.
to matters raised, including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
The committee reviewed the internal audit functions effectiveness, oversaw Meetings attendance the continued development of the function during the year and considered The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the the need to continue to outsource to KPMG LLP some elements of Board, audit, remuneration and nominations committees during the year: internal audits work to provide support as the function further develops.
Audit Remuneration Nominations The committee has also monitored the policy which it approved on the Board committee committee committee recruitment of staff from both the external auditors and from KPMG LLP.
meetings meetings meetings meetings Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend The committee also reviews, where practicable, all proposed C A Banks 8 8 1 2 announcements to be made by the Company to the extent that they contain material financial information.
It also reviews disclosures made by the G Davis 8855662 2 Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director during the certification A J Duff 8 8 6 6 2 2 process for the Form 20-F concerning the design and operation of internal F N Hord 8 8 controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud involving management or other employees involved in the Groups financial controls.
C S Hornsby 8 8 The committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups 1 R H Marchbank 3 3 internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, risk management J I K Murray 8 8 5 5 procedures and compliance controls as well as the Companys statements on internal controls before they are agreed by the Board for each years N M Stein 7855 annual report.
The committee has also monitored the Companys response R M Walker 7 8 6 6 2 2 to the requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act as they apply to foreign private issuers with particular focus on the progress made in evaluating S P Webster 8 8 internal controls as required by Section 404 of that Act.
The Board J W Whybrow 8 8 2 2 retains overall responsibility for internal control and the identification Chairman and management of business risk.
During the year, the committee also This table shows only those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
reviewed the progress of the Groups preparation for reporting under the 1.
Appointed as a Director on 24 January 2005. new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the processes which are being embedded throughout the Group to implement them.
Treasury committee The committee also reviewed the impact of adopting IFRS on the opening The committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Treasurer balance sheet at 1 August 2004 and was satisfied that suitable policies and the Group Finance Director, who acts as its Chairman.
Its role is to were being applied and were appropriate.
The committee also approved consider treasury policy, tax matters and certain transactions on behalf the publication on 18 July 2005 of the restatement of the Groups interim of the Group within a framework delegated by the Board.
results for the six months to 31 January 2005 as prepared under IFRS.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 51 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 51 Executive committee Control structures The Executive Directors of the Company together with Mr Barden, Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of who has been responsible for Wolseley UK Limited since 1 August 2003, internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated meet at least eight times each year, often on the day before formal Board responsibility for the internal control and risk management programme to meetings.
The committee addresses operational business issues and the Group Finance Director.
The detailed review of internal control and risk shares best practice, thereby allowing the Directors more time at Board management has been delegated to the audit committee.
The management meetings to focus on strategy.
of each Group company is responsible for internal control and risk management within its own business, and for ensuring compliance with Internal audit the Groups policies and procedures.
Each Group company has appointed The discrete internal audit function, which was established within the a risk director whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure compliance Group during 2003, continued to expand its scope of work and to recruit by local management with the Groups risk management and internal further members during the year.
The Head of Internal Audit is based at control programme.
Both the internal and external auditors have reviewed the Companys head office in Theale.
The internal audit function is involved the overall approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management in the assessment of the quality of risk management and internal control activities so as to reinforce these internal control requirements.
and helps to promote effective risk management within the businesses.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist Control processes expertise continue to be outsourced by the Head of Internal Audit to The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual basis, KPMG LLP as required.
The audit committee reviews internal audit reports and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light of these.
and considers the effectiveness of the function.
Control is exercised at both Group and subsidiary Board level through monthly monitoring of performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts Internal control and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group companies by the Group In a highly decentralised Group, where local management has considerable Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Group companies approve autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a well designed system of and submit risk reports to the audit committee, summarising the key risks internal control is necessary to safeguard shareholders investment and the facing their businesses and the controls in place to manage those risks.
The Directors acknowledge that they have overall These reports, together with reports on internal control and departures, responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing if any, from established Group procedures prepared by the external their effectiveness.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the audit Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, committee.
Group companies submit annual risk and internal control an ongoing process had been established for identifying, managing and representation letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place and risk management issues, with comments on the control environment for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements within their operations.
The Group Finance Director summarises these were approved.
submissions for the audit committee and the Chairman of the audit committee reports to the Board on any matters which have arisen from The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the committees review of the way in which the risk management and failure to achieve the Groups objectives, safeguard the Groups assets internal control processes have been applied.
against material loss, fairly report the Groups performance and position and to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval of investment practice including that related to social, environmental and ethical matters.
and acquisition projects, with designated levels of authority, supported by The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and major misstatement or loss.
Such systems are regularly reviewed by the Board capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental and ethical to deal with changing circumstances.
A summary of the key financial matters in relation to the Groups businesses and assesses these when risks inherent in the Groups business is given on pages 33 to 36. reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious of the Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual effect such matters may have on the short and long-term value of the planning cycle.
Each business documents the strategic objectives and Company.
The external auditors of the Company and the Head of Internal the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
As part of Audit attend audit committee meetings and receive its papers.
The report this review, each business area and function has been required to identify of the audit committee is set out on pages 49 to 50 and the audit and document each significant risk, together with the mitigating actions committee members regularly meet the external auditors without the implemented to manage, monitor and report to management on the presence of executive management.
Senior managers are also required to sign bi-annual confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report As noted on page 46, the Company has entered into a level II American any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of New York and has results have been presented to senior management and to the audit securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission committee.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups the Commission.
The Company is required to comply with applicable system of internal control for the year under review.
A summary of the US regulations including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, insofar as it applies principal control structures and processes in place across the Group is to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with the Commissions set out below.
recommendations, the Company has established a disclosure committee comprising the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Group Company Secretary and Counsel.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 52 52 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will also provide There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has been the certificates required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act when the Form 20-F extended to include private shareholders through the Annual General for 2005 is filed.
During the year work necessary to achieve compliance Meeting and meetings with shareholder representatives.
Contact is also with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to internal maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall controls has continued and the Board is confident of meeting the remuneration plans and policies.
The Groups preliminary and interim revised deadline imposed by the Commission.
results, as well as all announcements issued to the London and New York Stock Exchanges, are published on the Companys website, Compliance statement www.
The Company issues regular trading updates to the The Company applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of the Code market and these, together with copies of presentations to analysts and for the period under review and has, throughout the year, complied with interviews with the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, the detailed provisions set out therein, save that, following the introduction are also posted on the website.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting of a new Directors bonus scheme in 2000, the pensionable salary of one is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such Executive Director includes his bonus capped at a fixed amount.
It is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required to General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to put questions to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance the Board and it is standard practice to have the chairmen of the audit, with the nine provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing nominations and remuneration committees available to answer questions.
Rules and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, has been made.
are counted before the Annual General Meeting and the results will be made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on each New York Stock Exchange resolution on a show of hands.
The results will also be announced to Corporate governance requirements the London and New York Stock Exchanges and are published on the Whilst the Company is not required to comply with the measures set by Companys website shortly after the meeting.
the board of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. to strengthen corporate accountability as it is a private foreign issuer, it does comply in all material Donations respects with those standards.
Those standards state that companies The Companys Corporate Social Responsibility Report is set out on should have a nominating corporate governance committee composed pages 40 to 45.
The Groups charitable donations in 2005 totalled entirely of independent Directors with written terms of reference, which 2,020,711 2004: 3,839,000, which includes donations of more than develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance 200,000 made on behalf of the Group as a specific response to the principles for the Company.
Details of the Companys nominations Tsunami earthquake disaster.
committee are set out on page 49.
The nominations committee does not develop corporate governance principles for the Board to approve.
At each of the Annual General Meetings held in 2002, 2003 and 2004, The Board itself approves the Groups overall system of internal controls, shareholders passed a resolution, on a precautionary basis, to approve governance and authority limits.
A majority of the members of the donations to EU political organisations and EU political expenditure as nominations committee are independent Non Executive Directors and all such terms are defined in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 as such Directors sit on the Board.
The Companys practice, in accordance amended not exceeding 125,000 per annum.
The Board has repeatedly with the UK Companies Act and Code in relation to the appointment and confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to termination of the external auditors, is that a recommendation is made by any political party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has the audit committee to the Board, which will then make a recommendation no intention of changing that policy.
The Directors, however, propose to to shareholders in general meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the seek once more, authority for the Group to make donations and incur USA, where the external auditors are accountable to the audit committee, expenditure of not more than 125,000 in total until the Companys next which has the authority to appoint or dismiss the external auditors without Annual General Meeting, which they might be prohibited from making reference to shareholders.
or incurring under the terms of the Act and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
The authority sought by Communications with shareholders Resolution 13 in the Notice of Meeting will last until the Companys The Company places considerable importance on communication with next Annual General Meeting.
its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are closely involved in investor Awards under employee share schemes relations and a senior executive has day-to-day responsibility for such Options were granted under the Employee Share Purchase Plan in matters.
The views of our major shareholders are reported to the Board April 2005 to 9,036 US-based employees 2004: 6,944 and 941 by the Group Finance Director and by the Chairman and discussed at its Canadian-based employees 2004: 953 in respect of a maximum of meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all shareholders 2,780,555 ordinary shares 2004: 2,986,840 exercisable at 935.85 pence either in paper form or electronically and can be accessed via the per share.
Options were granted under the UK Employees Savings Related Companys website or via Shareview, an Internet service offered by Share Option Scheme in June 2005 to 2,246 employees 2004: 2,448 the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, detailed on page 99. in respect of a maximum of 582,757 ordinary shares 2004: 738,662 exercisable at 881 pence per share.
Options were granted under the Irish WO40004 Wolseley R&A 46-66. qxd 6 10 05 11:47 pm Page 53 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 53 Sharesave Scheme in June 2005 to 145 employees 2004: 101 in respect Shareholder services of a maximum of 70,878 ordinary shares 2004: 43,875 exercisable at Shareview is a service offered by our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, 881 pence per share.
In November 2004 options were granted under which allows shareholders on-line access to a range of shareholder the Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 over 4,081,340 ordinary shares information.
Shareview provides access to details of shareholdings 2004: 3,570,423 to senior employees of the Group at an option price in the Company and practical help on transferring shares or updating of 949 pence per share.
A further award of 50,000 options was granted personal details.
It also allows shareholders to choose to receive shareholder under the 2003 Plan in March 2005 at an option price of 1100 pence per communications electronically, rather than by post.
These schemes are described in more detail on pages 56 to 59. simply need to log on to www.
co. uk with their shareholder Details of the total options outstanding at 31 July 2005 are set out in reference number, which is shown on the form of proxy sent to all note 20 to the financial statements.
Details of the cash awards under the shareholders with this report.
First time users will need to enter certain 2001 Long Term Performance Related Incentive Scheme for Mr Banks information and choose a Personal Identification Number before they are and the cash and share awards under the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term able to access their shareholding details.
Incentive Scheme are set out on page 56.
Shareview dealing is also available to UK-based shareholders.
This is Employee policies and involvement a simple and convenient telephone and Internet share purchase and sale The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its service offered by the Registrars.
For telephone purchases and sales employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins, call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
such as Directions and other in-house publications, meetings and the For Internet purchases and sales, log on to www.
Companys internal website, on matters affecting them as employees and A postal dealing service is also available from Lloyds TSB Registrars and on the issues affecting their performance.
A European Works Council has a form, together with terms and conditions, can be obtained by calling been operating since 1996 to provide a forum for dialogue and consultation 0870 242 4244. with employees on significant developments in the Groups operations, managements plans and expectations, organisational changes within the CREST Group and for employee representatives to consult management about The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for concerns over any aspect of the Groups operations.
At the date of this stocks and shares.
report, there are 25 members comprising 14 employee representatives nominated from among employees from each European company.
Auditors Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Companys  LLP are willing to continue as auditors of pension arrangements including the defined benefit pension scheme, the Company and Resolution 8 in the Notice of Meeting concerning their which has one corporate and two individual trustees.
The Chairman of the re-appointment and Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting, concerning trustees is David Tucker and, save for an independent trustee, all of the the determination of their remuneration are to be proposed at the other trustees are UK-based employees or former employees of the Group.
Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered membership of their employing companies pension arrangements.
Employees are offered Annual General Meeting resolutions a range of benefits depending on the local environment, such as private The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held medical cover.
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in on 17 November 2005, together with explanatory notes, appear in the the Company, where possible, through participation in the Companys separate Notice of Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all share schemes.
Priority is given to the training of employees, and the registered shareholders and which is also available on our website at development of their skills is of prime importance.
people is considered on merit with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the function required.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the function required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
The Group continues to operate on a highly decentralised basis.
On behalf of the Board This provides the maximum encouragement for the development of Mark J White entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised Group Company Secretary and Counsel by a small head office team.
Local managements are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety and for ensuring that Wolseley plc, Registered No.
29846 there is appropriate employee involvement in decision-making.
Theale, Reading 26 September 2005 Creditor payment policy All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and conditions of trading with their suppliers.
It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made within agreed terms and are where applicable, consistent with the UK Government-backed Better Payment Practice Code.
Copies of this Code can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
At 31 July 2005 the Company had no trade creditors 2004: nil.
The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2005 was equivalent to 55 days 2004: 52 days of trade purchases.
