Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Combined Code Statement The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of Corporate Governance.
During the financial year, the Group has complied with the main and supporting principles of the 2003 Financial Reporting Committee FRC Combined Code.
Compliance with the principles of good governance and the specic provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code has been effected by the Company in the following way: The Board of Directors The Board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and three Non-Executive Directors, appointed for periods of three years.
The Board is satisfied that, having considered the background and current circumstances of each of the Non-Executive Directors, there are no relationships or other matters which could affect their respective judgement in carrying out their duties.
Accordingly, the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management.
Their biographies appear on page 14 and illustrate the Directors range of backgrounds which provides an experienced and balanced Board to lead and control the Group.
Andrew Beeson is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
The Non-Executive Directors have disclosed to the Chairman and the Company Secretary their significant commitments other than their directorship of the Company.
Similarly, the Chairman has discussed with the Board the time commitment expected from his various roles outside the Group.
For both the Chairman and the Non-Executives, it has been agreed that all are able to meet their respective obligations to the Company, provided that any proposed changes or additional commitments are notied to the Board.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Each Director may also receive appropriate training as necessary and a record of training undertaken is maintained by the Company Secretary.
The Board meets not less than 11 times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The Board receives detailed proposal papers in advance of meetings, together with management presentations to facilitate proper consideration and debate of matters brought before it.
The Board is primarily responsible for the strategic direction of the Group.
Major strategic initiatives involving significant cost or perceived risk are only undertaken following their full evaluation by the Board.
Matters of an operational nature are delegated to the Groups management.
Progress on key initiatives is reported regularly and minuted, together with routine matters such as financial performance and current trading in each of the Groups business divisions.
In accordance with Combined Code principles, the Board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance both as a board and on an individual basis including the performance of the Chairman, and that of its core standing Committees.
The evaluation was performed and administered by an external consultant together with the Company Secretary and consisted of formal interviews and completion of a detailed questionnaire followed by group and individual feedback.
In addition, where appropriate, the views of management and the Internal Audit function were also sought.
The focus of the evaluation was to assess the performance of the Directors in leading the Group toward its strategic and financial objectives, the respective skills and competencies of each of the Directors and to formulate areas of potential development to further enhance the Boards ability to both challenge and support the Group.
The conclusions of this years assessment were considered by the Board and a number of recommendations have been put in place at Board and Committee level to ensure continued operational effectiveness.
During the year 11 Board meetings were held.
The Directors attended as follows: Board of Directors Attendance Andrew Beeson 10 Trevor Bish-Jones 11 Gerald Corbett 11 Roger Jones 11 Prue Leith OBE 9 Christopher Rogers 10 In addition, three further Board meetings were convened during the year to deal with corporate transactions and the exercise of share options previously sanctioned by the Board.
The Board has established three core standing committees, with dened terms of reference, as follows: The Audit Committee Chaired by Roger Jones, the Committee comprises the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
This Committee is responsible for providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group, for ensuring that the subsidiary companies are subject to an internal audit of the required quality and for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of auditors and the audit fee.
It also reviews the performance of the Groups auditors to ensure an independent, objective, professional and cost-effective relationship is maintained.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
As well as reviewing the Companys published financial results, the Committee reviews the Groups corporate governance processes including risk analysis, accounting policies and procedures, reporting to the Board on any control issues identied.
Internal audit plans and the relationship between the internal audit function and the external auditors are routinely assessed at Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee has also sponsored the development of arrangements throughout the Group to deal, in confidence, with complaints from colleagues about any accounting or financial management impropriety or other questionable business practice or conduct.
These arrangements are periodically reviewed.
To ensure the independence of the Groups auditors, the Committee has reviewed the relevant policies and practices of the external auditor.
The rotation of key partners at appropriate intervals and monitoring the extent of non-audit work and related fees are established principles which are implemented as necessary and regularly reviewed by the Committee to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
17 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued The Audit Committee continued Each of the Non-Executive Directors has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
Andrew Beeson a non-executive director of Schroders plc and former chairman of Evolution Group plc, a leading Corporate Finance and Stockbroking business has significant, recent and relevant experience of financial and accounting issues.
The Committee is also responsible for the proper reporting of the financial performance of the Group and for reviewing financial statements before publication.
The meetings of the Audit Committee are also the forum used by the Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present to discuss the performance of the Group, its management and their ongoing stewardship of shareholders interests.
The Non-Executive Directors and the auditors have the opportunity at this time to raise and discuss any issues of concern in this regard.
During the year three Audit Committee meetings were held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Audit Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 2 Roger Jones 3 Prue Leith OBE 2 The Nominations Committee Comprising the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Gerald Corbett succeeding Prue Leith OBE, and is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the composition, balance and expertise of the Board and for reviewing and recommending appointments to the Board.
Prospective appointments are considered by the Committee which agrees a detailed job description and the capabilities required for the role.
The Committee generally engages external consultants to administer the search process, prepare a shortlist of potentially suitable candidates and to advise generally on prospective appointees.
Only after a rigorous interview process is any appointment recommended to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Groups website.
The meetings of the Nominations Committee are also the forum used by the Chairman to meet with the Non-Executive Directors without the executives present to discuss any concerns about the running of the Company.
During the year five Nominations Committee meetings were held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Nominations Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 3 Gerald Corbett 5 Roger Jones 5 Prue Leith OBE 5 The Remuneration Committee Comprising the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Andrew Beeson.
The Committees aim is to ensure that the Executive Directors are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and motivated to enhance the return to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for the Groups policy on the grant of share incentives to Executive Directors and other senior management as well as the specic remuneration and benets packages for Executive Directors.
During the year three Remuneration Committee meetings were held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Remuneration Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 3 Roger Jones 3 Prue Leith OBE 3 The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Further details can be found on page 13 and in the 2005 CSR report available on the Groups website www.
Accountability and Audit Going Concern A statement in accordance with the going concern principle is included in the Financial Review on page 12.
Relations with Shareholders and Bondholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with its investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
This is a key component of its corporate communications programme and is headed by the Finance Director.
The Chairman and Chief Executive also attend the majority of these shareholder meetings.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations in the UK and overseas where appropriate on full-year and interim results.
One-to-one meetings between institutional investors and senior management are also held regularly.
Feedback from these meetings including the non-attributed views of major institutional shareholders is reported back to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys stakeholders, including private investors.
Communication with investors also takes place through the Annual and Interim Reports and via the Group website www.
In addition, the Annual General Meeting provides an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders.
18 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward prole, and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related controls.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The key procedures in place to enable this responsibility to be discharged are: The Board of Directors has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks that are designed to facilitate the operation of effective internal control and which include the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
These are periodically reviewed and updated: regularly reviews the Groups strategy and the strategies of the subsidiary companies: reviews and assesses the Groups key risks at least annually: reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: has well dened policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from the Audit Committee and the Internal and External Audit functions.
Each Operating Company Board maintains systems for the continuous identication and evaluation of significant risks resulting from their strategies and their areas of the business: self certies that it is clearly accountable for establishing and monitoring internal controls within its business, that processes are in place to provide reasonable assurance that material business risks are identied and managed appropriately, that internal controls have been effected and that they comply with the Groups policies: and reports on any control weaknesses or breakdown considered as material to the Group: reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the system of internal control through reports from the Group Internal and External Audit functions.
The Internal Audit Function is responsible for providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group and for ensuring that the subsidiary companies are subject to internal audit of the required quality.
These processes and organisational procedures enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
19 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
