How were doing communications initiatives.
For example, in Asia we worked closely with the Coalition for a Healthy Indonesia Ogilvy Public Relations and Johns Hopkins University to reduce infant mortality.
Worldwide We helped FM Global, the worlds largest commercial and industrial property insurer, achieve a 20% increase in new business activity across Europe.
In the US, we were recognized for our collaboration with the Hudson Highland Group, a leading executive search and stafng SM firm, on the Hudson Employment Index, now a  monthly economic barometer.
And, once again, we led the charge in educating women about heart disease with the Heart Truth campaign for the National Heart Lung Blood Institute.
Though these are just a few examples of the work we did throughout 2005, they are a true testament to our stable roster of senior leaders, which includes a mix of old and new blood, and our highly skilled account teams.
One respondent to our 2005 client survey said, You are the best of the best.
Keep up your hiring practices, because the talent you have employed in all areas is awesome.
To that end, we rounded out our senior leadership team by hiring Luca Penati, to head the global technology practice and Orlando Camargo, as president of Japan.
As the account teams focused on delivering superior client service, our leadership set their sights on building business.
By leveraging our solid base of strong legacy talent with strategic new hires, we won an array of new business opportunities around the world.
Our global client list now includes Band-Aids, Sams Club, Quintiles Transnational, Mercury Interactive, Nestl, Sony BMG, Ford and Goodyear, to name a few.
In addition to significant new business wins, we expanded our relationships with several global and multinational clients.
For example, in the global consumer marketing practice our relationship with Unilever grew.
We now support seven of Unilevers brands globally,.
including Slim Fast, Lipton, Ponds, Dove, Comfort, Promise and Hellmanns.
Corporate clients Invest in France Marcia Silverman and FM Global also tapped our worldwide network to Chief executive officer manage their global communications.
Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide We continued to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace by partnering with sister agencies Ogilvy ward-winning work, solid senior Advertising, OgilvyOne, and Ogilvy Interactive to bring leadership, new business wins, expanded 360 Degree Brand Stewardship to life for our clients.
global client relationships, 360 Degree Through these strategic partnerships we developed and Brand Stewardship, thought leadership delivered transformative communications programs to and growth organic and through American Chemistry Council, DuPont and Unilever, among acquisitions best describe 2005 at Ogilvy many others.
Public Relations Worldwide Ogilvy PR.
In 2005, Ogilvy PR was active on the thought The Ogilvy PR network continued to experience leadership front as clients and industry inuencers looked success worldwide throughout 2005 as we drove some of to our senior leaders for their expertise on some of the the years innovative, creative and award-winning global years hottest topics.
For instance, Christopher Graves, Annual Report 2005 58 How were doing How were doing regional CEO of Asia Pacic, kicked off one of the earliest in-depth looks at corporate blogging and podcasting with a well-received global white paper.
And, senior advisor James McGregor examined Chinas business landscape in his bestselling book One Billion Customers: Lessons from the Front Lines of Doing Business in China.
The Ogilvy PR footprint was expanded in 2005 with the acquisitions of iPR, the financial communications rm responsible for 40% of the IPOs on the Hong Kong stock exchange last year alone, and The Federalist Group.
The Federalist Group is a premier Washington DC-based public affairs rm that specializes in government relations and has earned an unsurpassed reputation for successful legislative and regulatory advocacy.
Our global growth and client achievements in 2005 are a direct result of the strength, hard work, dedication and determination of our world-class global senior leadership.
If the first few months of 2006 are any indication, collectively they will continue to push the agency forward.
From the launch of our interactive offering, 360 Degree Digital Inuence, to our focus on providing enhanced financial communications programming to corporate clients, Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide is well positioned for another solid and successful year.
Marcia Silverman Annual Report 2005 How were doing 59
