How were doing Public relations & public affairs including acquisitions.
The revenue growth combined with disciplined management enabled public relations & public affairs to increase its margin by a full point for the second Public relations & public affairs consecutive year.
This improved financial performance was only achieved by making progress toward qualitative goals set out in last years Report.
Specically, we continue to do well in the competition for the best professional talent in public relations & public affairs.
This requires that we compensate our people fairly.
But winning the talent war requires more than appropriate compensation, it also requires giving people a clear career path, investing in training, supporting innovative thinking and providing a positive work environment.
Our public relations & public affairs agencies understand this, and work at it all the time.
Another goal on which the agencies are focused is the need to adapt their offerings to changing client needs, be it new services, new geographies, or new media.
In a dynamic economy, the proposition for clients must also be dynamic, reecting marketplace demands.
One example of expanding the offer in 2005 was Burson-Marstellers acquisition of Genesis, a leading public relations rm in India.
Another example can be found in Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwides Ogilvy PR acquisition of the Washington public affairs rm, the Federalist Group, even as Ogilvy PR strengthened its ties with Ogilvy & Mather, furthering Ogilvys 360 Degree proposition for clients.
Highlights of 2005 include a powerful new marketing alliance forged by Cohn & Wolfe with Ford, WPPs largest client.
Cohn & Wolfe sustained its strong topand bottom-line growth for the third year in a row.
Other top performers among full service agencies were Ogilvy PR and Hill & Knowlton, the latter sustaining the positive momentum evident at the end of 2004.
BursonMarsteller managed well through a CEO transition, and by year-end Mark Penn, founding partner of WPP agency Penn, Schoen & Berland PSB, was named Bursons new Howard Paster CEO.
PSB, now a Burson agency, had an outstanding year.
Executive vice-president The UK financial markets were busy in 2005, and WPP Public relations & public affairs a steady diet of IPOs and M&A activity enabled Buchanan and Finsbury, respectively, to again deliver very good Overview results.
Also performing at a high level were the US singleoffice firms of Robinson Lerer & Montgomery, BKSH, Quinn Gillespie and Wexler & Walker.
uilding on the momentum of a successful 2004, WPPs public relations and public affairs agencies had an excellent year in 2005.
Howard Paster Especially gratifying was the contribution to the improvement from almost every agency, regardless of size or offering.
Revenue was up on a like-for-like basis by well over 7%, and up almost 19% on a constant currency basis Annual Report 2005 How were doing 55
