How we behave Directors report Once again, this year the Directors report includes reviews from the chairmen of three Board committees: Philip Lader as chairman of the Company and its Nomination committee: Paul Spencer, as chairman of the Audit committee, and Bud Morten, chairman of the Compensation committee during 2005.
It also contains an analysis of the Companys compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Review of the Companys governance and the this and the Nomination committee.
His comprehensive Nomination committee knowledge of your Companys businesses and people, as well as his responsiveness to institutional share owners and Dear share owner your representative organisations, have been an immense Continuing to emphasise excellence in corporate help to the Board and our executives over these many years.
governance while sustaining the entrepreneurship David Komansky, former chairman and chief characteristic of this Company is fundamental to its executive of Merrill Lynch, has joined the Nomination performance: that has been foremost among your Board committee, and to comply with best practices, particularly of Directors objectives this past year.
The latter is in the US Martin Sorrell has stepped down from this evidenced throughout this Report by your Companys committee so that it is now comprised entirely of nonfinancial performance, growth, and innovation.
The Nomination committee met once here focus, therefore, on the former.
formally in 2005, but held periodic informal sessions.
significant changes in your Boards composition Its meetings were also attended, in whole or in part, by have added new perspectives, further vitality, valuable the Groups Company Secretary, chief talent officer, and expertise and greater regulatory independence.
Colin Day, chief legal advisor.
Reckitt Benckisers highly respected f finance director, with The addition of Esther Dyson to the Audit committee prior experience in the media-buying industry, is now will bring further expertise to the examination of its among those who joined earlier in 2005 Lubna Olayan, complex issues.
chief executive of the Saudi Arabian-based Olayan Group, During 2005, the Board and I, as chairman Jeffrey Rosen, deputy chairman of the global investment engaged once again in a thorough assessment process, bank, Lazard, and Mark Read, WPPs director of strategy.
including detailed one-on-one discussions with each Additions in 2004 included Orit Gadiesh, chair director, followed by a full review by the Board as a of the international strategic consulting rm Bain & whole.
However well informed and engaged we might Company, and Paul Spencer, who was also formerly a be, individually and collectively, we always seek to FTSE 100 finance director.
We were pleased to note that learn and benefit from the best governance practices both Lubna and Orit, together with Shelly Lazarus, of other public companies and continually strive to Ogilvys chairman and CEO, were named in Forbes 2005 improve our own performance.
list of The 100 Most Powerful Women in Business.
Additionally, I want share owners to be aware of Sir Martin Sorrell and Lubna Olayan were also named your Boards rigorous talent management and successionin the Time 100. planning process.
Annually, and for the last three years, The composition of Board committees has been, more than 100 senior managers and rising stars of the or in the case of the chairmanship of the Compensation parent and operating companies, including the Group chief committee, will be realigned following the forthcoming executive, are reviewed by the non-executive directors.
The Compensation committee In this process individual strengths and developmental will be chaired by Jeffrey Rosen, and Esther Dyson, the needs are considered in depth, and potential successors internet authority, entrepreneur and investor, has already for senior positions are identied.
We believe that the best joined this committee.
We cannot adequately thank Bud interests of the Group require that these deliberations and Morten, after 12 years of service on this committee, all but our conclusions be kept strictly condential.
one of them as its chairman, who has stepped down from Annual Report 2005 100 How we behave How we behave Philip Lader Chairman of the Company and chairman of the Nomination committee It has always been your Companys policy to comply Your Board is composed of energetic, tough-minded, fully with all relevant laws and regulations, including the commercial professionals with wide experience and Combined Code, the US Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, the enviable records of achievement in their respective elds.
NASDAQ rules and, where possible and practicable, with They have worked hard in 2005, and have sought to guidelines issued by institutional investors and their achieve the proper balance between rendering appropriate representative bodies.
corporate governance oversight and championing the To this end, WPP executives and advisors devoted entrepreneurial spirit that has built WPP into the leading substantial time and resource throughout 2005.
In the year global enterprise that it is.
I thank them for their dedication ended 31 December 2005, in the opinion of the Board, and all their considerable efforts.
WPP has again been in compliance with provisions of the Meanwhile, this past year the Groups executives Combined Code on Corporate Governance, among other have also dealt in addition to the central client and relevant benchmarks, and continues to be so.
competitive challenges of their businesses with The Boards views on independence of nonunprecedented legislative and regulatory requirements.
executive directors were explained in detail in last years Their performance in both regards warrants both our Report and Accounts.
Let me reiterate, nonetheless, that admiration and our appreciation.
independence, in our opinion, should be determined on a No expression of appreciation could be complete case-by-case basis, with full disclosure to share owners of any without reference to another group.
Clients old and new, appearance of conict with published guidelines.
The Board large and small, all necessarily demanding make this continues to disagree with guidelines that directors who business possible.
have served for more than nine years should, for this reason And to the people of WPP who deserve credit for alone, no longer be considered as independent.
the remarkable story behind this years Report to you.
Accordingly, notwithstanding Bud Mortens 14 years of service on the Board and his advisory afliation with Philip Lader Citigroup, he will continue, following the forthcoming 11 May 2006 Annual General Meeting, as senior independent director and as a member of the Audit committee.
Similarly, although I am chairman of the Company and a senior advisor to Morgan Stanley, I intend to continue as chairman of the Nomination committee and as a member of the Compensation committee to ensure continuity in the work of those committees.
Annual Report 2005 How we behave 101
