How we behave Committee meetings Internal control The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of WPP operates a system of internal control, which is the committees of the Board during 2005 was as follows: maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as Nomination AuditCompensation Rules 13a-14 and 15 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934 committee committee committee as they currently apply to the Company.
In the opinion of Philip Lader 1 n a 9 the Board, the Company has complied throughout the year Bud Morten 189 with the Turnbull Report and has also complied with the Christopher Mackenzie 1 n a 9 relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
1 Jeffrey Rosen n a 8 n a The Board which receives advice from the Audit Paul Spencer n a 8 n a committee has overall responsibility for the system of internal Notes 1 control and risk management in the Group and has reviewed Appointed to the Audit committee 29 April 2005 but attended meetings prior to his appointment.
the effectiveness of the system during the year.
In the context During 2005, the Corporate responsibility committee, of the scope and complexity of this system, the Board can which in 2005 was chaired by Howard Paster and also only give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against comprises executives of the parent company met once on a material misstatement or loss.
Their report for 2005 commences on page 110.
The principal elements of internal control are The Disclosure committee is comprised of senior described below.
executives in the parent company, namely Group financial reporting, internal audit, legal, tax, human resource Control environment and investor relations departments.
The purpose of the The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, Disclosure committee is to add further assurance to the ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of the content of all public statements including the Annual Groups system of internal control.
Report and Accounts and, during 2005, it met four times.
The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly reviewed by the Audit committee and the Board sets out the principal obligations of all employees.
Directors and Share owner relations senior executives throughout the Group are required each year to certify their compliance with this Code.
The WPP Relations with share owners, potential share owners and Policy Book which also is regularly updated includes the investment analysts are given the highest priority by Code of Business Conduct and human resource practices the Company.
as well as guidance on practices in many operational areas.
The Company has a well-developed continuous Breaches or alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct are program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts for a regular ow of information investigated by the director of internal audit and the Group about the Company, its strategy, performance and general counsel.
Given the wide geographic Furthermore, the Group has an independently distribution of the Companys current and potential share operated helpline, Right to Speak, for the reporting of owners, this program includes regular visits to investors, issues that employees feel unable to raise locally.
A number particularly by the Group chief executive and the Group of issues have been raised during 2005 through this finance director, in the UK, Continental Europe and the helpline, all of which have been investigated.
major financial centres in North America together with more limited programs in Asia Pacic and Latin America.
The Company also provides a quarterly trading update at the end of the first and third quarters and at the Annual General Meeting AGM currently held in June each year in addition to semi-annual reporting required in the UK.
The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue with share owners and their representative bodies in relation to remuneration matters as and when appropriate.
com, provides current and historical financial information, including trading statements, news releases and presentations.
Annual Report 2005 106 How we behave
