Corporate governance report The Company is committed to the principles of good corporate The Chairman fulfilled the independence criteria as set out in the governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Combined Code on his appointment as a Director.
Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Committees of the Board The Boards Committees meet regularly to enable them to discharge This report sets out the Companys compliance with the their responsibilities.
Each Committee has Terms of Reference which are Combined Code.
reviewed annually by the Board.
Copies are available on request from the Company Secretary or on the Groups website www.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Following formal decision making the Board may, on occasion, delegate The Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 authority to a standing committee consisting of any two Directors of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2005 to facilitate final sign off for an agreed course of action within except for the period prior to the appointment of Lord Boyce and strict parameters.
Sir Peter Williams as Non-Executive Directors on 5 May 2004, when the Audit and Remuneration Committees temporarily consisted of two Group Executive Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, in light of the new composition The Group Executive is responsible for the management of the business of the Board, the Chairman has completed an interim appraisal of and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Its members currently comprise its performance pending a full review prior to the end of 2005. the Group Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the Managing Directors of the business units, the Group Human Resources Director Board and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
It meets regularly The Board of Directors is the body responsible for corporate governance, throughout the year, at least ten times.
Those members who are not for establishing policies and objectives and for the stewardship of the Directors of the Company are invited to attend certain Board meetings Groups resources.
It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman and during the year and also meet with the Non-Executive Directors from Chief Executive are separate, with their roles and responsibilities clearly time to time without the Executive Directors present.
Currently the Board is made up of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
Struan The respective roles of the Board and Group Executive are discussed Robertson is the Senior Independent Director.
The biographies of the further under Internal control on page 37.
Directors as at the date of this report are given on pages 32 and 33.
Audit Committee It is the opinion of the Board that the Non-Executive Directors are The Audit Committee comprises James Morley, Struan Robertson independent of management and have no business or other relationship and Sir Peter Williams, all independent Non-Executive Directors.
which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
James Morley, a Chartered Accountant, is Chairman of the Committee.
Sir Peter Williams was appointed as a member of the Committee on The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with further 5 May 2004.
The Board considers all members to have recent and meetings when required.
In addition, Directors meet as members of relevant financial experience.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically to the Board for decision and delegating specific The Committees central functions are to review the scope of the responsibilities to Committees.
external audit, to receive direct reports from the external and internal auditors and to review the half yearly and annual financial statements The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes strategy, before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on the approval of financial statements and shareholder circulars, treasury accounting policies and compliance, areas of management judgement policy, major capital investments, risk management strategy and and estimates, and the effectiveness of internal control procedures.
The key elements of processes used by the Audit Committee to The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet without the review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include: Executive Directors present at least once a year.
discussion with management on risk areas identified by management and or the audit process: All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company review of internal and external audit plans: Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and review of significant issues arising from internal and external applicable rules and regulations are observed.
There is an agreed audits: and procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice, review of significant Group risks reported by the Group paid for by the Group.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third The Committee is responsible for the review of the Companys written of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year.
In addition, procedures for responding to the allegations of whistleblowers.
all those appointed during the year will stand for election at the next General Meeting, ensuring that each Board Member faces re-election The Audit Committees Terms of Reference address the provisions in the at regular intervals.
Combined Code in relation to audit committees and auditors.
The Board and the Audit Committee monitor the cost effectiveness of audit and Chairman non-audit work performed by the auditors and also consider the Ed Wallis, the Chairman, normally spends two days per week on the potential impact, if any, on the corporate relationship with the auditors business of the Group.
His other significant commitments are disclosed before awarding any non-audit work.
The Board and Audit Committee in his biography on page 32.
The Board considers that these also review the independence of the external auditors.
commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the Company effectively.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 36 The external auditors continue to operate procedures to safeguard Board performance evaluation and training against the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence The Board is committed to ensuring its effectiveness and evaluating its could be compromised.
This includes the use of independent concurring performance together with that of its Directors and Committees.
In light partners, use of a technical review board where appropriate and of the new composition of the Board the Chairman has completed an annual independence confirmations by all staff.
The auditors report interim appraisal of its performance pending a full review during the to the Audit Committee on matters including independence and latter part of 2005.
This full review will build upon the formal evaluation non-audit fees on an annual basis.
In addition, the role of the audit carried out during the year ended 31 March 2004.
In addition to this partner is rotated on a periodic basis.
interim appraisal, the Audit Committee undertook a formal assessment of its performance and audit process.
The use of a detailed questionnaire Nomination Committee showed the Committee and the audit process to be effective.
The Nomination Committee comprises Ed Wallis, Lord Boyce, Keith Clarke, Christopher Kemball, James Morley, Struan Robertson and The Non-Executive Directors have met alone to appraise the Sir Peter Williams.
The Committee was chaired by Michael Jeffries until Chairmans performance.
his retirement from the Board on 1 January 2005, except where his own succession was being discussed at which time Struan Robertson chaired The Company has a continuing professional development framework the Committee as Senior Independent Director.
The Committee is now to assist the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors chaired by Ed Wallis.
Lord Boyce and Sir Peter Williams were appointed in discharging their responsibilities effectively.
Non-Executive Directors as members of the Committee on 5 May 2004.
The Committee is meet regularly with members of the Group Executive and receive regular responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
business updates via scheduled presentations.
These, coupled with site visits, ensure Non-Executive Directors gain first hand experience During the year the Nomination Committee recommended the of developments within the Group.
External training is provided appointment of the new Chairman.
Ed Wallis was appointed as a as necessary.
Non-Executive Director on 8 September 2004 and as Chairman on 1 January 2005.
The Committee used an external search consultancy Internal control to assist in making recommendations.
The Committee makes regular The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the adequacy appraisals of the processes in place for succession planning in respect and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including of both Board and senior appointments.
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is the role of management to implement the agreed policies on risk All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the time commitment and control.
considered necessary to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities prior to appointment.
The system of internal financial and operational controls is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aims to facilitate effective Remuneration Committee and efficient operations, to safeguard the Groups assets, ensure proper The Directors Remuneration Report on page 39 includes details of the accounting records are maintained and ensure that the financial Remuneration Committee and its work.
information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
The Groups risk management process identifies the key risks facing Board and Committee Attendance each business and reports to the Board on how those risks are The following table details the number of Board and Committee being managed.
meetings held during the year ended 31 March 2005 and the attendance record of each Director.
Such a system of internal control can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Board Committee meetings can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination misstatement and loss.
Number of meetings held in year 10 4 5 4 The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, 1 7 Stephen Billingham 31 n a n a evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group and that the 2 Lord Boyce 8n a 4 1 process has been in place for the year under review and remains current.
7 7 Keith Clarke 10 3 4 4 This process covers subsidiaries in which the Group has an interest of 3 7 7 Michael Jeffries 82 4 2 50% or more.
Joint Ventures in which the Group does not have overall 7 control are not treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
For Christopher Kemball 10 n a 1 4 4 7 7 7 these Joint Ventures, systems of internal control are applied as agreed Robert MacLeod 73 1 2 between the parties to the venture.
For Metronet the Board has James Morley 9 4 4 2 separately reviewed the risks faced by the Group.
Struan Robertson 10 3 5 4 5 7 7 Ed Wallis 32 2 1 6 The Audit Committee has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of Sir Peter Williams 94 n a 1 the Groups internal controls, which operated during the period covered by the Directors report and financial statements, up to and including 1 Stephen Billingham attended all but one Board meeting held prior to his resignation the date of approval by the Board.
on 24 August 2004 2 Lord Boyce attended all but one Board meeting held following his appointment on 5 May 2004 3 Michael Jeffries attended all Board meetings held prior to his retirement on 1 January 2005 4 Robert MacLeod attended all Board meetings following his appointment on 23 June 2004 5 Ed Wallis attended all but two Board meetings held following his appointment on 8 September 2004 6 Sir Peter Williams attended all Board meetings held following his appointment on 5 May 2004 7 Attendance at parts of the meeting was at the request of the committee.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 37 Corporate governance report continued Key features of the system of the Groups internal control are as follows: The Group maintains insurance policies to provide protection from losses arising through claims from clients.
The adequacy of the Groups Group organisation and culture insurance cover is reviewed by the Board annually.
By its statements and actions the Board emphasises a culture of integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility.
Internal Audit The Internal Audit function undertakes a programme to address internal The Board focuses mainly on strategic issues, senior management and control and risk management processes with particular reference to the financial performance.
The Group Executive concentrates on operational Turnbull report.
Its conclusions are communicated to the relevant level performance, operational decision making and the formulation of of management and the function has a direct reporting responsibility strategic proposals to the Board.
The Managing Directors of the business to the Audit Committee acting on behalf of the Board.
units manage their businesses with the support of senior managers.
The Board determines how the Group Executive and the individual Internal Control Metronet businesses operate within a framework of delegated authorities Metronet is the Groups most significant Joint Venture.
Given its and reserved powers which seek to ensure that certain transactions, importance to the Group, an experienced senior manager is responsible significant in terms of their size or type, are undertaken only after for representing the Groups interest as a non-executive director on the high level review.
Board of Metronet and is responsible for monitoring the progress of Metronet on behalf of the Group.
Metronet has regular meetings of Control environment its board of directors.
It also has its own Audit and Remuneration The Groups operational structure has clearly documented and Committees, at which a Group representative is also present.
communicated principles of delegation of authority and segregation of duties.
The Groups management systems include financial policies Keith Clarke was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman of the board and procedures, corporate and business quality assurance manuals, of directors of Metronet on 13 April 2005. health and safety procedures and environmental management procedures.
These procedures are subject to review to ensure that Investor relations improvements to enhance controls can be made.
The Board gives communication with all shareholders a high priority.
The Annual and Interim Reports are sent to all shareholders and all Financial reporting shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, which is attended The Board approves a business plan and annual budgets for individual by the full Board.
business units and the Group.
The financial performance of individual business units is reported regularly and compared to annual budgets.
The Groups website contains information on current activities, The Group reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
Forecasts for including recordings of the Annual and Interim results presentations the Group are updated and reviewed by the Board regularly.
to City analysts and institutional investors.
Project and contract control The Board welcomes the views of all shareholders.
The Chairman Procedures seek to ensure that risks are identified through the project maintains contact with major shareholders writing to them annually lifecycle from bidding to completion.
Regular review procedures are to set out the Companys commitment to open, ongoing dialogue.
in place to ensure that issues are appropriately reported to the Board.
Both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director will make A Commercial Risk and Audit Framework is in place which requires themselves available for the regular investor meetings held by the peer review to be carried out for all significant bids and opportunities Chief Executive and Group Finance Director if they are requested or where significant investment decisions have to be taken.
A wide range of relevant issues is discussed at investor meetings including strategy, performance, management and corporate Individual business controls governance.
Non-Executive Directors are kept informed of the views Individual businesses and central corporate functions complete an of shareholders by the Chairman and the Executive Directors provide annual self-certification statement.
Responsible managers personally reports to them on investor meetings.
The Companys brokers provide confirm the review of their systems of internal control and their briefings to the Board on shareholder opinion and compile independent compliance with Group policies.
The statement also requires the feedback from investor meetings.
reporting of any significant control issues that have emerged so that areas of Group concern may be identified, addressed and The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced and understandable experience shared.
view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans statement, and Operating and financial review on pages 12 to 31 provide an Functional speciality reporting assessment of the Groups affairs and position and will be supported The Board assesses the risks facing the business on an ongoing basis and by a presentation to be made at the AGM.
has identified a number of other key areas which are subject to regular reporting to the Board such as human resources, health and safety, Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf environment, equity investments and treasury.
Risk management review Philip Davis The Board assesses risk management throughout the Group, aided by Company Secretary the Group Risk Committee and detailed reviews of internal controls and 21 June 2005 risk management.
The Group Risk Management Framework requires businesses to record formally all significant risks facing their business and detail the steps being taken to avoid or mitigate those risks.
A summary of the key risks facing the Group is placed on risk registers which are reviewed regularly by the Board.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 38
