N I O J S R E S I T R Y E E V L L D ' A S E P R R O O M D U C T S I S N D C A R E E L A S E E R ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Our Advertisers and Users At the heart of our business is the virtuous circle.
The more businesses that advertise with us, the more value we provide to our users, who in turn use our products more.
This increased usage generates more sales leads for our advertisers, which encourages them to increase their Our advertising programmes with us and attracts more advertisers.
virtuous This proposition has allowed us to grow the number of circle advertisers across our products, as well as increasing the amount they spend with us.
com page impressions m 141 68 67 103 39 75 33 65 56 16 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 The figure for FY01 includes all advertisers 15 I O N M U T S E E G F U S L R N E E S S I T S R T E O V D T A H E U S E S R W O R G E G A ARPA ARPA S U YELL GROUP PLC... the right blend of experience Left to right: John Condron John Davis Steve Chambers Victoria Sharrar Joe Walsh John Condron, Chief Executive Officer Steve Chambers, Chief Commercial Officer, Yell UK John 55 is an executive director of Yell Group plc.
He has Steve 51 leads our UK Sales and Customer Service led the Group since 1994, building it into a leading operations, a combined total of over 2,400 people, and is international directories company.
John has continued the responsible for delivering our win, keep and grow customer growth of the company through acquisitions, launches and acquisition and development strategy.
During the year Steve rescopes and the further development of Yell.
com, as well as has overseen significant customer service improvements and championing Yell UKs success in winning the European Quality a corresponding increase in customer satisfaction.
Victoria Sharrar, Chief Sales Officer, Yellow Book John Davis, Chief Financial Officer Victoria 47 leads 3,450 sales and sales management people John 43 is an executive director of Yell Group plc.
He heads across our US sales operations.
Her focus on our win, keep and up our Financial, Investor Relations and Risk Management grow strategy has resulted in significant new directory launches teams.
In our first full year as a public company, John has and market growth activities.
She has also implemented a focused on ensuring that we deliver shareholder expectations leadership development strategy and championed our sales while continuing to invest for long term growth with an efficiency improvement programmes in the US.
He has also led the business in its Joe Walsh Chief Executive Officer, Yellow Book preparation for Sarbanes-Oxley, and the move to International Joe 42 leads our Yellow Book business and throughout the Accounting Standards.
year he has focused on the integration of Feist and the continued growth of Yellow Book through further acquisitions.
Joe works closely with Yell UK on the sharing of best practice.
16 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Left to right: Eddie Cheng Paul Fry Ann Francke Jim Haddad John Satchwell Alongside the development of our win, keep and grow Eddie Cheng, eBusiness Director and President of Yell.
com strategy, and responsibility for maintaining our Superbrand Eddie 53 has strategic and operational responsibility for our status, Ann is driving innovation and the adoption of a New Media developments including Yell.
Eddie has portfolio approach to marketing.
recently led the development and launch of Super Search and Yell.
He is now focused on further improvement of Jim Haddad, Chief Financial Officer, Yellow Book Yells search capabilities in order to ensure Yell.
com supports its Jim 48 has responsibility for all financial, treasury and human rapidly growing advertiser base.
He and his team are also resources operations in Yellow Book.
He has focused on working with Yellow Book to assist them in their creation of the upgrading the financial systems and processes with significant next generation of Yellowbook.
improvements in reporting and forecasting.
Jim has also led US Paul Fry, Strategy and Business Development Director compliance work for Sarbanes-Oxley.
Paul 54 heads up Yells strategic planning, market research John Satchwell, Operations Director and information activities.
He led our winning applications for John 50 leads Yell UKs technology development and the the European Quality Award in 1999 and 2004 and is teams responsible for order processing, printing and responsible for the development and implementation of our distribution.
He has instigated process changes and Quality and Standards programmes as well as Corporate improvements which have delivered our best ever quality results Responsibility.
John also supports Yellow Book in the Ann Francke, Chief Marketing Officer, Yell UK development of their operations activities and is champion for Ann 46 leads our UK Marketing teams in customer and our Health, Safety and Environmental activities.
product development and marketing communications.
