44 boardmembers We have the resources for us to continue as a consistently successful long-term business 1 2 3 4 1 Robert Dickinson C. B. E. D. L. Chairman, chairman of Nomination Committee Aged 71, Solicitor Appointed a director of the company in 1961, and chairman in 1992.
Chairman of AON Minet Pension Trust.
2 Rupert Dickinson M. R. I. C. S. Chief executive Aged 46, Chartered Surveyor Joined the company in 1992 from Richard Ellis now Insignia Richard Ellis.
Appointed a director of the company in 1994.
Appointed chief executive in October 2002.
Deputy chief executive and finance director Aged 49, Chartered Accountant.
Joined Deloitte Haskins and Sells in London in 1978 and worked in their Nairobi and Bristol offices before being made a partner in Newcastle in 1989.
Appointed a director of the company in December 1996.
Appointed deputy chief executive in December 2002.
Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 45 5 6 7 8 Non-executive directors 4 Stephen Dickinson F. C. A.
Deputy chairman, 7 Robin Broadhurst C. B. E. F. R. I. C. S. Senior independent member of Nomination Committee Aged 71, non-executive director, member of Nomination and Audit Chartered Accountant Committees Aged 59 In practice in British Virgin Islands 1963-1974.
Appointed a director of the company in February 2004.
Appointed managing director of the company in Previously European chairman of Jones Lang La Salle.
Upon retiring as managing director in October Trustee and director of the Grosvenor Estate, a senior 2002, became deputy chairman.
British Virgin Islands advisor to Credit Suisse First Boston, property consultant representative on United Kingdom Overseas Territories to Sir Robert McAlpine Limited, member of the Princes Association 1993-2004.
Council for the Duchy of Cornwall and director of the British Library.
Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committees Aged 62 8 Bill Tudor John M. A.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee, member of Audit Committee Aged 61 Appointed a director of the company in March 2002.
Deputy chairman of Lloyds Appointed a director of the company in February 2005.
Currently a managing director of Lehman Brothers, previously a partner at Allen & Overy LLP for 29 years, 6 John Barnsley F. C. A.
Chairman of Audit Committee, serving as senior partner for six years.
Also deputy Member of Remuneration Committee Aged 57, chairman of the Portman Building Society and Chartered Accountant.
deputy chairman of the Bank of England Financial Appointed a director of the company in February 2002.
An associate fellow of Non-executive director of Northern Investors Company Downing College, Cambridge.
plc and American Appraisal Associates LLP.
Until December 2001 was a Senior Partner at .
46 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report Grainger is, and always has been, committed to high In June each year, the board meets for two days to receive standards of corporate governance.
The board believes that presentations from senior management and discuss good corporate governance is achieved through the way strategy at length.
This ensures that non-executives fully that it acts, and does not necessarily automatically follow understand and are able to impact the strategy of the from ticking boxes.
Where the group departs from the group in bringing their respective experiences to bear.
Combined Code 2003 the Code, this has been an active There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision taken by the board that the provision is not in Boards Attention which includes: the best interests of the group.
Setting the overall strategy As required by the Listing Rules, a statement of how the Approving major transactions principles of the Code are applied is given below, along Setting debt gearing limits and associated hedging strategy with our formal compliance statement and explanations where the code has not been applied.
The main part of this Accounting policies report should be read in conjunction with the individual Other tasks which require main board director attention are statements made by the board committees which follow.
delegated to the boards committees or to the executives.
Board Conduct Committee membership and chairmanship is therefore of The board meets regularly, at least four times each year, the utmost importance to ensure each committee has the for the consideration of strategy and to monitor and necessary skills to properly discharge its duties.
evaluate the groups performance and prospects.
This Relevant financial and non-financial information is supplied brings together a wealth and depth of experience ranging to directors in a timely manner before each board committee from the cautious to the entrepreneurial, suitable to the meeting.
Any ad hoc request for information from a effective management of the group.
director is dealt with as a high priority.
The directors have The table below shows the attendance by each director direct access to the services of the company secretary, who at the board meetings held during the year.
Biographical reports to the chairman regarding matters of corporate details are given on pages 44 and 45. governance.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary is a matter for the board as a whole.
Procedures Dec Jan Feb Jun Sep also exist for directors to take independent professional Director 04 05 05 05 05 advice as required, at the groups expense.
Robert Dickinson Roles Stephen Dickinson Grainger employs a relatively small board, which consisted Rupert Dickinson at the year end of the chairman, deputy chairman, two Andrew Cunningham executives and four non-executive directors.
Each nonRobin Broadhurst executive is therefore required to participate in two committees of the board and Robin Broadhurst was Robert Hiscox appointed the senior independent director on the John Barnsley retirement of Robin Herbert in February 2005.
Bill Tudor John n a n a n a Robin Herbert n a n a Nichola Pease n a n a appointed after February 05 board meeting resigned at February 05 board meeting 47 The roles of chairman and chief executive are very distinct, Independence and a written division of their respective responsibilities The independence of the non-executive directors is the has been reviewed and approved by the board as a whole.
principal potentially contentious corporate governance In brief, the principal differentiating factors are: issue.
The board does not consider that the criteria set out in section A.
3.1 of the Combined Code should be Chairman Chief executive taken as automatic failure of a director to be independent.
Reports to the board Reports to the chairman It is their fundamental belief that directors should be Only the CEO and company All executive management assessed robustly as individuals, taking into account their secretary report to him report to him, directly own unique experiences, reputations and competencies or indirectly along with their mindfulness and willingness to contribute to decisions of the board on the basis of those.
Responsible for running Responsible for running the board the business The board itself is in the best position to assess this, given their knowledge and experience of working with the Guardian of the boards Responsible for individuals themselves as professionals.
The board has decision making implementing the therefore, after diligent and careful consideration, assessed boards decisions the independence of the non-executives as follows: Director Boards determination Explanatory notes Robert Dickinson Not independent close family ties Chairman more than nine yearsservice Stephen Dickinson Not independent close family ties Deputy Chairman more than nine years service previously managing director part-time executive responsibilities participation in all employee share schemes Robin Broadhurst Independent although previously European chairman at Jones Lang LaSalle, this firm no longer values any of Graingers properties, so there is no material business relationship under A.
3.1 regarded as independent by search consultants used for his appointment Robert Hiscox Independent although a trustee for an Estate containing a material shareholding, the board is of the opinion that this position does not interfere with or influence his character or judgement in any way.
As chairman of Hiscox plc, and past deputy chairman of Lloyds, Mr Hiscox brings extensive skills and experience in his own right, which can only be beneficial to Graingers board 48 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report continued Director continued Boards determination Explanatory notes John Barnsley Independent John Barnsley was not connected with any service provided to Grainger in the period to December 2001, whilst he was a partner at PwC, the groups current auditors.
From December 2004, the customary three-year period had in any event elapsed.
Mr Barnsley has no continuing personal interests with PwC.
Grainger was as new to Mr Barnsley as Mr Barnsley was to Grainger on appointment Bill Tudor John Independent no A.
3.1 criteria relevant appointed 24 February 2005 Robin Herbert Independent the board does not consider length of service, on its own, to affect resigned 24 February 2005 the independence of its directors.
Mr Herberts length of service was considered an asset by fellow directors as he continued to keep apace with the changes and unpredicted growth of Grainger and contribute to all debates with a fresh mind, taking each decision in turn.
resigned 24 February 2005 The board therefore concluded that it included five continuity of leadership is a real asset.
The board in fact independent non-executive directors up until 24 February considers itself fortunate to have retained the services 2005 and four thereafter, maintaining a majority of of several long-standing directors for extended periods.
independent non-executive directors through the year Along with those directors retiring by rotation, the under review.
chairman and deputy chairman will stand for re-election again this year, having passed the age of 70 and having Retirement by Rotation and Re-election been directors of the company for more than nine years.
Although board members have been required to stand Their experience of the long-term residential market is for re-election at intervals of no more than three years invaluable to the group and, whilst they are willing and for several years now, the board believes it is important able, the board considers itself fortunate to benefit from to maintain stability and continuity for longer periods.
Principally this is due to the long-term nature of the groups core businesses.
The process of purchasing land, Induction, Evaluation and Training negotiating planning and then subsequent development During the year, the induction and evaluation processes to sale can amount to many years hard work, where were both formalised and comprised the following key elements: Induction: Two manuals of information, delivered separately, containing all board standing policies and procedures, latest risk assessments, market consensus information, committee composition, glossary of industry terms etc.
Meetings with executives and senior management, where presentations were delivered to cover all business areas.
An invitation to join the next available tour of examples of the groups properties.
49 Evaluation: A questionnaire was completed by board members, whereby possible characteristics of a board were rated depending upon whether Graingers board would always, never or sometimes act in a particular way.
This part of the process resulted in an effective self-assessment of the board as a whole.
The chairman formally interviewed each director, with an agenda of items covering board, committee and individual director evaluation.
Results of the individual meetings are held only by the chairman and company secretary so that directors are encouraged to be open and free with their views.
Particular topics for discussion were tabled due to their importance to Grainger either currently or in the near future.
The non-executives, led by Robin Broadhurst the senior independent director met to evaluate the chairman.
They assessed the leadership capabilities of the chairman against commonly accepted attributes of an effective chairman, taking into account the views of the executives.
Feedback was discussed by the board as a whole.
There were no comments regarding individuals required to be made, which would have been made directly by the chairman to the individual concerned.
As a result, the board decided that its main priority should be to spend more time discussing strategy.
This was not to be to the detriment of its monitoring role, so additional informal strategy discussions have begun to take place.
Ultimately, decisions will still be made at formal board meetings.
No other significant areas for development were highlighted, although some interesting matters were raised prompting further debate.
Should the need for any further training be identified, this The annual general meeting is the primary route for would be provided to directors on appointment or thereafter.
communication with smaller private shareholders, although the groups website also includes a specific Investor The board is provided with technical updates relating to Relations section and has been significantly developed in the property industry and the listed company regime, the current year.
All directors attend the annual general as appropriate.
meeting, and the chairmen of all committees are available Relations with Shareholders and Potential Investors to answer questions.
The notice of meeting and annual The chief executive and deputy chief executive finance report and accounts are sent out at least 20 working director meet regularly with institutional shareholders and days before the meeting.
Separate votes are held for analysts.
In addition to the usual meetings after results each proposed resolution, including the approval of the announcements, ad hoc meetings are arranged to continue remuneration committee report, and a proxy count is dialogue throughout the year.
In particular, during the year given in each case after the voting on a show of hands.
under review, the groups chief executive and deputy chief At the Annual General Meeting in February 2005, Grainger executive finance director have, between them, conducted introduced a vote withheld category, in line with best over 80 meetings with shareholders, potential investors practice.
Shareholders were also able to lodge their votes and analysts.
Further, the executives, senior management through the CREST system.
and the groups broker conducted two property tours Internal Control during the year predominantly for shareholders.
Feedback The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing gathered by the groups broker and financial PR agent and managing its significant risks, which has been in place following such meetings and presentations is always for the full year under review and in the period up to the presented to the board as a whole and the board is briefed date of approval of these financial statements.
The process on the views of major shareholders.
Non-executive directors is designed to enable the board to be confident that such are available for meetings with the same, although there risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as possible.
It should have been no requests for such meetings in the year under be noted however that no system can eliminate the risk of review, or since the year end.
