Corporate governance Statement of compliance with code of best practice The Financial Services Authority requires all UK incorporated listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Company, as a Guernsey incorporated company, is not currently required to comply with the Combined Code.
The Directors believe, however that it is important for the Company, as a public company, to maintain a high standard of corporate governance, and as such, the provisions set out in the Combined Code which they consider applicable have been adopted from the date of Admission to the Official List and are summarised below.
Prior to Admission, the Mapeley Limited group of companies was not required to comply with the Combined Code and instead had developed and implemented a standard of corporate governance appropriate to its status as a wholly owned investment of a private equity real estate business.
Accordingly, the statement of compliance with the Combined Code set out below covers the period from Admission on 21 June 2005 to 31 December 2005 the period and, saves as otherwise provided, the Company has complied with the recommendations of the Combined Code in relation to the management of the company for the period.
Role of the Board A schedule of matters reserved for the Board was approved on admission of the Company to the Official List which is to be reviewed on an annual basis.
It includes those matters that are most significant to the Group, based on the nature and size of the matter, both in terms of financial impact and risk.
As part of its collective responsibility for the management of the Group, the Board must ensure that adequate resources are in place to achieve its strategic aims and that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and control of the Groups activities and good corporate governance.
The Board met seven times during the period and intends to meet at least seven times a year from 2006 onwards, objectively setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major potential acquisitions and disposals, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and its team, who are responsible to the Chairman on matters of Corporate Governance.
Board balance and independence Since Admission, the Board has comprised the Chairman plus one Executive Director and three Non-Executive Directors.
An additional Non-Executive Director joined the Board in December 2005.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive for the day-to-day management of the Company.
The Board considers that all Non-Executive Directors are independent notwithstanding their entitlements to free Ordinary Shares under their letters of appointment and Mr Fascitellis role as a former partner of Goldman Sachs, a subsidiary of which holds a notifiable interest in the Company shares.
Mr Edens, the current Chairman may not be regarded as independent since he is the Chairman of Fortress Investment Trust which has a controlling interest in the Company.
However the Board considers that the experience and independent judgement of its other Non-Executive Directors provides an appropriate and effective balance between the executive and non-executive and independent and nonindependent members.
Throughout this period and to the date of this report, more than half of the Board including the Chairman, comprised independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Edens, as well as being the Chairman of Mapeley Limited, holds numerous directorships in a professional capacity.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors bring independent views to the Board and have diverse experience in chartered surveying, accountancy, law, and finance to add to the Boards effectiveness, particularly in the areas of corporate strategy, governance and risk.
Non-Executive Directors take an active part in debate, not being afraid to challenge proposals, ensuring the robustness of Board decisions.
Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
They do not participate in the Companys bonus or pension schemes but have been awarded shares in the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years subject to renewal for further periods.
As recommended by the Code, the Non-Executive Directors aim to meet at least annually, both with and without the Chairman but have yet to do so.
Board appraisal The Board has yet to complete its first full year of operation, but intends to undertake a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors, the first such review taking place in 2006.
The performance evaluation consists of each Director completing a wide-ranging appraisal questionnaire based on the process and questions outlined in the Higgs Reports recommendations for good practice.
The Non-Executive Directors are also expected to discuss the performance of the Chairman annually, or more frequently as necessary.
Board Committees The Board has established Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Investment Committees which deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs, each of which has written terms of reference which will be regularly reviewed and which deal with their authorities and duties.
The Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee are chaired by Mr Edens.
The Board believes that the interests of the Company are better served with Mr Edens as a member of these respective Committees, notwithstanding the requirement of the Combined Code that all members should be independent.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Parkinson, who is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
38 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is appointed by the Board and chaired by Mr Edens.
Its other members are Mr Carey and Mr Parkinson.
Their experience is detailed on page 33.
Other Board members, along with other individuals, attend if invited, for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Committee aims to meet at least once a year and met once with full attendance during the period.
The Committee is responsible for: considering the size, structure and composition of the Board: considering the retirement of Directors and appointment of additional and replacement Directors: and making appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and chaired by Mr Edens.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Finance Officer and others attend by invitation.
The Committee aims to meet at least once a year and during the period met once with full attendance.
The main role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in written terms of reference, which are to be reviewed annually.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee carried out its responsibilities in accordance with the terms of reference and its activities are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 43.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no Director participated in discussions relating to his terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Audit Committee Membership The Board has an Audit Committee comprising Non-Executive Directors.
The members are appointed by the Board, and since its formation, the Committee has been chaired by Mr Parkinson.
Its other members are Mr Carey and Mr Harris and from 20 December 2005 Mr Fascitelli.
The members of the Committee have no links with the Companys external auditors and are independent of the Companys management.
The Board considers that collectively the Audit Committee has significant financial experience and the ability to discharge its duties properly, gained from managing businesses of a similar or greater size, and through extensive service on the boards and audit committees of other listed companies and at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, and where appropriate meetings coincide with key dates in the Companys financial reporting and audit cycle.
The Finance Officer and the Chief Executive Officer and others attend by invitation.
During the period, the Audit Committee met twice, with the external auditors in attendance on each occasion.
Responsibilities The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference, which are to be reviewed annually as part of the Committees evaluation process and are available from the Company on request.
The main responsibilities are: considering and making recommendations regarding the appointment and removal of the auditors: recommending the audit fee to the Board and pre-approving fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors: reviewing the nature and scope of the external audit and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity: monitoring the integrity in relation to the interim and annual financial statements and financial announcements and significant reporting judgements therein before submission to the Board: ensuring effective systems of internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management are maintained: reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgement of management in relation to the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board: and reviewing the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
The Committee plans to review the arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about matters of possible impropriety, financial reporting or other matter during 2006.
Financial reporting The Audit Committee has reviewed the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the Groups financial statements including significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates and judgements.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the clarity and completeness of disclosures in the financial statements and considered whether the disclosures made were set properly in context.
The review of the annual report included a review of the operating and financial review and corporate governance relating to audit and risk management.
Internal audit The Board assessed its requirement for an internal audit function at its date of Admission and considered there was no necessity at that time for an internal audit function, as the Group has a small management team operating from one location and the Board and senior management team exercise close control over the Groups activities.
This enables the close involvement of the Executive Director in the day-to-day operational matters of the Group.
The Audit Committee expects to review this decision during 2006.
Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 39 Corporate governance continued Auditors The Committees terms of reference require the Audit Committee to carry out an annual review of the independence of the Groups Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
The first such review has been undertaken during 2006.
Senior members of the audit team are rotated on a regular basis.
The Company has a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors.
The implementation of the policy is continually monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has considered the provision of non-audit services performed by the Auditors described on page 59 and was satisfied they were and continue to be objective and independent of the Group.
Investment Committee The Company has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
An Investment Committee reporting to the Board and chaired by Mr Edens is responsible for reviewing and approving all significant individual property transactions proposed by the Group.
The Committee also monitors: the disposals of surplus property: rent reviews: lease renewals: development opportunities: dilapidations settlements: and freehold and leasehold acquisitions.
The Committee evaluates, considers and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to proposals for new business in terms of the type: fit with the Companys strategic plan: its profitability: and the resources required.
In addition, the Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to: customer requests: invitations to tender bid: market research: networking information: risk evaluation and major expenditure on lifecycle and other projects in relation to the Groups properties.
Table of attendance for the period from Admission on 21 June 2005 to 31 December 2005: Full Board Remuneration Audit Nominations Investment Director meeting Committee Committee Committee Committee Jameson Hopkins 7 n a n a n a 6 Wes Edens 5 1 n a 1 n a Charles Parkinson 5 1 1 1 3 John Harris 5 n a 2 n a 5 Roger Carey 3 1 1 1 n a Michael Fascitelli n a n a There were no Board or Board Committees meetings betweenthe date of appointment to the Board of Mr Fascitelli and 31 December 2005.
Internal control There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Executive Director and senior operational management are responsible for identifying key risks and assessing their probable impact through formal processes at both Group and subsidiary levels.
During 2005, the Board discharged responsibility for internal control through the following key procedures: the establishment of an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority and divisions of responsibilities: a comprehensive system of reporting, budgeting and planning, that is approved by the Board and against which performance is monitored: the formulation of policies and of approval procedures in a number of key areas such as treasury operations and capital expenditure.
These are to be reviewed from time to time by the Board to confirm their adequacy: and the provision of a code of conduct for employees and the monitoring of the quality of personnel through an annual performance appraisal process.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations.
The Group has what it believes to be an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve its objectives.
The Group has designed and implemented procedures to ensure complete and accurate accounting and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Control measures undertaken include physical controls, segregation of duties and reviews by management.
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control was kept under review during the year by the Board.
This review included financial, operational and compliance issues.
A formal evaluation is planned in 2006.
The Board considers its policy and procedures to be robust, whilst recognising that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders The Chairman, Chief Executive and designated members of senior management are the Companys principal spokespersons with investors, fund managers, the press and other interested parties.
The Board is fully informed on the information provided to shareholders and their reactions.
There are regular meetings with institutional shareholders held by the Chief Executive and Finance Officer which are reported on to the Board.
At the AGM, investors will be given the opportunity to question the Board and to meet with them afterwards.
They will be encouraged to participate in the meeting.
The Group has not included separate reports of the Audit and Nominations Committees, as these Committees have only had limited activity in the period since Admission on 21 June 2005 and the Directors consider their activities are adequately reported herein.
