Minerva plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2005 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee the Committee is established under terms of reference approved by the Board.
Principal responsibilities The principal responsibilities of the Committee, set out in its terms of reference, are as follows: To consider the appointment and independence of the external auditors and make appropriate recommendations to the Board: To consider and recommend the audit fee to the Board and approve non-audit services provided by the external auditors: To discuss with the external auditors their approach to risk and the nature and scope of their audit: To review, where applicable, the management letter presented by the auditors at the completion of the audit and consider managements response: To consider whether there is a need to establish an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board: To review the reports on risk management and the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control: To monitor, review and report to the Board on any financial information to be published by the Company: and To review arrangements by which staff of the Company, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated by the Board in January 2004.
Membership The Committee comprises solely of independent non-executive Directors.
Clive Richards has chaired the Committee throughout the year and Christopher Sheridan has also served on the Committee throughout the year.
Clive Richards is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Christopher Sheridan is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and a Member of the Securities Institute.
Both members are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Meetings The Committee met twice during the year ended 30 June 2005.
The Finance Director, other executives and representatives of the external auditors have been invited to attend each meeting.
The Committee is able to consider items of business without any other parties being present.
Main activities of the Committee In the year under review the Committee has undertaken: Detailed reviews of published annual and interim financial information including consideration of the appropriateness of accounting policies and material assumptions and estimates adopted by management: A review of the performance and independence of the external auditors: A meeting with the auditors without any executives being present: Monitoring non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors in light of the Committees policy that such assignments will not be awarded to the audit firm if there is a risk of a conflict arising with the firms independence and objectivity: A review of the need to establish an internal audit function: and Monitoring developments in accounting and reporting requirements and in particular the Companys implementation of changes arising from the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The review of managements reports to the Board on risk management and internal controls and the Companys public statements on these matters are currently dealt with by the Board.
For and on behalf of the Board Clive Richards Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 September 2005
