Minerva plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company and the application of the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code is set out below.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code, except in relation to the following areas: A system for appraising the performance of the Board and its members A system for appraising the performance of the Board, and its members, will be introduced in the current year.
An Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee consisting of three independent non-executive Directors The Group had two independent non-executive Directors during the year.
The Company has appointed a third independent non-executive Director since the year end and he is expected to become a member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee in due course.
At least half the Board should comprise independent non-executive Directors The Board is of the opinion that, given the nature of the Company and the experience and skills of the executive and non-executive Directors, the current balance is appropriate at the current time.
A Nominations Committee Given the small size of the Board, it continues to be agreed that nominations are to remain a matter reserved for the Board.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit and against criteria specifically set for the role.
Chairman promoted from Chief Executive The Company recognises that the Combined Code states that the Chairman on appointment should be independent and that the Chief Executive should not become Chairman.
Nevertheless, the Board, after careful consideration, was of the opinion that the Company and its shareholders would benefit, with Andrew Rosenfeld as Chairman, from his experience of the UK real estate industry and knowledge of the business.
Discussions were subsequently held by management with a number of large shareholders.
Chairman and Chief Executive roles During the period in which a new Chief Executive was being recruited, the Chairman performed the role of both Chairman and Chief Executive for just over three months.
Public Interest Disclosure Policy The Combined Code provides that a procedure should be established so that the employees may, in confidence, raise concern about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
This policy was introduced after it was recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board in April 2005.
Board of Directors The Company supports the concept of an effective Board leading and controlling the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for setting overall strategy, acquisitions and disposals, internal control, approval of major capital expenditure projects, treasury and risk management policies, and consideration of significant matters relating to the raising of finance and corporate governance.
The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities which include a schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision and which was reviewed and updated in January 2004.
The Board comprised three executive Directors, including the Chairman, and two independent non-executive Directors during the year under review.
The Board operates within a structure in which the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors including non-executive Directors are clearly defined.
Chairman and Chief Executive Up until Sir David Garrards retirement as Chairman on 31 March 2005, and following Salmaan Hasans arrival as Chief Executive on 4 July 2005, the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been, and continued to be, split.
The Chairman was responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive had responsibility for the management of the Companys day-to-day operations.
For the period from 31 March 2005 until 4 July 2005 during which a Chief Executive was being recruited, Andrew Rosenfeld performed the role of both Chairman and Chief Executive.
Non-executive Directors Clive Richards remained the senior independent Director.
The Board considers that, notwithstanding that both Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan have been members of the Board since October 1996, each of the non-executive Directors remain independent.
In addition, the Board considers the new non-executive Director, Christopher Mackenzie who was appointed in September 2005, to be independent.
In making this determination the Board has considered whether each Director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could affect, the relevant Directors judgement.
During the year the Chairman met with the non-executive Directors without the executives being present.
Minerva plc 25 Annual report and accounts 2005 Board balance and independence The non-executive Directors are of high calibre and contribute wide ranging commercial and financial experience to the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considers that the experience and skills of the executives and non-executive Directors on the Board will be further enhanced following the appointment of Christopher Mackenzie as a non-executive Director.
Training in matters that are relevant to their role on the Board are available to all Board Directors, including on appointment.
Biographies of each member of the Board are set out on pages 20 to 21.
Board meetings In addition to meetings of Directors arranged to discuss particular transactions and events and the Annual General Meeting, the Board met formally on five occasions during the year under review.
The attendance record of the Directors is shown in the table below.
Sir David Andrew Paul Ivan Christopher Clive Garrard Rosenfeld Coster Ezekiel Sheridan Richards Board 3 5 5 2 55 Audit Committee n a n a n a n a 2 2 Remuneration Committee n a n a n a n a 2 2 Attended all Board meetings until retirement from the Board on 31 March 2005.
Attended all Board meetings since appointment to the Board on 31 March 2005.
For each scheduled meeting, the Board is supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Rotation of Directors The Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, whereby one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
In addition, all Directors are required to submit themselves for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
In accordance with the Combined Code, non-executive Directors who serve on the Board for more than nine years are required to submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting annually thereafter.
Company Secretary The role of the Company Secretary is carried out by the Finance Director.
The Board considers that combining these roles does not compromise the proper execution of the Secretarys responsibilities.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company and to the services of the Company Secretary who is available to give ongoing advice to all Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance.
Board changes Sir David Garrard retired from the Board on 31 March 2005 and was replaced by Andrew Rosenfeld as Chairman of the Company on that date.
Ivan Ezekiel was appointed to the Board as Finance Director on 31 March 2005.
Since the year end, Salmaan Hasan, Tim Garnham, and Christopher Mackenzie have joined the Board as Chief Executive, Development Director and non-executive Director respectively, whilst Paul Coster will retire as Property Director on 30 September 2005.
Board committees The Board has established two standing committees in which the non-executive Directors play an active role.
Each committee has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and which deal with the authorities and duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on written request from the Company Secretary.
These committees are: The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising Christopher Sheridan Chairman and Clive Richards, met twice during the year ended 30 June 2005.
The Companys executives have attended by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the terms and conditions of employment of executive Directors including the provision of incentives and performance related benefits.
The report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 27 to 31.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee, comprising Clive Richards Chairman and Christopher Sheridan, met twice during the year ended 30 June 2005.
The Companys auditors and executives have attended by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for, amongst other things, the appointment of external auditors, reviewing the interim and annual financial results, considering matters raised by the auditors and monitoring the internal control system operated by the Group.
The Board is satisfied that both Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan have extensive and relevant financial experience through their past and present involvement with various listed and unlisted companies.
A report by the Audit Committee is set out on page 32.
Corporate governance continued Minerva plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2005 Relations with shareholders The Company has always recognised the importance of clear communications with shareholders and has encouraged a regular dialogue with institutional and other shareholders.
The Company holds regular meetings with, and presentations to, its existing shareholders and potential new shareholders to discuss strategic and other issues.
Care is taken to ensure the protection of price sensitive information which has not already been made available to all shareholders.
During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Company through the announcement of financial results and other news that are released through the London Stock Exchange, other news services and the Companys website.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Interim Report, Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and any related papers are posted to shareholders with the Annual Report at least 20 working days before the date of the Annual General Meeting to ensure that the shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items of business.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders.
Separate resolutions at the Annual General Meeting are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper consideration.
The Company counts all proxy votes and will indicate at the Annual General Meeting the level of proxies lodged on each resolution where such resolution has been dealt with by a show of hands.
Accountability and audit Internal control The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has been in place during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of this process the Board carries out an annual review of significant business risks, considering the scope and effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property, finance and external markets which impact on its objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to mitigate those risks.
These are reviewed, adopted and, if appropriate, updated during the year.
These include business risks, financial controls and the regulatory environment.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has resolved that, due to the size of the Company, this is not appropriate at present.
This decision is reviewed annually.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains and losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors confirm that in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2005, suitable accounting policies, in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used.
The Directors also confirm that the going concern basis is appropriate.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for maintaining the integrity of the Groups website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
UK legislation governing preparation and dissemination of financial statements may therefore differ from that in other jurisdictions.
