Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 Report on corporate governance 28 The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year to 31 March 2005 the company believes that it has applied the principles and, save as otherwise indicated, complied with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
The information set out in this section and in the Directors Remuneration Report describes how the company has applied the principles and complied with the Codes provisions.
The Board The role of the Board The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic direction, development and control of the group.
It has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval and discusses and makes decisions relating to group strategy, annual budgets, operational and financial performance, investment portfolio acquisitions and disposals, development opportunities and other capital expenditure, remuneration and board appointments, internal control and risk management and corporate governance matters.
The Board ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet its objectives.
It delegates certain dened tasks and responsibilities to its various committees and to individual directors.
The Board adopts objective criteria for the appointment of directors, and the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been dened in writing and approved.
The Chairman, Mr H R Mould, is responsible for leading the Board in the determination of strategy and achievement of objectives.
He ensures the Board receives timely and accurate information and represents the company externally communicating with shareholders.
The Chairman meets as necessary and at least once each year with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The Chief Executive, Mr P L Vaughan, is responsible on a day to day basis for implementing the companys strategic objectives.
He is accountable to the Board for the performance of the group.
Directors and directors independence The Board currently consists of Chairman, five executive and five non-executive directors.
The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out on page 18.
All the directors served throughout the period under review except for Mr M McGann who was appointed director on 1 July 2004.
The Board considers four of its non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Mr J M Mara is a senior officer of the General Electric Investment Company, a major shareholder of the company and is therefore not considered to be independent.
Sir Derek Hornby has been on the Board for more than nine years, however he is considered to be independent and free from any business or other relationship, which could interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement, notwithstanding his length of service.
The Board believes he has brought considerable benefit to the Board given his wealth of knowledge and has been appointed as Senior Independent Director.
Sir Derek Hornby is always available to meet shareholders on request and is responsible for ensuring that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through discussions with the Chairman or executive directors.
The Senior Independent Director chairs meetings of the non-executive directors at which the performance of the Chairman is reviewed.
All directors have access to independent professional advice at the groups expense, and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the board for advice on corporate governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter requiring approval of the board.
The company maintains appropriate directors and ofcers liability insurance.
Re-election of directors Executive directors have service contracts that have a notice period of 12 months.
In accordance with the companys Articles of Association directors are required to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
Directors over the age of 70 or who have served for more than nine years must seek re-election annually.
Professional development New directors undertake an induction programme on joining the Board, which introduces them to the groups business and operations, the role of the board and its corporate governance practices and procedures where appropriate.
Directors are regularly updated on strategic developments, regulatory and governance issues through presentations and meeting with senior executives.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Chairman leads this process mainly through detailed discussions with each director on a one to one basis.
The results of the evaluation are discussed by the board and the goals for the forthcoming year are agreed and set.
The Senior Independent Director, taking account of the other directors views, reviews the Chairmans performance.
The performance evaluation concluded that directors serving on the board and its committees continue to perform effectively.
Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 29 Board meetings, attendance and information flow The full board meets six times a year.
Regular reports and papers are circulated in a timely manner giving directors sufficient time to consider matters for discussion.
These papers are supplemented by additional information specically requested by the directors.
A table of attendance at board and committee meetings is set out below.
Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 632 Attendance: H R Mould 6 N A N A P L Vaughan 6 N A N A H J M Price 5 N A N A A M Jones 6 N A N A V T Beresford 5 N A N A M McGann 5 N A N A Sir Derek Hornby 512 R A Hambro 532 A J M Huntley 522 J M Mara 512 M C Stoddart 532 Mr M McGann was director for only five of the scheduled board meetings.
Committees Each committee of the board has written terms of reference that are available on written request from the Company Secretary.
Membership of each committee is detailed on page 18.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
Mr M C Stoddart, who has significant recent and relevant financial experience being FCA qualied, chairs it.
The other members are the remaining non-executive directors, who together bring a wide range of business knowledge and experience to the Committee.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and more frequently if required.
Its primary task is to review the half yearly and annual accounts prior to submission to the board, focusing in particular on accounting policies, compliance, and areas of management, judgement and estimates.
It acts as a forum for discussion on internal control issues and reports to the board on the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls.
It also controls the appointment of the external auditors, reviews the volume of their non-audit services provided to the group and ensures an appropriate relationship between the group and the external auditors is maintained.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the provision of non-audit services provided by the groups external auditors do not impair their independence or objectivity.
To this end, prior approval by the Audit Committee is required for any activities that may be perceived to be in conict with the role of external auditors and where the fee is likely to be significant.
Details of the amounts paid to external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 5 of the financial statements.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is specically charged with determining the companys policy on executive directors and senior managers remuneration.
It meets at least once a year and comprises all non-executive directors and is chaired by the senior independent non-executive director, Sir Derek Hornby.
Full details of each directors remuneration, including share options and bonus payments, are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Appointments to the board There is no formal Nomination Committee, as the company believes the appointment of directors is a matter for the entire board.
The board evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience within the company and on the board itself, and plans for board and senior management succession.
It prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Outside consultants are often used in the search for new non-executive directors.
During the year the board approved the elevation and appointment of Mr M McGann as finance director.
Shareholder relations The executive directors meet and make presentations to institutional shareholders and analysts after the announcement of the interim and final results and on other ad hoc occasions during the year to ensure the companys objectives, strategy and results are well understood.
Any views expressed or issues raised are reported back to the board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet and discuss any issues or concerns raised by the shareholders.
The Chairman gives feedback to the board on any issues raised.
All major shareholders are given the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors on appointment.
The directors appreciate the importance of private shareholders in the company and use the companys Extraordinary General Meetings and Annual General Meetings as further opportunities to communicate with private investors.
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet informally with the directors afterwards.
The company has a comprehensive website available to shareholders and investors.
Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2005 Report on corporate governance continued 30 Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to safeguard assets, ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, provide reliable financial information and comply with applicable legislation.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the groups system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The board reviews annually the risk prole of the group and considers the effectiveness with which it is managed.
The groups management structure has clearly delegated authority levels, functional reporting lines and accountability.
The group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system, allowing management to monitor financial and operational performance on a continuing basis and to identify and respond to business risks before, and as, they arise.
Key elements of the internal control system include a list of matters reserved for approval solely by the board.
Such items include approval of major transactions, control over capital expenditure, acquisition and disposal of major xed assets, borrowing limits and treasury policy.
The board must also approve all major contracts and those that involve material ongoing business risks, liability or commitments.
Responsibility for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the groups auditors and their various other business departments is vested in Mr M McGann, Finance Director.
The system of internal control and the effectiveness thereof have been reviewed by the board for the year under review and up to the date of this report in accordance with the Turnbull Committees guidance.
Due to its size, the group does not currently have an internal audit function, although this matter is reviewed annually.
Non-compliance with the Code There are two Code provisions with which the company did not comply for the year ending 31 March 2005: 1 Independence of board members the revised Combined Code states that at least half of the board excluding the Chairman should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
There are ten directors excluding the Chairman, five of which are non-executive, but only four of these are considered to be independent.
As previously reported Mr J M Mara is a senior officer of a major shareholder of the company.
The board considers Sir Derek Hornby, the Senior Independent Director, to be fully independent despite having served on the board for more than nine years.
Shareholder pressure groups have raised concerns over the independence of Mr R A Hambro being a director of Credit Suisse UK Limited, aprivate client wealth management business and a fellow subsidiary of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Ltd CSFB.
CSFB is joint financial adviser to the group, and the board does not believe this directorship affects Mr Hambros independence in any way, due to the different business sectors of these two companies.
2 Constitution of Committees the revised Code states that the Remuneration and Audit Committees should consist of at least three members, all of which should be independent non-executive directors.
Both these committees are made up of five non-executive directors, only four of which are considered by the board to be independent, as stated in point 1.
The Combined Code requires to company to form a Nomination Committee with the majority of members being independent non-executive directors.
The board believes that the appointment of directors is a matter for the full board and has not therefore appointed a Nomination Committee.
