30 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report The Board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In carrying out its duties, it delegates detailed responsibility for internal control to the Audit Committee.
Introduction The duties of the Audit Committee are set out in its Terms The Audit Committee submits its report for the year ended of Reference, which were reviewed and approved during 31 March 2005, which sets out the Groups audit policy and the the period and include: role of the Committee in monitoring the financial systems and the management of external and internal auditors which are carried monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and any financial announcements and significant reporting out in accordance with current legislation and best practice.
judgments therein: Once again, the directors will be seeking approval of the Groups considering and making recommendations to the Board Audit Report from its shareholders at its AGM.
regarding the appointment or removal of the internal and external auditors: Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises all the non-executive reviewing internal financial controls: directors, and since October 2002 has been chaired by monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal David Pangbourne, who is a former partner with Deloitte audit function: & Touche LLP and a qualified Chartered Accountant.
During the year, the Committee met four times with full reviewing the nature and scope of the external audit attendance on each occasion.
The Chairman will be present and monitoring the external auditors independence at the AGM to answer questions from shareholders and offer and effectiveness: himself for re-election.
forming policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors: The Finance Director, the Chief Financial Officer and others attend by invitation.
The Committee met with the external auditor considering reports of the internal and external auditors twice during the year without management being present.
It met in the light of current corporate governance practice: and the valuers of the Groups principal properties prior to the release reviewing arrangements for staff to raise financial concerns of the interim and preliminary results.
In addition, the Committee has access to funding for any further The Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, may be independent legal, accounting or other advice it believes to be found on the Companys website or are available on request necessary for the effective execution of its duties.
31 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Audit Committee Report The Committee confirms that there has been an ongoing External auditor process in place for the identification, evaluation and The Groups external auditor was first appointed in April 1992. management of risk during the period to the date of the In July 1996, the audit was transferred to a corporate body, publication of this report, and the Committee is not aware KPMG Audit Plc the auditor.
of any previously unidentified risks.
Additionally, the Board has reviewed the scope, authority and resources of the The Committee makes recommendations on the appointment of and approves the remuneration of the external auditor, with Committee during the year.
particular regard to the setting of appropriate parameters of Internal control the audit.
It also ensures the auditors overall work plan is The Board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for the consistent with the terms of engagement and reviews the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
audit representation letters prior to signature by management.
Management The Committee meets the external auditor periodically to ensure prepares financial statements and disclosures in accordance a direct line of communication, to review its independence and with applicable rules and regulations which the Committee to agree the audit plan.
reviews for clarity, completeness, accuracy and context, The Committee reviews significant financial reporting issues and reports back to the Board.
and judgements made in connection with the preparation of The Group is committed to the highest standards of business preliminary, interim and other price sensitive public reports.
The conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its Chairman and the Committee discuss any major accounting operations.
The Group has what it believes to be an appropriate or other audit issues that arise with the external auditor.
organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve its objectives.
At the end of the audit cycle, the external auditors report is reviewed by the Committee, which reports the auditors The Group has procedures designed to ensure complete findings and makes recommendations to the Board.
and accurate accounting, and to limit the potential exposure The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the audit to loss of assets or fraud.
Control measures undertaken process itself, including: include physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews whether the auditor has met the management plan: by management, and internal and external audit.
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in handling In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate key accounting audit judgements and systems of internal Governance, the effectiveness of the Groups system of control: internal control was kept under review during the period, both by the Committee and by the Board.
This review obtaining feedback from key personnel: and included financial, operational and compliance issues.
the content of the management letter.
The Board considers its policy and procedures to be robust During the year, the Committee reviewed its procedures to whilst recognising that such a system is designed to manage ensure the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business auditor has its own internal procedures in place to ensure that objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute none of the audit team has a personal or financial interest in assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Company which might impair their judgement or objectivity.
Furthermore, it is the auditors policy that the lead audit partner Monitoring is achieved through assessment by internal auditors at be rotated at least every five years, in line with which the audit the direction of the Committee and the presentation to the Board partner in charge of the audit team was replaced in April 2003. of findings together with recommendations of any appropriate corrective actions to be taken.
The Group retained one financial The Groups policy regarding provision of non-audit services by and one non-financial internal auditor during the year, both of the auditor includes a requirement that any commitment to fees whom regularly reported directly to the Committee Chairman and of 20,000 or more to the auditor for non-audit services must be to the Committee itself at least twice a year.
The scope of their given prior permission from either the Committee or the Board.
work was reviewed during the period and agreed with the The total value of the auditors fees was as follows: 260,000 for Committee Chairman and Finance Director.
Since the year end, audit fees and 68,000 for non-audit fees.
A breakdown of these a new internal auditor has been appointed.
can be found in note 4b on page 58.
Deloitte provided taxation advice from 1 April 2004.
The Group has in place a whistle blowing policy under which members of staff with concerns may raise these in confidence under procedures contained in the staff handbook.
David Pangbourne Chairman of Audit Committee 7 June 2005
