32 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board collectively and individually subscribes to the principles and provisions in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and associated guidance and confirms that the Company is in compliance with the Code for the year under review.
The following is a summary of the Companys system During the year under review, the Board comprised the of Corporate Governance.
Chairman plus four executive and five non-executive directors, all of the latter being considered independent.
It has a good Introduction balance between executive and non-executive directors, with The Board collectively and individually subscribes to the the diversity of relevant skills required to further the interests of principles and provisions in the Combined Code on Corporate shareholders.
Brief biographies of each board member can be Governance and associated guidance and confirms that the found on pages 18 and 19.
It is the Groups policy that executive Company is in compliance with the Code for the year under directors may not hold more than one external directorship.
During the year Nick Shattock was a non-executive director of Hills Group, but resigned in July 2004.
James Hamilton Stubber The Board of Directors is a director of a small family property trading company, which A schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been approved does not conflict in any way with his duties and responsibilities which is reviewed on an annual basis.
It includes those matters at Quintain.
that are most significant to the Group, based on the nature and size of the transaction, both in terms of financial impact and risk.
Formal board meetings are held at least bi-monthly and during the year to 31 March 2005, there were six formal meetings As part of its collective responsibility for the management of which were attended by all directors.
During the period, there the Group, the Board must ensure that adequate resources were 32 other ad hoc board meetings, quorate, but not are in place to achieve its strategic aims and that its obligations necessarily of the full board, to facilitate day to day business to shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
The non-executive directors also met both with management of Group assets the Board is also conscious and without the Chairman present.
both of environmental issues and community relations.
As part of the planning process for the Wembley and Greenwich urban The Board is offered training and information in a form and of regeneration projects, the Group has also engaged in extensive a quality it believes is appropriate to enable it to discharge its consultation with central and local government and with the duties.
Directors receive training in specific areas relevant to their communities involved.
speciality and relevant to the Board as a whole.
New directors are offered an induction programme including tailor-made The directors take decisions objectively and in the best interests elements where appropriate.
of the Group, being collectively and individually responsible for its success.
They are accountable to each and every Joan MacNaughton, who became a non-executive director in shareholder and take into consideration the need to foster January 2004, followed an Institute of Directors course on the the Groups business relationships with other stakeholders Role and Responsibilities of being a Non-Executive Director, in discharging that obligation.
and other directors have attended ad-hoc training during the year.
33 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report The directors have access to the Company Secretary, who Board Committees is a Chartered Secretary.
The Company Secretary keeps The Companys policy is that all non-executives are members the directors informed of corporate governance issues and of all the committees of the Board except the Risk Committee.
changes in the law and best practice guidance, ensuring board Whilst the directors are aware that this may not be regarded as procedures are complied with, where required, and has access best practice by some, they believe it to be in the interests of the to external professional advice at the Groups expense.
Company to have maximum diversity of skills on its committees.
During the year, a formal board performance evaluation exercise David Pangbourne is currently Chairman of both the Audit was carried out by means of a questionnaire which all directors and Remuneration Committee.
However, it is intended responded to.
Its results were considered by the Board and that following the AGM, David will resign as Chairman of the by the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Chairmans Remuneration Committee and be replaced by Martin Meech.
performance was considered at a meeting of the non-executive Joan MacNaughton will take over the chair of the Donations directors without the Chairman present.
A small number of minor Committee from Martin Meech.
points were identified and actioned.
The Audit Committee meets formally at least three times each The non-executive directors bring independent views to year.
It also meets separately with the auditors and the the Board.
They have diverse experience having expertise in Companys property valuers.
During the year ended 31 March chartered surveying, the civil service, accountancy, law and 2005, the Committee met on four occasions with full attendance economics to add to the Boards effectiveness, particularly in the at each meeting.
Its Terms of Reference include consideration of areas of corporate strategy, governance and risk.
Non-executive the appointment and terms of engagement of the external and directors take an active part in debate and not being afraid to internal auditors together with a review of their independence, challenge proposals ensures the robustness of Board decisions.
objectivity and effectiveness, the coordination of internal and Lady Judge is the deputy chairman of the Financial Reporting external auditors, reviewing auditors reports, annual and interim Council and chairman of the Professional Standards Advisory reports, asset valuations, internal control policy and procedures Board of the Institute of Directors.
She is a lawyer and expert and consistency.
in corporate governance and continues to be the nominated The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times each Senior Independent Director SID.
Lady Judges experience and qualifications make her the most appropriate non-executive year.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Committee met five times with full attendance at each meeting except for director for this role and she is available to meet shareholders on request and at the AGM.
one at which Martin Meech offered his apologies.
Its Terms of Reference include consideration of all aspects of the executive Non-executive directors contracts are for an initial period directors performance, employment, remuneration and of three years, which may, in exceptional circumstances, incentives.
It also sets the remuneration and incentives policy of be extended for further periods, subject to re-election by the the Group as a whole and approves the remuneration of senior members in general meeting.
Executive directors have rolling staff.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 24 to 29. service contracts which provide for a notice period of six months.
None of the service agreements contain any liquidated damages The Nominations Committee is responsible for the selection and approval of candidates for appointment to the Board.
The or payment in lieu of damages on change of control provisions.
All directors contracts are available for inspection at the Committee meets formally at least once a year and otherwise when required.
During the year, it met once with full attendance.
registered office at the AGM.
It is chaired by Nigel Ellis and comprises all the non-executive In accordance with the Companys Articles, each director directors and the Chief Executive.
Whilst some guidance must stand for re-election at least every three years.
views Adrian Wyatts membership of this Committee as not in accordance with best practice, the directors believe it to be The Terms of Reference of the Audit and Remuneration in the best interests of the Group.
The Committees Terms of Committees require the chairman of each committee to Reference include the review of the structure and composition offer himself herself for re-election annually.
of the Board, the identification of suitable candidates to fill vacancies as and when they arise, making recommendations This year James Hamilton Stubber, John Plender and Nick for the re-election of directors and forming succession plans.
Shattock are standing for re-election as directors.
David The Terms of Reference for the Nominations Committee are Pangbourne is also standing for re-election in his capacity as available on request from the Company Secretary or on the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Martin Meech for election Companys website www.
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Tom Cross Brown is also standing for election by shareholders at the first AGM The Donations Committee is responsible for evaluating charitable following his appointment.
Whilst the Chairman is not a nonrequests submitted to the Company and makes decisions within executive director, Nigel Ellis has been a director since November the scope of pre-set criteria which are reviewed periodically.
1995 and accordingly, the Board believes that it is appropriate The Committee meets as necessary and met once formally in the that he should stand for re-election on an annual basis.
Adrian Wyatt offered his apologies for this meeting.
Board recommends to shareholders that those directors offering The Committee works within a policy which requires it to allocate themselves for election at its forthcoming AGM be re-elected at least 50% of the donations budget to organisations working in because of the significant value they create and the wide ranging the property and construction industries, the local communities skills and experience which they bring to bear in the workings of in which the Group operates and those involved in accessibility the Board.
It also encourage staff participation in the raising 34 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report of funds for charity, by matching the fund raising efforts of Going concern individual employees who participate in charitable events up to The following statement is made as required by provision C. 1.2 a maximum of 500 per employee.
The Committee is currently of the Code: chaired by Martin Meech and comprises the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
It is intended that Joan After making enquiries, including reviewing the Groups budgets and available finance, the directors have a reasonable MacNaughton will take on the chair following the AGM.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue The Risk Committee comprises David Pangbourne, in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this John Plender, Martin Meech and Adrian Wyatt and is chaired reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in by Rebecca Worthington.
The Committee met once during preparing the accounts.
the year with full attendance.
Matters within its remit include Directors responsibilities financial and treasury issues, valuation, reputation, legal, Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for corporate governance, management, economic and each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of operational risks.
affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit and loss Lease Code for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are The Company is in support of the initiatives set out in The Code required to: of Practice for Commercial Leases in England and Wales, which select suitable accounting policies and then apply them was launched on 22 April 2002.
The Code contains a range of consistently: recommendations which are deemed to represent best practice between principals and their representatives in landlord and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and tenant matters.
prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been Shareholder relations followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and The Finance Director, with the assistance of her fellow explained in the accounts.
executive directors, is primarily responsible for investor relations and regularly makes contact with institutional The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and other shareholders in an effort to maintain an open records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time and effective dialogue.
the financial position of the Company and the Group to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies The Chairman, the SID and the other non-executive directors Act 1985. are also available to meet with larger shareholders to review strategy and corporate governance, or to discuss matters They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the of concern.
Shareholders views are communicated to the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Board as a whole and summaries of shareholder meetings for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Formal feedback from shareholders is also given to the directors by the Companys brokers, Internal controls JPMorgan Cazenove Limited.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such The Companys AGM provides a further opportunity for investors a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk to question the directors, both formally and informally.
They also of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only have a chance to meet any new directors.
The number of proxy reasonable and not absolute assurance against material votes lodged for each motion is announced at the meeting and misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Code, the Board recorded in the minutes, a copy of which is posted on the has in place an on-going system of identification, evaluation corporate website.
and management of significant risks.
The effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls was reviewed during the The Company maintains a website at www.
com period, both by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
This which provides information relating to the property portfolio, review included financial, operational, compliance and risk policy statements, finance, contacts, press releases and onmanagement.
During the year and up to the date of this report, screen annual reports.
There is also a section containing the the Board was not aware of any material risks or incidents not Companys statutory documents.
Interested parties may register previously assessed.
It is anticipated that in future years this to receive notification of press releases and may contact the will also be part of the Risk Committees remit.
35 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Report Risk identification: managers are responsible for ongoing The Group has entered into a number of joint ventures, the most identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to their material being the Quercus Healthcare Property Partnership areas and for taking appropriate action.
Risks may be associated and Meridian Delta Limited, which are not controlled by the with a variety of internal or external sources including control Company.
These have therefore not been included as part of breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, the Group for the purposes of the internal control assessment.
natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The risks The Board is committed to following corporate governance identified and the actions taken to minimise or eliminate them are assessed on a regular basis by the internal auditors who report best practice wherever possible and has undertaken to review its position annually.
It has considered its system of internal to the Audit Committee.
Significant findings are presented to the Board and can result in refinements to internal procedures.
control and its effectiveness for the financial year and up to the date of this report and, in its opinion, the process accords with Control environment: the Group is committed to the highest the current guidance.
standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these By Order of the Board standards across all of its operations.
The Board considers it has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority are Sue Dixon documented.
Company Secretary 7 June 2005 Information and communication: periodic strategic reviews are carried out which include the consideration of long-term projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Annual budgets and strategic plans are prepared.
The portfolio manager provides management with regular operational progress reports for consideration and, where necessary, early corrective action.
Periodic forecasts support the active monitoring of the Groups performance against plan.
Both results and forecasts are consolidated and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
The other key elements of the Groups system of internal control are as follows: regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee, whose overall responsibilities are set out in this Report and the Audit Committees Terms of Reference: a management structure designed to enable effective decision-making with clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
An important part of this structure is a weekly meeting of the executive directors to review the ongoing business and decide on proposed acquisitions divestments and capital expenditure: agreed operational procedures, both internal and in dealings with external bodies, which assist in the maintenance of uniformly high standards: the measurement of financial performance at least once every three months against budgets and long-term financial plans: consideration by the Risk Committee of issues which may affect the Group on a wider basis: and investigation by internal audit staff of areas of specific risk.
