Corporate Governance Report The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management The Chief Executive is responsible for leading and managing present in person, the two Non-Executive Directors based in and control of the Company's activities and is committed to the business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
America and Robert McKellar who is based in Asia attend by high standards of Corporate Governance.
During the last The biographies of the current Board members appear on audio or video-conference.
When Directors are not able to couple of years the Board has conducted an ongoing review pages 27 and 28.
The Board considers that there is an attend Board or Committee meetings, their comments on the of its corporate governance policies and procedures inter alia appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive papers to be considered at that meeting are relayed in to reflect the impact of the Higgs Review of the Role and Directors and that no individual or small group of individuals advance to the relevant Chairman.
The Board has adopted a Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors, the Smith Report on dominates the Board's decision taking.
The Non-Executive formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it for decision.
"Audit Committees and the revised Code issued in July 2003 Directors have a wide range of business experience and These matters reserved for the Board include: the ""Code""."
The Board is also aware of the current expertise and provide a strong independent element on the consultation being conducted in respect of the Code and will Board.
Timothy Ingram, Fields Wicker-Miurin and Charles approval and management of Group Corporate strategy: consider the need for any further review once the consultation McVeigh are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The review of Group Policies and Codes of Conduct: has concluded in April 2006. remaining two Non-Executive Directors are corporate approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure representatives of Trammell Crow Company, a major share budgets and any material changes: Compliance holder and as such may not be considered independent for review of performance, assessed against the Group's The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, the purposes of the Code.
During the year, the Company strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: with the exception of one area detailed below see Board became a member of the FTSE 250.
The Board, therefore is approval of interim and preliminary announcements and Composition and Balance, the Company has complied with not currently compliant with A.
3.2 of the Code which requires the annual report and accounts: the provisions recommended in section 1 of the Code which that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises approval of the dividend policy: applies to the financial period that is the subject to this Annual independent Non-Executive Directors.
Also, mindful of the need approval of any significant changes in accounting policies Report.
to consider succession planning, the Board has commenced or practices: a search and selection process to identify an additional extension of the Group's activities into new other geographic Board Composition and Balance independent Non-Executive Director to join the Board.
areas: The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, three approval of any significant acquisitions or investments: Independent Non-Executive Directors, two other Non-Executive Functioning of the Board any decision to divest any Group business: Directors and five Executive Directors.
The Directors receive management information, including delegation of the appropriate authorities and agreeing financial, subsidiary and strategic reports, in advance of the terms of reference for its various committees: and The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are Board meetings.
During the year the Board held nine regular the appointment of new directors.
The Chairman is responsible for the workings and meetings.
Attendance by Directors at meetings is outlined in the leadership of the Board and for the balance of its membership.
Attendance of Meeting table on page 37.
When unable to be 35 Corporate Governance Report continued The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least twice During the year, the Board commenced a thorough selection and consider reports from both the Internal Auditor and each year without the presence of the Executive Directors and process for the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Group's external auditors, to consider the adequacy of the also meet without the Chairman.
Director and external consultants were appointed to assist Group's internal controls and risk management and to assess in this process.
The Board delegated responsibility for the the auditors performance.
The Committee considers on an There is an approved procedure for Directors to take independent process to the Appointments Committee.
This process is ongoing basis the independence of the external auditors and professional advice at the Group's expense, if necessary.
currently ongoing and the Appointments Committee will make has established policies to consider the appropriateness or In addition, all the Directors have access to the advice and their recommendation in due course.
New Directors receive otherwise of appointing the external auditors to perform services of the Company Secretary.
appropriate briefing on their role and responsibilities and on non-audit services.
The Group Chief Executive and Financial Board procedures.
Controller may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee, Board Committees but are not members.
The Committee determines that its The Board has delegated certain authorities to committees The Company's Articles of Association provide that Directors various members bring appropriate experience to the role.
each with formal terms of reference.
The terms of reference must submit themselves for re-election every three years and The Board is satisfied that the audit members have recent and for the Audit, Appointments and Remuneration Committees that newly appointed Directors must submit themselves for relevant financial experience.
are available on request and are also available on the Company's re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their website www.
The members of each committee are appointment.
In making recommendations to shareholders for indicated on pages 27 and 28.
The principal committees of the reappointment of any Director, the Appointment Committee the Board are as follows: considers that Director's performance and ongoing contribution to the success of the Company and makes its relevant Appointments Committee recommendation to the Board.
The Committee consists of the three independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by Peter Audit Committee Smith.
The Committee meets as required to nominate The Committee consists of the three Independent Non-Executive candidates for the approval of the Board to fill vacancies Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Fields Wicker-Miurin or new positions on the Board of Directors and to make and meets at least three times a year to consider the scope recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance.
and results of the annual audit and interim review, to receive 36 Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Committee evaluation process facilitated by an external consultant.
Each The last of these interviews was held in January 2006.
The The Committee consists of the three Independent Non-Executive Board member was also asked to evaluate the Chairman.
consultant analysed and collated comments from the interviews Directors and meets at least twice a year to determine Company and provided feedback to the Board in a Report at the Board policy on senior executive remuneration and to agree the The Board used the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Meeting on 7 March 2006. detailed remuneration packages of the Executive Directors.
as guidance, tailored to meet the Board Committees' specific The Remuneration Committee takes the advice of external requirements.
The evaluation process concluded that the Board and its main consultants from time to time as appropriate.
The Group Chief committees are working satisfactorily.
Action plans to address Executive is consulted on the remuneration packages of the The individual Directors and or Committee members initially any specific issues that arose during the evaluation have been other directors and senior executives and attends remuneration completed separate questionnaires and a series of one-to-one agreed and put in place and progress will be reviewed discussions by invitation, except when his own position is interviews took place with the external consultant.
Given the central part that remuneration covered the workings and interactions of the Board and plays in the success of the Company, the Chairman is also Committee members.
invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
Executive Sub-Committee Attendance at Meetings Savills plc has an Executive Sub-Committee ESC, which Directors' attendance at Board and Committee Meetings convened in the year ended 31 December 2005 was as follows: comprises the Group Chief Executive and such other Executive Board Audit Remuneration Appointment Directors as the Board shall nominate from time to time.
Any Committee Committee Committee Director of the Company may be invited by the Committee Number of meetings in year 9 5 7 3 from time to time to attend all or part of the Committees Attended Attended Attended Attended proceedings.
Under the leadership of the Group Chief Non-Executive Directors Executive, the ESC reviews the day to day operation of the Peter Smith 9 - - 3 Group, including risk management, authorises certain William Concannon 6 - - - investments, monitors Group performance and may deal with Tim Ingram 8 5 7 3 other specific matters delegated to it by the Board.
The current Fields Wicker-Miurin 9 5 7 3 Committee members are indicated on pages 27 and 28.
The Derek McClain 9 - - - Committee meets at least once between Board meetings and Charles McVeigh 7 4 7 2 the Minutes of the ESC are circulated to all Board members in Executive Directors advance of full Board Meetings.
Aubrey Adams 9 - - - Jeremy Helsby 9 - - - Board Performance and Evaluation Simon Hope 8 - - - Significant advancement in a formal evaluation process was Robert McKellar 8 - - - made during the year under the leadership of the new Rupert Sebag-Montefiore 9 - - - Chairman.
Towards the end of the year, the Board and each Members of the ESC.
The ESC met twelve times during the year.
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees carried out an 37 Corporate Governance Report continued Insurance Cover changes see page 47 of the Remuneration Report.
All Internal Control and Risk Management The Company purchases insurance to cover its directors and shareholders are sent a copy of the full Annual Report and The Group has adopted a formal system of internal controls officers against their costs in defending themselves in civil Accounts and the Interim Statement.
Information about the intended to safeguard the shareholders' investment and the legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in Company is also available on the website at www.
The Board is responsible for the Group's respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing of any proceedings.
The insurance does not provide cover The Directors welcome and encourage the participation of the effectiveness of the system.
The system is designed to where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
private shareholders at the AGM.
In accordance with the Code, provide reasonable assurance with regard to the safeguarding the Chairman declared the level and manner of voting of of assets against unauthorised use or disposition and the Directors' Remuneration proxies lodged on each resolution at the AGM held during the maintenance of financial information used within the business The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 43 to 52.
As outlined in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this or for publication.
However, such a system can only provide Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders at the Report & Accounts the Directors will also ask shareholders to reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Annual General Meeting AGM in 2006. approve a resolution to permit electronic proxy voting through CREST at all future meetings.
The Chairmen of the Board's The Executive Sub-Committee ESC conducts an annual Relations with Shareholders principal committees were present at the 2005 AGM to answer review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control The Board maintains an open relationship and dialogue with shareholders' questions as required.
The Directors aim to give covering financial, operational and compliance controls and shareholders and has a regular programme of meetings with as much notice of the AGM as possible which will be at least risk management.
Detailed self assessment questionnaires are analysts which ensures that the Board is aware of shareholder 21 days, as required by the Company's Articles of Association.
completed by the senior management in each part of the sentiment.
Meetings are held with major institutional shareholders In practice, this Report and Notice of AGM are being sent to business and the results collated and considered by the ESC.
regularly and include presentations at the time of the Company's shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM Trends are analysed and consideration is given to those areas preliminary announcement of annual results and half year as required under the Code.
The Notice of Annual General that should be recommended for incorporation in the Internal report.
During the year the Company Secretary met with Meeting of Shareholders and explanatory notes are sent to Audit Plan.
The results are then presented to both the Audit both the Association of British Insurers ABI and Research shareholders with this report.
Committee and the full Board for their consideration and Recommendations Electronic Voting RREV to discuss the comment.
review of share based remuneration schemes and the proposed 38 Corporate Governance Report continued Key elements of the Group's system of internal control during Selected Executive Directors also sit on the operating The Board meets regularly and reviews the Group's overall 2005 were: subsidiary and associate boards, including those of the results against plan and the previous year: forecasts are overseas operations.
These boards and their associated regularly updated.
Clear responsibilities are given to The Audit Committee and the Board have reconsidered the committees also meet regularly and have formal reporting operational and financial managers for the maintenance of need for an Internal Audit Function and KPMG were structures.
Directors of operating companies are closely effective financial controls and the production of accurate appointed on 1 November 2005 to serve as the Company's involved in the day-to-day business of their respective and timely financial management information.
internal auditors on a global basis.
operations, thus facilitating the prompt identification of business risks and appropriate action.
There is a formal policy and procedure available to all The Audit Committee and the Board reviewed the key risks employees who are concerned about possible impropriety, facing the Group and the likely impact of these risks.
Monitoring systems are in place to control both financial financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure that and operational risks, where appropriate.
action is taken without fear of victimisation or reprisal.
The Board delegated to the ESC responsibility for regularly assessing and reviewing risks and controls and for The ESC and the boards of the main operating subsidiaries Going Concern undertaking the specific annual assessment of the system's regularly monitor changes in the business environment After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable effectiveness for consideration by the Board.
The ESC and competition facing the main areas of the business.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue meets before each Board meeting and consists of the in operational existence for the forseeable future.
For this Group Chief Executive, the Group Financial Controller and There is a comprehensive system for planning and reporting reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the Chairmen of Savills Commercial Limited, Savills L&P the performance of each business unit.
Limited and Savills - Asia Pacific.
39 100 Park Lane, London W1, Hammerson plc's corporate headquarters, sold on behalf of Grosvenor and Hammerson plc as a private residence, guide price 40m 40 Maperton House, Maperton, Somerset 'Best Country House sold this year as voted by Country Life readers' 41 Remuneration Report 42
