St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 37 Corporate governance report St. Modwen is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The board of directors exercises effective control over the group and its activities, recognising its responsibilities to shareholders and other interested parties.
The procedures for applying these principles within the group are set out below.
This should be read in conjunction with the directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 44.
Throughout the year ended 30th November 2005 the company has complied with the Code subject to the following explanations.
Each of these has been carefully considered and agreed by the full board.
The Code asks the board to identify each non-executive director it considers to be independent.
Of the six non-executive directors at the end of 2005, the board considers Mary Francis, Ian Menzies-Gow, Paul Rigg, Christopher Roshier and John Salmon to be fully independent.
The Code seeks an explanation for the determination of independence in certain circumstances, including if a nonexecutive has served for longer than nine years.
Christopher Roshier has been a non-executive director for eighteen years, but the board is satisfied that he maintains an independent and rigorous approach to all its business and accordingly considers him to be independent.
At a time when the non-executive membership of the board is being strengthened and the majority of non-executives are relatively new, the board considers that Christopher Roshiers depth of knowledge and experience contribute strongly to its effectiveness.
In accordance with the Code, he is standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, but will cease to chair the audit and remuneration committees after the 2006 Annual General Meeting and will step down from these committees at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The board recognises that Simon Clarke does not meet the criteria for a fully independent director under the Code, although his position as a representative of the Clarke and Leavesley families, who together hold 51.4m shares 42.5% in the companys equity, gives him a very strong interest in challenging and scrutinising management to secure excellent performance from the company.
The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The board currently comprises five non-executives whom it determines to be independent: one non-executive Simon Clarke who is not deemed fully independent under the Code but who as explained above has a strong interest as a shareholder representative in challenging and scrutinising management: and four executive members including the chairman.
The object sought by the Code that no individual or group of individuals can dominate the boards decision-making is thus achieved.
The Code recommends that a majority of the members of the Nominations Committee be independent non-executive directors.
During the year the Nominations Committee consisted of the Chairman and Christopher Roshier.
The Nominations Committee has been reconstituted in 2006 and its composition is now in accordance with the Code.
The Code recommends that all members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees be independent non-executive directors.
Each of these committees comprises all the non-executive members of the board.
As explained above, Simon Clarke is not a fully independent director under the Code, but the board considers that its discussions benefit from the involvement of all the nonexecutive directors in the preparatory detailed scrutiny which takes place in these committees.
As also noted above, Simon Clarke has a strong interest in challenging and monitoring managements performance.
The Code recommends that a chief executive should not go on to be chairman of the same company.
As explained in last years report, the board recommended the appointment of former chief executive, Anthony Glossop, as chairman of the company.
This was endorsed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2004.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are carefully differentiated and set out in job descriptions agreed by the board.
The Chief Executive is wholly responsible for the profitability of the company and its internal operations.
The executive Chairman, in addition to his normal role as chairman, supports the chief executive in key external business relationships, on major projects, and in matters affecting the companys reputation and integrity.
Board composition and committees The composition of the board provides an appropriate blend of experience and qualifications, and the number of non-executives provides a strong base for ensuring appropriate corporate governance of the company.
The board meets formally 11 times a year and its decisions are implemented by the executive directors.
Every director attended all 11 meetings in the year, except for James Shaw resigned in April 2005 5, Mary Francis appointed in June 2005 5, and John Salmon appointed in October 2005 2.
All board meetings during the year were fully attended by the directors at that time.
The Chairman and the non-executives also met during the year without the executive directors being present.
Christopher Roshier is the senior independent director.
He is available for consultation by shareholders, whenever appropriate.
The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
It is intended that appointments will be for an initial term of three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement.
Prior to each non-executive offering himself to the members for re-election, his reappointment must be confirmed by the Chairman in consultation with the remainder of the board.
James Shaw did not offer himself for re-election as a non-executive director at the AGM in April 2005.
He had accepted an external appointment which could possibly have led to a future conflict of interest and in the interests of good corporate governance it was mutually felt appropriate that he should step down.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office during normal business hours, and at the AGM.
The companys Articles of Association provide that all directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
In addition, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders after their initial appointment.
38 Corporate governance report continued The board is supplied with timely and relevant information regarding the business, through regular monthly and ad hoc reports, through site visits and presentations from members of the management team and by meetings with key partners.
Where appropriate, the company provides the resources to enable directors to update and upgrade their knowledge.
Through the company secretary, the board is informed of corporate governance issues.
The criteria used for evaluating individual executive directors performance are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Individual non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The performance of the board as a whole is assessed in the context of the companys achievement of its strategic objectives and total shareholder return targets and, as set out below, its effectiveness has been recently reviewed by an independent consultant.
Feedback on the company is sought through external surveys from shareholders, analysts and other professionals within the investment community following the regular briefings, presentations and site visits undertaken by the company.
This feedback is made available to the whole board.
In support of the principles of good corporate governance, the board has appointed the following committees, all of which have formal terms of reference which are available for inspection by shareholders and are posted on the companys website.
a Remuneration Committee The composition and function of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 44.
The Remuneration Committee met formally once during the year, which meeting was attended by all members.
b Audit Committee The Audit Committee is currently chaired by Christopher Roshier and, as explained above, comprises all of the non-executive directors.
Christopher Roshier will be retiring as chairman of the committee at the conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meeting although, in order to provide continuity, he will remain a member of the committee for a further 12 months.
He will be replaced as chairman of the committee by John Salmon who has recent and relevant financial experience.
Three meetings were held during the year and additional meetings may be requested by either the auditors or the non-executive directors.
All meetings were attended by all then current members of the committee.
The finance director attends these meetings but the committee also meets without executive directors being present and has private sessions with the auditors.
The committee has direct access to the auditors.
The Audit Committees functions include: ensuring that appropriate accounting systems and financial controls are in operation and that the companys financial statements comply with statutory and other requirements: receiving reports from, and consulting with, the external auditors: reviewing the interim and annual results and reports to shareholders, and considering any matters raised by the auditors: considering the appropriateness of the accounting policies of the company used in preparing its financial statements: monitoring the progress of the company in preparing for the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards: monitoring the scope, cost-effectiveness and objectivity of the audit: monitoring the companys policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditors: making an annual assessment of the external auditors and recommending, or not, their reappointment: considering the need for an internal audit function: and reviewing whistle-blowing arrangements within the company.
The committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is that, whilst it is appropriate and cost effective for the external auditors to provide tax compliance and tax planning services to the group, other services should only be provided where alternative providers do not exist or where it is cost-effective or in the groups interest for the external auditors to provide such services.
In all cases the provision of non-audit services is carefully monitored by, and subject to the prior approval of, the committee.
The external auditors would not be invited to provide any non-audit services where it was felt that this could conflict with their independence or objectivity.
Such services would include the provision of internal audit and management consulting services.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the need to establish an internal audit function, but continues to believe that in a company of its size, where close control over operations is exercised by the executive directors and given the nature of the groups internal control system, the benefits likely to be gained would be outweighed by the costs of establishing such a function.
c Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee was reconstituted in 2006 and now comprises the Chairman as chairman of the committee, Mary Francis, Ian Menzies-Gow, Paul Rigg and John Salmon.
Prior to this it comprised the Chairman and the senior independent director.
For the appointment of new non-executive directors during the year, a detailed specification was drawn up and agreed with all board members setting out the required skills and background from which it was felt a new director should be drawn.
Soundings were then taken to identify suitable candidates and since this process resulted in the identification of suitable candidates unconnected to the company or its directors it was decided not to proceed with using a search agency or open advertising.
Recommendations were made by the Nominations Committee to the board for the appointment of Mary Francis and John Salmon.
The committee met formally twice during the year, both meetings being fully attended.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 39 Board effectiveness The Code recommends that the board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance.
A formal evaluation, facilitated by an external assessor, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, was undertaken during the year.
This review comprised feedback from questionnaires, individual discussions and board observation, resulting in a board discussion paper and action plan.
The principal findings of the review were that the board functions well as a team, with high levels of trust and respect amongst new and existing members, and an ability to deal capably with change.
Financial documentation and controls have been upgraded, and recent improvements have been made in the area of board and committee independence and composition, board agendas, shareholder communication and corporate governance.
Three areas for board focus were identified: maximising board contribution: succession planning: and risk analysis.
These are being addressed during the first half of 2006.
Risk management and internal control The board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the identification and mitigation of risks and the development and maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control, which are discussed in detail in the Community, Environmental and Social Responsibility section of this report.
During the period under review the directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, through the production of a detailed report which covered: the groups control environment: the manner in which key business risks are identified: the adequacy of information systems and control procedures: and the manner in which any required corrective action is to be taken.
The groups key internal controls are centred on comprehensive monthly reporting from all activities which includes a detailed portfolio analysis, development progress reviews, management accounts and a comparison of committed expenditure against available facilities.
These matters are reported to the board monthly, with reasons for any significant variances from budget.
Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the board and revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis.
There are clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure, purchases and sales of development and investment properties, contracts and commitments and there is a formal schedule of matters, including major investment and development decisions and strategic matters, that are reserved for board approval.
Formal policies and procedures are in place covering all elements of employment, the construction process, health and safety, and IT.
The companys IT policies have been developed in co-operation with the Federation Against Software Theft.
Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors continue, however, to strive to ensure that internal control and risk management are further embedded into the operations of the business by dealing with areas for improvement as they are identified.
Shareholder relations The executive directors have a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts at which the companys strategy and most recently reported performance are explained and questions and comments made are relayed to the whole board.
Annual visits are also arranged to sites of particular interest or significance to assist investors understanding of the companys business.
The companys Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
In addition to the usual period for questions which is made available for shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, Christopher Roshier, the chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, will be available to answer appropriate questions.
Any matters of concern regarding the company are discussed by the senior independent director with shareholders or appropriate corporate governance bodies and comments are fed back by him to the whole board.
Copies of all press releases, investor presentations and Annual Reports are posted on the companys website www.
co. uk, together with additional details of major projects, key financial information and company background.
To simplify and encourage participation in voting on resolutions at our Annual General Meeting, the company provides the opportunity to vote electronically through CREST for further details see page 67. Business standards The company does not condone any form of corrupt behaviour in business dealings and has disciplinary procedures in place to deal with any illegal or inappropriate activities by employees.
