14 Corporate governance statement Introduction The groups corporate governance framework is aimed at ensuring an alignment of interests between shareholders and company management.
Within this framework, there is a clear separation of roles and responsibilities.
The functions of governance are undertaken by the groups shareholders and by the board of directors who act on their behalf while the functions of management are delegated to the groups Chief Executive and his management team.
Role played by Shareholders Shareholders play a key role in the groups governance by electing the directors, by monitoring and rewarding their performance, and by engaging in constructive dialogue with the board and senior management.
All directors are subject to re-election to the board every three years, with at least one third of the board retiring by rotation each year.
The biographies of each director can be found on page 2.
We are putting into place new mechanisms to facilitate easier voting by our shareholders and, for the 2006 Annual General Meeting, we shall: enable all shareholders to vote electronically either via Crest or directly with our Registrars: and include a vote withheld box on the Annual General Meeting proxy voting forms as recommended by the Shareholder Voting Working Group.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting on 25th April 2006 and will be available to meet shareholders.
Outside the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman of the board, Christopher Kemball, is responsible for ensuring that there is ongoing and effective communication with shareholders.
Philip Rogerson, the Senior Independent Director, is also available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels with the Chief Executive, Finance Director or Chairman has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
To that end, both individuals have made themselves available, when requested, for meetings with investors on issues relating to the groups governance and strategy.
The issues discussed at these meetings were reported to the board and copies of relevant correspondence were circulated to all directors.
Over 50 separate meetings have been held in 2005 with major shareholders in the UK, the US, Sweden and the Netherlands by either or both of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
As expected, these meetings have focused primarily on the groups trading operations and immediate prospects.
Following Roger Dyes appointment as Chief Executive in May 2005, major shareholders also wanted to discuss the continuity of the groups strategy.
Where significant views were expressed during these meetings they were summarised and circulated to all directors.
In December 2005 an operational review by the executive including divisional management and site visit took place in the UK for an invited group of financial analysts and shareholders.
Positive feedback was received following this event and it will be repeated in 2006, most likely at a location within Continental Europe.
Role of the board and its relationship to Executive Management The principal role of the board is to set the broad parameters within which the group seeks to further the interests of its shareholders and to monitor the performance of the executives to whom it delegates the management of the business.
However, although it does not interfere in the day-to-day activities of the groups senior management, the board does have a formal schedule of matters that are reserved for its own decision.
This schedule was reviewed and approved in May 2005 following the appointment of the new Chairman and new Chief Executive and includes, among other matters: the establishment of the groups overall strategy: major changes to the groups capital, corporate or management structure: major investments, capital projects and contracts: major changes to the groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management: changes to board structure and membership: determination of the remuneration policy for directors and other senior executives: the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive: approval of the terms of reference for all board committees: and approval of the groups Ethics Policy and its policies on corporate social responsibility including health and safety.
The Chairman of the board, Christopher Kemball, is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring a challenging and constructive relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Between board meetings there is regular interaction between the Group Chief Executive and the Chairman and, where necessary, with other board members.
Prior to each board meeting an agenda, together with supporting papers, is circulated to directors to ensure they are supplied with all the information required.
Included with these papers are detailed monthly accounts, together with reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Managing Directors of Berendsen and Sunlight.
As part of this process, the board also reviewed and approved the groups 2006 Budget.
After each board meeting, there is a comprehensive follow-up procedure to ensure that major actions agreed are completed.
Since their respective appointments in May 2005, the Chief Executive, Roger Dye, and the Finance Director, Kevin Quinn, have ensured that the board is kept fully aware of business issues and prospects throughout the group.
Both are Directors of Sunlight and attend monthly Sunlight board meetings.
They are also Directors of Sophus Berendsen AS and, as well as attending monthly Berendsen board meetings, they attend individual Berendsen country board meetings by rotation, thereby meeting regularly the management teams of each national operation.
The key issues raised at these meetings are then brought to the attention of the board.
The senior management teams of both Sunlight and Berendsen have also met with the board twice each since May 2005.
These full day sessions have been very comprehensive and have given board members detailed insight into the operations of the Sunlight and Berendsen businesses, their challenges and opportunities, and demonstrate the free ow of information and communication between the board and senior management within the group.
Similar presentations have already been scheduled for 2006 and it is also the boards intention to review selected key business topics with senior divisional management present at regular board meetings.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 15 Composition of the board Details of changes to the board are set out in the Directors Report on page 22.
During the last two years there have been significant changes made to the board including the retirement of the former Chief Executive and Chairman on 30th April 2005, the appointment of their replacements, two new Non-Executive Directors and a new Finance Director.
In line with the revised provisions of the Combined Code, the board now comprises two Executive and four Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
Their biographies reect a breadth of skills, knowledge and business experience and the board considers that its programme of renewal is now complete.
Independence of the board In December 2005 the Nomination Committee performed a thorough review of the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee concluded that all the Non-Executive Directors remain independent from management and provide a strong independent element on the board, being free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
To safeguard their independence, directors are not entitled to vote on any matter in which they have a material personal interest unless the directors unanimously decide otherwise and, where necessary, directors are required to absent themselves from a meeting of the board while such a matter is being discussed.
The company has also purchased insurance to cover its directors and ofcers against the costs of defending themselves if legal proceedings were taken against them and in respect of damages resulting from an unsuccessful defence of any such proceedings, unless the director or officer were found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
To strengthen the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and to enable them to more freely discuss the performance of the groups Management, the Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year without the executives present.
The independence of the directors is further supported by the work of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is the responsibility of the board as a whole.
The Company Secretary, who is also secretary to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, ensures that board procedures are complied with and provides advice on corporate governance and regulatory compliance.
All directors have unfettered access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure by which directors can, where necessary for the discharge of their duties, obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The board has also determined that any Non-Executive Director who has served more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
John Burns will, therefore, be subject to re-election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
The board has concluded that, following a formal performance evaluation, his performance as a Non-Executive Director continues to be effective.
He contributes signicantly as a director through his individual skills and his considerable knowledge and experience of the company.
In particular, as a serving Managing Director of a listed company, his skills and expertise are complementary to the other Non-Executive Directors.
He also continues to demonstrate strong independence in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board has concluded that, despite his length of tenure, there is no association with management that could compromise his independence and that therefore he remains independent.
Directors induction and training During 2005, the induction programmes received by the new board members, Kevin Quinn and Per Utnegaard, included components tailored to their responsibilities.
In the case of Kevin Quinn, this included visits to most of the countries in which the group has operations, as well as introductory sessions with the groups advisers, auditors and bankers.
Per Utnegaard attended meetings with the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other members of the senior management team.
The board has recently reviewed and approved a formal Induction programme for all new Non-Executive Directors covering matters such as the operations and activities of the group, the groups key financial and non-financial risks, the role of the board and the matters reserved for its own decision, and the responsibilities of the groups board committees.
The Chairman of the board is also responsible for ensuring that all Non-Executive Directors receive training in order that they can appropriately perform their duties.
At the Non-Executive Directors meeting in November 2005, any further training needs were discussed and appropriate actions put in place.
Per Utnegaard, who joined as a Non-Executive Director during 2005, has already attended a number of technical Non-Executive Director training courses.
As part of their ongoing development, Executive Directors are permitted to take up an external board appointment subject to the agreement of the board.
Executive Directors retain any fees received in respect of outside appointments.
Roger Dye is currently a Non-Executive Director of Nestor Healthcare, a company which works in UK public sector healthcare operations, an area of interest to the groups operations.
Board and committee evaluations In the last quarter of 2005 the board carried out a performance evaluation of the board, its three Committees and all of its individual directors.
This was co-ordinated by the Chairman, with whom each of the directors met.
The evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by Philip Rogerson, the Senior Independent Director, through consultation with the other directors and the Chief Executive.
The results of the evaluation were initially discussed at the NonExecutive Directors Meeting on 22nd November 2005 and then presented to the board on 15th December 2005.
The board has identied a number of actions from this evaluation that it has agreed to implement.
They include that further interaction with divisional management through site visits would be desirable especially in Continental Europe and that there is a need to improve succession planning amongst senior management.
Attendance at board and committee meetings The board requires all directors to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the board met 11 times during 2005.
One of these meetings was the strategy review meeting during October 2005.
In addition, as referred to above, the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors on 22nd November 2005.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 16 Corporate governance statement continued The three principal committees of the board are the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The terms of reference of these committees are set by the board and are available for inspection either from our group website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
The membership of these Committees, details of which are set out on page 2, is composed entirely of Non-Executive Directors with the exception of the Nomination Committee upon which Roger Dye serves.
The attendance of all individual directors at board and committee meetings for the year ended 31st December 2005 is detailed below.
During 2005, all current directors attended all board and committee meetings held since the date they were appointed with the exception of Per Utnegaard and John Burns who did not attend the Nomination Committee on 10th February 2005 although they provided their views beforehand to the Chairman.
Board meetings attendance Directors attendance at board and committee meetings convened in the year ended 31st December 2005 was as follows: Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Current directors Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Executive directors I R Dye 11 11 1 1 K Quinn 9 9 Non-executive directors C R M Kemball 11 11 117733 J D Burns 11 11 447732 P G Rogerson 11 11 447733 P H Utnegaard 11 11 447732 Former directors J C Ivey 2 2 1 1 N W Benson 2 2 1 1 1 1 P E Smeeth 3 2 The number of meetings Held is dened as the number during 2005 that a director could attend either prior to his resignation as a director or subsequent to his appointment.
Report of the Audit Committee Composition The Committee met four times during 2005 and from 1st May 2005 comprised Philip Rogerson Committee Chairman, Per Utnegaard and John Burns.
Neil Benson and Christopher Kemball Committee Chairman to 30th April 2005 resigned from the Committee on 30th April 2005.
From 1st May 2005 all members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors and are considered by the board to be independent.
Representation from the external auditors, the Finance Director and the Group Internal Audit Manager attend each meeting at the request of the Committee Chairman.
At least once a year, the Committee meets with the external auditors without executive management present.
From time to time, the Committee Chairman also meets in private session with the Group Internal Audit Manager without any other member of management being present.
The board considers that the committee has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its duties.
In particular, Philip Rogerson is a Chartered Accountant and from 1992 to 1998 he was the Finance Director and then the Deputy Chairman of BG plc.
Role and Authority The Committees principal function is to enable the board to monitor the integrity of the groups financial reports and its system of internal controls: to monitor the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: and to manage the relationship with the groups external auditors.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and approved by the board on 27th May 2005 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Activities in 2005 During the last twelve months the Committee has: monitored the integrity of the companys financial statements and 2005 preliminary and interim announcements having reviewed the significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in them: at an additional Audit Committee meeting on 27th June 2005, reviewed the groups transition to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, including the groups accounting policies under IFRS, and reviewed the announcement to be made outlining the impact of adopting IFRS on the reported 2004 results: kept under review the effectiveness of the companys internal controls and risk management systems: monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: approved the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors, assessed their independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of audit processes: required that, with the exception of tax services, all non-audit services to be performed by the companys auditors that exceed pre-set thresholds be pre-approved by the Committee: and reviewed the arrangements in place for staff to raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports on the Committees activities at the following board meeting.
Report of the Remuneration Committee Full details of the Committees composition, role and authority and activities are set out in the report on directors remuneration on pages 18 to 21, which is subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25th April 2006.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005 17 Report of the Nomination Committee Composition The Committee met three times during 2005 and from 1st May 2005 comprised Christopher Kemball Committee Chairman, Philip Rogerson, Per Utnegaard, John Burns and Roger Dye.
Neil Benson and John Ivey resigned from the Committee on 30th April 2005.
Three of the current five members of the Committee are regarded by the board as independent.
Role and Authority The Committee leads the process for board appointments and makes recommendations to the board.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee were updated and approved by the board on 27th May 2005 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Activities in 2005 During 2005 the Committees main activities have involved the selection and appointment of a new Chief Executive and Finance Director.
For both positions, external consultants were used and the Committee interviewed a number of potential candidates.
In view of the number of changes to the board and the need for continuity, no external process was commissioned for the selection of Christopher Kemball as Chairman during the year.
In addition, during the year the Committee has: evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board: assessed thoroughly the extent to which current Non-Executive Directors remain independent and, in particular, the independence of John Burns who has served on the board for more than nine years: considered the membership of the boards sub-committees: and reviewed succession planning for senior executives.
As Chief Executive, Roger Dye is responsible for ensuring that the operating companies boards are structured appropriately and that policies are in place to ensure suitable candidates, both internal and external, can be attracted should vacancies arise.
During 2005, new appointments were required in the UK and Germany.
Combined Code compliance statement During 2005 the company undertook a thorough review of board procedures and compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The company complied throughout the year ended 31st December 2005 with the provisions of the Combined Code with the exception of the following: although letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors do require them to confirm that they will make adequate time available to full their duties, not all of these letters specically set out the expected time commitment.
All Non-Executive Directors have, however, confirmed that during 2006 they will make adequate time available Ref:A.
4.4 : and the groups whistleblowing system was only implemented throughout the group, with the exception of France, during the year.
Internal control review The board has responsibility for establishing and maintaining the groups system of internal control.
The system of internal control is regularly reviewed by the board.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control as required by the Combined Code which have been in place throughout the year ended 31st December 2005 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts are as follows: Open culture The group considers that it operates a risk aware culture with an open style of communication.
This allows problems and issues to be identied early, in order that appropriate action can be quickly taken and any impact on the business therefore minimised.
Continuing process of risk identication A continuing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
Throughout the year, regular subsidiary management and subsidiary board meetings allow the organisation to recognise evolving risks, respond quickly and implement procedures for reporting any significant control weaknesses.
Details of any significant issues or control weaknesses identied are communicated by the Chief Executive or Finance Director to the board.
This process includes the maintenance of a formal Group Risk Register which is currently reviewed on an annual basis by the Audit Committee prior to its consideration by the board.
Reports on internal control The board and Audit Committee requested, received and reviewed reports from executive and senior management, its advisors, internal and external audit.
Whistleblowing During 2005 the group has implemented a system by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The system is now operational throughout the group, except France as a result of data protection issues.
Due to the diversity of our workforce the system operates in 22 languages.
Procedures are in place to ensure issues raised are addressed in a condential manner.
The Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit Committee bi-annually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
Annual assessment Executive management presented reports to the Audit Committee and board in December 2005 and February 2006 to assist the board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls.
The board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys internal controls in accordance with the Turnbull Guidelines.
By order of the board David Lawler Secretary 24th February 2006 The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2005
