"8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for the year ended 31 December 2005 During the course of the year, the Company complied except as specifically set out below, with the principles of best practice set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the ""Combined Code""."
The terms of reference for each such Officer Mr N A Porter, a Chief Financial Officer Board of directors committee which are published on the Companys Mr M C Allan and a Human Resources Director The Companys corporate governance procedures website are reviewed annually by the relevant Dr A Lee, as well as the Chairman Mr G K provide that the full Board of Directors shall meet committee, as is the effectiveness of each such Maddrell and three Non-Executive Directors at least six times a year.
Set out below are sections describing Messrs N P Hall, S R H Beevor and R Walker.
nine meetings of the full Board, all of which were the work of the committees in discharging their Mr Walker was appointed as an additional Nonattended by each of the Directors then appointed, respective responsibilities.
Executive Director on 3 November 2005. other than two meetings which Mr S R H Beevor was unable to attend and three meetings that Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered Dr A Lee was unable to attend.
Dr Lees by the Board to be independent of management Audit committee non-attendance at two of the meetings was due and free from any personal, business or other During the year, the Audit Committee comprised to family illness.
relationship with the Group, save for the receipt Messrs N P Hall, G K Maddrell, S R H Beevor and of Directors fees and interests in shares of The Board receives regular reports from each of from 3 November 2005, Mr R Walker.
the Groups operating divisions but itself retains full acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee and effective control of the Groups activities, with As a company which, during the course of the throughout the year.
Mr Hall is a Chartered a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved year, became a member of the FTSE 350, the Accountant and was, until February 2003, finance for decision by the full Board.
In particular, the full Company meets the requirement of the Combined director of Arcadia Group plc formerly The Burton Board sets the strategic objectives, business plan Code that at least half of its Board, excluding the Group plc.
and annual budgets for the Group, with major Chairman, is made up of independent nonAlthough the principles of best practice set out in investment decisions also requiring Board executive directors.
However, in view of the size of the Combined Code state that all members of the approval.
However, operational responsibility is the Board, no Director has been designated as Audit Committee should be independent nondelegated to the Groups Operations Board, which senior independent non-executive director and, in executive directors, it had been agreed that, in view comprises the Executive Directors from the full that respect, the Company does not comply with of the overall size of the Board, Mr G K Maddrell Board, together with representatives from each of the Combined Code.
However, the Companys being Chairman of the Board should, in addition to the Groups operating divisions namely Non-Executive Directors are, on request, available Messrs Hall, Beevor and Walker, sit on the Audit Development, Hospitality Services and UNITE as a conduit for communication to the Board.
As a result, the Company did not Modular Solutions.
Each of the Executive Directors has a written comply with the Combined Code in respect of the Terms of reference have been set by the Board for service contract, whilst each of the Non-Executive composition of the Audit Committee.
However, with its various committees and for the Chairman and Directors has a formal letter of engagement.
effect from 14 March 2006 Mr Maddrell stood the Chief Executive Officer.
The terms of reference Executive Directors have rolling contracts of down as a member of the Audit Committee.
for the Chairman and the Chief Executive are such employment with twelve months notice periods, During the year, the Audit Committee met on four as to clearly establish the division of responsibility whilst Non-Executive Directors are appointed by occasions, all of which meetings were attended by between the two roles.
In addition, all Directors the full Board for a term not exceeding three years.
have access to the advice and services of the The letters of appointment relating to the NonCompany Secretary, whilst procedures are in place Executive Directors are available for inspection at The Audit Committee meets with the Chief Financial allowing for individual Directors to take the Companys registered office during normal Officer and with the external auditors and reviews independent legal advice.
A programme for the business hours and for the 15 minutes prior to and the annual accounts and the preliminary and training of Directors has been put in place.
during the Annual General Meeting.
interim financial results announcements prior to submission to the Board.
The Audit Committee also The current Board complement consists of three The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, a reviews compliance with accounting standards, the Executive Directors, namely a Chief Executive Remuneration Committee and a Nominations scope and extent of the external audit programme and the appointment, independence and 24 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 25 remuneration of the auditors.
The chairman of the Maddrell was independent on appointment and like to see appointed in order that a recruitment Audit Committee reports to the Board on matters continues to meet the independence criteria.
As a and selection process can be undertaken.
The discussed at meetings of the Audit Committee.
result, the Company does not comply with the Committee then appoints an independent search Combined Code in respect of the composition of and selection agency to approach potential During the course of the year, the Audit Committee the Remuneration Committee.
candidates who it identifies as meeting the reviewed the need for an internal audit function specification supplied by the Nominations within the Group.
The conclusion of that review The Committee determines remuneration policy Committee.
Initial interviews are conducted by the was that, in view of the existing controls in place and advises the Board accordingly.
In particular, search agency, which then compiles a short list of including a Hospitality Services compliance audit the Committee makes recommendations regarding appropriate candidates to be interviewed by the regime and the size of the Group, a Group internal the terms of employment of executive directors Nominations Committee.
A recommendation of a audit function was not required.
However, the and senior managers, including terms of proposed candidate is then made following those position is being kept under review.
remuneration, the award of share options, long second round interviews.
Following a term incentive plan awards and other incentives.
The Audit Committee has established a formal recommendation from the Committee for the Mr N A Porter is invited to attend meetings of the policy with regard to the Companys appointment appointment of a candidate to the Board, the Remuneration Committee but takes no part in the of the external audit firm for the supply of nonChairman may be requested by the Board to discussions concerning his own remuneration and audit services.
In addition, the Audit Committee approach the nominated candidate to agree terms does not attend those parts of the meetings of the reviews any potential threat to the objectivity and for the appointment according to the criteria set out Committee that consider that issue.
The Directors independence of the external auditor, including, in in the Groups remuneration policies.
Remuneration Report is set out on pages 28 to 31. particular, those potential threats identified by the Consideration of the appointment of an internal Auditing Practices Board in its independence During the course of 2005, five meetings of the candidate to the position of Executive Director will guidelines.
The Committee determines and then Remuneration Committee were held, all of which follow a request from the Chief Executive to the reports to the Board, whether or not it is satisfied were attended by each of the then current Nominations Committee that the appropriate that the independence of the external auditor is not members of the Committee, other than one candidate be considered for nomination.
This will jeopardised, taking into account the external meeting which Mr Hall was unable to attend.
only follow a record of successful achievement in auditors own submissions to the Committee the candidates current role and the gathering of and or the Board.
data from an independent external assessment Nominations committee During the course of the year, the only non-audit centre that the candidate will have been asked to The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr G K services provided to the Group related to tax attend.
At that centre, the proposed candidate is Maddrell.
However, the exact composition of the advisory and compliance matters and the assessed in the areas of commercial and strategic Committee is variable, provided that each meeting implementation of IFRS.
ability, leadership: technical ability: ability to build has a majority represented by independent Nonpeer relations: values and behaviours.
During the course of 2005 of those assessments are compared against a three meetings of the Nominations Committee Remuneration committee global norm group of highly performing directors were held each of which was attended by Mr G K and senior managers.
After gathering the During the year, the Remuneration Committee Maddrell, Mr N P Hall and Mr S R H Beevor.
assessment data, the Nominations Committee comprised Mr G K Maddrell who acted as Chairman, interviews the proposed candidate, following which Mr N P Hall, Mr S R H Beevor and The Committee is responsible for making it may recommend his or her appointment to the from 3 November 2005, Mr R Walker.
From recommendations to the Board on any Board.
If the Board accepts the recommendation of 1 January 2006, Mr Beevor assumed the appointment or re-appointment to the Board and at the Committee, it will, through the Chairman and Chairmanship of the Committee in place of Mr senior executive level.
It is also responsible for Chief Executive, invite the proposed candidate to Maddrell who remains a member of the Committee.
ensuring that plans are in place for an orderly join the Board according to terms and conditions of succession of appointments to the Board and at Although the principles of best practice set out in service agreed by the Remuneration Committee.
senior management level, so as to maintain an the Combined Code state that all members of the That follows an external benchmarking of appropriate balance of skills and experience within Remuneration Committee should be independent remuneration for the role.
the Company and on the Board.
non-executive directors, it has been agreed that, For the appointment of external candidates to the in addition to the Groups three independent Following determination by the Board that a new role of Executive Director, the process outlined Non-Executive Directors, Mr G K Maddrell being Non-Executive Director should be appointed, the above in relation to Non-Executive Directors is Chairman of the Board should also sit on the Nominations Committee draws up a personal and followed, with the addition that such external Remuneration Committee on the basis that Mr professional profile of the ideal candidate it would candidates are, as is the case with internal 25 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued prioritised.
As a result of this system, the Board candidates, required to attend an external full Board review meetings, which are attended by is satisfied with the high level controls in place, assessment centre prior to final interviews by the all members of the Board.
although all areas of the business are kept Nominations Committee.
under review and new controls introduced The process for evaluating the performance of the as appropriate.
Internal control Executive Directors flows from the setting of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups overall business strategy for the Group.
Once system of internal control.
However, such a system agreed by the Board, the Executive Directors Social responsibility is designed to achieve business objectives and can produce divisional strategies and milestone action The Company has formal procedures for only provide reasonable and not absolute plans designed to deliver the agreed overall considering the significance to its business of assurance against material mis-statement.
Such strategies and plans, which are social, environmental and ethical SEE matters, challenged and may be revised prior to being The provisions of the Combined Code in respect of which are considered as part of the Groups risk ratified by the Board, then form the basis of internal controls require that directors review all management system referred to above in relation personal objectives that are set for each of the controls including operational, compliance and risk to Business Risk Assessment.
The results of the Executive Directors.
The personal objectives of the management, as well as financial control.
"Through benchmarking reviews which form part of that Chief Executive are agreed between him and the reports from the Groups Operations Board, the system which are carried out by the Groups Chairman as part of the annual Performance Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Operations Board, are reported to and considered Development Programme ""PDP"" cycle."
The other Groups system of internal controls for the period by the full Board on a six monthly basis.
SEE risks Executive Directors agree their objectives with the covered by the annual report and accounts.
and opportunities faced by the Group are Chief Executive, again as part of the PDP process.
The Company has an established framework of addressed on pages 16 and 17 under the heading Progress in achieving objectives is monitored at internal controls which, amongst other things, Market Review.
least monthly through one to one meetings includes the following: between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and In light of the above, the Board believes that it has between the Chief Executive and the other in place appropriate procedures to identify and Financial reporting Executive Directors.
Progress reviews are also assess the significant risks to the Companys short carried out at Board level through the review of key The Group has a comprehensive budgeting and long term value arising from SEE matters, as performance indicators.
system with an annual business plan approved well as opportunities to enhance value that may by the Board.
Operating results and cash flows arise from an appropriate response.
In that respect, Formal performance measurement is undertaken are reported on monthly and compared the Board considers that it receives adequate through half year reviews of progress made against budget.
Forecasts are reviewed information to make those assessments and that against milestones, key performance indicators throughout the year and revised as necessary.
the Company has in place effective measures for and other personal objectives.
The annual PDP The Company reports to shareholders on a managing significant risks.
Account is taken of SEE review of performance takes place shortly after the half yearly basis.
matters in relation to the training of Directors.
That review considers performance against objectives, including key performance Investment appraisal indicators, and the Groups values and behaviours.
Investor relations The key performance indicators, which include The Company has clearly defined guidelines financial performance and customer and employee The Executive Directors have a programme of for capital expenditure.
These include annual satisfaction, also form the basis of the bonus meetings with institutional shareholders and budgets, detailed appraisal and review formulae as set out in the Remuneration Report.
Feedback from such meetings regarding procedures, levels of authority and due shareholder opinion is provided to the Board as a diligence requirements where investment or The performance of the Non-Executive Directors is whole.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors are development properties are being acquired.
reviewed annually by the Chairman, whilst the available to meet with major shareholders if Post investment appraisals are performed for performance of the Chairman is considered requested.
The Companys Annual General Meeting major investments.
annually by the Non-Executive Directors in the provides an opportunity, which the Board absence of the Chairman, in both cases taking encourages, for private investors to communicate Business risk assessment account of the views of the Executive Directors.
The Group has developed a comprehensive The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors risk management system whereby strategic also on an annual basis meet to consider the threats to the business are identified and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its management and control of those threats Committees.
Those meetings are then followed by 26 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 27 state whether they have been prepared in Going concern accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: After making enquiries, the Directors have a and reasonable expectation that the Group and the prepare the financial statements on the going Company have adequate resources to continue in concern basis unless it is inappropriate to operational existence for the foreseeable future.
presume that the Group and the parent For this reason, they continue to adopt the going company will continue in business.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable Statement of directors accuracy at any time the financial position of the responsibilities in respect of the parent company and enable them to ensure that annual report and accounts and its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general the financial statements responsibility for taking such steps as are The Directors are responsible for preparing the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets annual report and accounts and the Group and of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and parent company financial statements in other irregularities.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare are also responsible for preparing a directors Group and parent company financial statements report, directors remuneration report and the for each financial year.
Under that law they are corporate governance statement that comply with required to prepare the Group financial statements that law and those regulations.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance financial statements on the same basis.
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
The Group and parent company financial Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and statements are required by law and IFRS as dissemination of financial statements may differ adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial from legislation in other jurisdictions.
position of the Group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 27
