Corporate Governance The Company is committed to attaining high standards of Corporate Governance in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code, published in July 2003, and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, where applicable, describes how the Board has applied the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code.
As set out in the Directors Report, effective 26 October 2004 the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of The Berkeley Group plc following implementation of a Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 of the Companies Act 1985.
In this Corporate Governance Report, references to the Company refer to The Berkeley Group Holdings plc from 26 October 2004 onwards and prior to that to The Berkeley Group plc, and references to the Board refer to the Directors, being directors of those companies respectively.
Statement of Compliance The Board considers that it complied throughout the year with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code except that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, does not comprise independent non-executive Directors Provision A3.2.
The Role of the Board The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board as a whole.
The key task of the Board is to formulate strategy and to monitor the operating and financial performance of the Group in pursuit of the Groups strategic long-term objectives.
In particular these include the annual budget, share capital changes, approval of interim and annual results, treasury policy, dividend policy, shareholder distributions, Corporate Governance matters and the maintenance and review of the Groups system of internal control.
Formal Board meetings were held five times during the year under review.
There were no absences from any Board meetings by any Director except that Messrs Greg Fry and David Howell were unable to attend the June 2004 Board meeting and Mrs Victoria Mitchell was unable to attend the April 2005 Board meeting.
In addition the Board scheduled additional meetings in relation to certain corporate projects including the strategic review of the business and the Court Approved Scheme of Arrangement.
In addition to the formal meetings of the whole Board, the Non-executive directors meet with the Group Chairman in the months not covered by a Board meeting.
The Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director are invited to attend these meetings in part, to provide an update on the business activities of the Group.
The Non-executive Directors meet at least annually without the Group Chairman present, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Mr Tony Palmer.
From January 2005, formal meetings of the whole Board have been increased to six per annum scheduled on a bi-monthly basis with bi-monthly meetings of the Non-Executive Directors in the months that the Board does not meet.
Board papers and agendas are sent out a week prior to each meeting, thus allowing sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
In addition, the Board is supplied with comprehensive management information on a regular basis, including on a monthly basis, a detailed Group management accounts pack that reports the actual and forecast financial performance in addition to other key performance indicators across the Group.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures Directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, which they may incur in carrying out their duties.
The Board and Directors The Board has remained unchanged during the year and comprises eight directors including the Group Chairman, four further Executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors Messrs. Tony Palmer and David Howell and Mrs Victoria Mitchell have skills and experience complementary to the Executive Directors and offer independent judgement when required and remain independent.
Brief biographies appear on pages 20 to 21.
The Group Chairman and the Executive Directors do not hold any Non-executive Director appointments or commitments required to be disclosed under the Combined Code.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Managing Director are separately held and there are clear written guidelines to support the division of responsibility between them.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of Board and shareholder meetings and for ensuring that each Director contributes to effective decision-making.
The Group Managing Director has day-to-day executive responsibility for the running of the Groups businesses.
His role is to develop and deliver the strategy to enable the Group to meet it objectives.
co. uk Mr Tony Palmer was appointed to the Board on 1 January 1998, on his retirement as Chief Executive of Taylor Woodrow plc, and was appointed Senior Independent Director on 5 December 2003.
Mr Tony Palmer has a wealth of experience and an in depth understanding of the housebuilding and construction sectors.
The unanimous view of the Board is that he remains independent.
Mrs Victoria Mitchell and Mr David Howell were appointed to the Board as Non-executive Directors on 1 May 2002 and 24 February 2004 respectively and it is the unanimous view of the Board that they also are independent.
An induction programme is provided for new Directors, which includes the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on the Group, one to one meetings with all Directors and key staff as well as visits to major sites.
In addition to the induction programme for new Directors, additional ongoing training has been identified as part of the Board Evaluation process, which is tailored to each Director.
All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advisers, at the Companys expense, where specific expertise is required in the course of their duties.
Arrangements are also made for the Non-executive Directors to attend site visits and to meet with the Managing Directors of the operating companies independent of the Executive Directors.
No Executive Director has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or with provisions for predetermined compensation on termination.
New terms of appointment for the Non-executive Directors in line with the Higgs recommended practice were introduced in 2004, renewable annually with one months written notice and are subject to the re-election provisions of the Articles of Association.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share incentive or bonus plans.
A minimum shareholding requirement is set for all Directors.
New Articles of Association of the Company were adopted at the 2004 AGM to take account of recent regulatory and other changes, including the requirement for Directors to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election every three years, in accordance with the Combined Code.
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity of their appointment and thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Since this is the first Annual General Meeting of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc, all Directors are seeking re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Each Executive Directors has a notice period not exceeding 12 months, and each Non-executive Director has a letter of appointment renewable on 1 May each year, subject to one months notice.
At the date of this report, less than half of the Board comprised independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that the skill base, experience and judgement of its Non-executive Directors are more important than the actual numbers on the Board and that the stability of the Board during the year was vital to the success of the strategic review of the business that culminated in the Scheme of Arrangement.
Since the approval of the Scheme of Arrangement the Board has identified a suitable candidate and intends to appoint a further Non-executive Director by the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 25 to 39.
Board evaluation A review of the operation of the Board, its Committees and the skills of the Directors was undertaken during the year.
The process was led by the Group Chairman and Senior Independent Director with the assistance of the Company Secretary and an external consultant.
All Directors completed the wide-ranging appraisal questionnaire and the results were reviewed by the Board in April 2005.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director conducted an evaluation of the Chairman.
The process concluded that the stability of the Board has been the key to the Boards unified success in developing the substantial strategic changes in the year.
The Board Evaluation process has also led the Directors to identify the skill base required by the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director.
Led by the Chairman, attention will be given to any further matters arising from the evaluation process during the forthcoming year.
Board Committees The Board has delegated certain matters to individual executives and to specific Committees of the Board.
The responsibilities of the key Board Committees are described below.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets monthly and reviews the financial and operating performance of all Group divisions and companies.
The Group Managing Director chairs this Committee and other members comprise the Group Chairman, Mr Roger Lewis and Messrs. Tony Carey, Greg Fry and Rob Perrins.
The following three Board Committees operate within clearly defined terms of reference that were refreshed in 2004 pursuant to the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Terms of Reference were added to the pages of the Companys website www.
co. uk in February 2005 and can be downloaded from the section dealing with Investor Relations.
Copies are also available to shareholders on application to the Company Secretary.
co. uk 41 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr David Howell, FCA, and comprises the three independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee met on three occasions during the year with no absences except that Mr Tony Palmer was unable to attend the June 2004 and March 2005 meetings.
The Chairman, Group Finance Director and representatives of the external and internal auditors attend the Committees meetings by invitation.
Mr David Howell, who qualified as a chartered accountant in 1971 and was the Chief Financial Officer and a Main Board Director of lastminute.
com plc until March 2005 is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr David Howell was also Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nestor Healthcare Group plc from 2000 to 2003.
The Committee has formal Terms of Reference which set out its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in Corporate Governance by undertaking the following key responsibilities: Monitoring the integrity of the financial reporting of the Company, including its annual and interim reports and other formal announcements relating to financial performance: Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and disclosure of statements concerning these in the Annual Report: Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, reviewing the scope of the Groups internal audit programme and considering the findings and recommendations of the reports produced from this programme: Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, including appointment, removal and fees, and ensuring the auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and approved the Groups approach to implementing International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Committee has a policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services in order to safeguard auditor independence, with a pre-determined limit above which approval of the Audit Committee is required and identifies certain areas of work from which the auditors are precluded.
Tax and due diligence services are provided by a small number of different firms, including the Groups auditors.
The auditors may be used for such services where their knowledge of the business is such that they are deemed the most appropriate supplier.
Notwithstanding these safeguards, all non-audit work carried out by the auditors is notified to the Audit Committee Chairman on an ongoing basis and formally reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The auditors have open recourse to the Non-executive Directors, should they consider it necessary and there is open dialogue between the auditors and the Chairman of the Audit Committee before each Audit Committee meeting.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Companys policy for executive remuneration and the precise terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 25 to 39.
The Committee is chaired by Mrs Victoria Mitchell and comprises the Non-executive Directors, these being Messrs Tony Palmer and David Howell.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The Committee takes into consideration the recommendations of the Group Chairman, Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director regarding the remuneration of their executive colleagues.
During the year, the Committee met formally on three occasions and there were no absences except that Mr Tony Palmer was unable to attend the March 2005 meeting due to a family bereavement.
In addition approximately 34 meetings were held by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Committees advisers with the other members of the Board and the Companys shareholders and stakeholders, regarding the new Scheme of Arrangement and the introduction of the new 2004 b Long-Term Incentive Plan.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her remuneration.
The Executive Directors decide the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee was primarily established to propose new appointments to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, Mr Roger Lewis save in the event of discussions relating to his own succession with Mr Tony Palmer and Mrs Victoria Mitchell as Independent Non-executive members.
The Committee meets at least two times per annum and at such times as required to carry our the duties of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee met formally on two occasions and there were no absences.
The Board Evaluation process provided a platform for identifying the experience requirements for a new Non-executive Director.
Independent recruitment specialists were also appointed to assist the Committee in the search criteria and the selection process.
co. uk Key risks and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control, which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Directors have reviewed the operation and effectiveness of this system of internal control during the year as part of its year end procedures.
The Group has the following established framework of internal controls: Clear organisational structure The Group operates through autonomous divisions and operating companies, each with its own board.
Operating company boards meet on a weekly basis and divisional boards on a monthly basis, and comprehensive information is prepared for such meetings on a standardised basis to cover all aspects of the business.
Formal reporting lines and delegated levels of authority exist within this structure and review of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout both the operating companies and divisions, and the Group.
Risk assessment Risk reporting is embedded within the ongoing management reporting throughout the Group.
At operating company and divisional level, board meeting agendas and packs are structured around the key risks facing the Group.
These include sales demand risk, production risk build cost and programme, land and planning risk as well as a review of specific site risks.
In addition, there is a formalised process whereby each division produces quarterly risk and control reports that identify significant risks, the potential impact and the actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
These risk reports are reviewed and updated regularly and reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Financial reporting A comprehensive budgeting and real-time forecasting system, covering both profit and cash, operates within the Group.
This enables executive management to view key financial and operating data on a daily basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis more formal reporting up to the Group executive and Board is prepared.
The results of all operating units are reported monthly and compared to budget and forecast.
Policies and procedures Policies and procedures, including operating and financial controls, are detailed in policies and procedures manuals that are refreshed and improved as appropriate.
Training to staff is given where necessary.
Central functions Where appropriate strong central functions, such as Group Legal, Group Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, provide support and consistency to the rest of the group.
In addition, the principal treasury-related risks, decisions and control processes are managed by the Group Finance function, under the direction of the Group Finance Director.
Investment and contracting controls The Group has clearly defined guidelines for the purchase and sale of land within the Group, which include detailed environmental, planning and financial appraisal and are subject to executive authorisation.
Rigorous procedures are also followed for the selection of consultants and contractors.
The review and monitoring of all build programmes and budgets are a fundamental element of the Companys financial reporting cycle.
Internal audit Internal auditors are in place in each division and at group to provide assurance on the operation of the Groups control framework.
Whistleblowing Whistleblowing procedures are not formalised and follow the Groups formal grievance procedures.
These initially are through line management and up to managing director.
Staff also have direct access to the Group Legal Department.
Formalising the procedure has been debated by the Board, which concluded that the current arrangements are appropriate in the context of the structure and culture of the Group.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its current and prospective shareholders through ongoing meetings between institutional investors.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet all Directors after the Annual General Meeting in addition to individual meetings with shareholders.
Also, in the year under review, the Company engaged in detailed consultation with the Companys shareholders and stakeholders over its proposed Scheme of Arrangement and Remuneration Policy, including approximately 34 meetings held by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Committees advisers.
The Scheme of Arrangement was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company in September 2004 by 93.4% of the votes cast.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Companys activities through the Annual and Interim Reports.
In addition, the corporate website gives information on the Group and latest news, including regulatory announcements.
The presentations made after the announcement of the preliminary and interim results are also available on the website.
co. uk 43 Corporate Governance continued The Board is kept informed of the view of the shareholders through periodic reports from the Companys broker UBS.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels has failed or when such contact is inappropriate.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General meeting where the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions and also available for discussions with shareholders both prior to and after the meeting.
The Company arranges for the Annual Report and Accounts and related papers to be posted to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days for consideration prior to the Annual General Meeting.
The Company complies with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, which, including abstentions, are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and are announced to the Stock Exchange shortly after the close of the meeting.
The Company also complies with the requirements of the Combined Code with the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-executive Directors, which set out their expected time commitment, in addition to the service contracts for the Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and during normal business hours.
Following publication of Paul Myners report on the findings and recommendations of the Shareholder Voting Working Group in February 2004, the Company proposed amendments to its Articles to provide the Company with the power to provide electronic voting facilities for shareholders who hold their shares through Crest, which having been approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, will enable the Company to provide Crest voting facilities for the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Going concern After making proper enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statements of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and its subsidiary undertakings will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc website is the responsibility of the Company: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislations in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
