CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance and is responsible for good governance.
This report outlines how the principles of The Combined Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate Governance were applied, unless otherwise stated, throughout the financial year.
The Directors are also aware that there are many other published guidelines relating to corporate governance and, whilst these receive due consideration, the Board does not believe it appropriate to address them individually in the Annual Report.
The Board is always available to discuss corporate governance issues with Shareholders.
THE BOARD COMPOSITION AND PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors comprises six non-executive Directors of which Mr Shaw acts as Chairman.
The Board carefully considers guidance on independence of non-executive Directors including views that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
An individual can therefore be considered to be independent even though their length of service is longer than currently recommended.
All Directors are considered to be independent notwithstanding that Mr Shaw has sat on the Board for more than 9 years.
The Board has decided to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Articles of Association, The Combined Code and the AITC Code by having all Directors, if appropriate, seek re-election annually, as opposed to every three years.
The Company has no executive Directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external rms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
Documented contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these rms, which clearly set out the areas where the Board has delegated authority to them.
The Board meets at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor the investment performance of the Company compared to its benchmark index and in relation to comparable investment trusts.
The Directors also review the Companys investment activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy.
As the Board is comprised entirely of independent non-executive Directors, there is neither a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee.
Directors fees and the appointment of new Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board conducts an annual review of its composition having regard to the present and future needs of the Company.
Mr Shaw, on his appointment as Chairman, did not fully comply with the independence criteria set out in The Combined Code as he had been a member of the Board for more than 9 years.
During the appointment process, the Board reviewed its structure, including the balance of expertise and skills brought by individual Directors and their length of service, where continuity and experience can add signicantly to the strength of the Board.
The Board agreed that it was not necessary to appoint external search consultants nor use open advertising on this occasion.
The Board undertakes an annual self-assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role, processes and interaction with the Investment Manager.
The Directors also evaluate collectively the performance of each Director.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training when required.
Each Directors performance continues to be effective and each remains committed to the Company.
In line with the Boards policy, each Director retires at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 1 March 2006.
Messrs Shaw, Buchan, Chiappelli, Cran, Prof Marsh and Dr Nimmo, whose biographical details are shown on page 6, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company although no Director took such advice during the financial year under review.
The Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The following table sets out the number of Directors meetings including Committee meetings held during the financial year and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
During the financial year, 5 Board meetings including 4 main quarterly meetings and 4 Audit and Management Engagement Committee meetings were held.
Audit and Management Board of Directors Engagement Committee 2 Director Held Attended Held Attended D R Shaw appointed as Chairman from 23 February 2005 4 4 W Y Hughes, Chairman retired on 23 February 2005 1 1 H N Buchan 4 4 4 4 1 M L A Chiappelli 44 4 4 J E G Cran 4 4 4 4 Prof P R Marsh 4 4 Dr W S Nimmo 4 3 1 Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee.
2 Excludes a telephone conference meeting attended by Messrs Buchan and Chiappelli.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company was formed to, and continues to, invest in a portfolio of small UK quoted companies.
The Board believes that regular contact with Shareholders, the majority of whom are institutions, is essential.
The Managers meet most of the institutional Shareholders twice a year and provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company.
Directors of the Company periodically meet institutional Shareholders and are always available for discussion with any Shareholder.
Consequently the Company does not consider it necessary to designate one person as the senior independent director.
The Directors may be contacted through the Secretaries whose details are shown on page 6.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM during which the Directors and Managers are available to discuss key issues affecting the Company.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
As mentioned above, the Managers meet major Shareholders regularly to update them and in addition Company performance and other relevant information is available on the Managers website at www.
The Company applies the guidance published by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in respect of The Combined Codes sections on Internal Control commonly known as the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Directors have an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
At least once a year the Directors formally review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and this process principally comprises receiving and examining reports from the rms to which services are subcontracted, detailing the internal control objectives and procedures adopted by each rm.
Each report has been reviewed by the respective rms auditors.
The Directors have not identied any significant problems in respect of the Companys system of internal control.
24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors have appointed an Audit and Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Mr Chiappelli, a Chartered Accountant.
There is a range of recent and relevant financial experience amongst the members of the Committee.
This Committee, of which Messrs Buchan and Cran are also members, specically considers the financial reporting by the Company, the internal control principles adopted and the relationship with the Companys auditors including making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the auditors.
In addition, it reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 1,000 and related to the provision of taxation services and considers that these services are not a threat to objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
Furthermore, non-audit work requires the prior approval of the Committee.
The Committee considers annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function.
However, as the Company has no employees and subcontracts all its business to third parties, it believes that an internal audit function is not necessary.
This Committee also formally reviews the terms of the agreements with the Managers and the Secretaries annually and details are set out in the Directors Report.
The terms of reference of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee and the Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on request.
SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL ISSUES AND VOTING POLICY The Company is a shareholder in approximately 120 small companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is carried out by its Managers, Aberforth Partners LLP.
The Managers have a consistent and well-dened investment process based on fundamental analysis of the constituents of its investment universe.
The Managers primary objective is to deliver investment returns greater than the return on the Companys benchmark index, the HGSC XIC.
The Directors, through the Companys Managers, also encourage investee companies to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
The Board and the Managers support the Statement of Principles of the Institutional Shareholders Committee which set out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Effective management of risks and opportunities posed by social, environmental and ethical SEE issues is an important component of good corporate governance.
Companies that ignore significant corporate responsibilities risk serious damage to their reputation, brand and shareholder value, as well as litigation and operational risks.
The Managers believe that sound SEE policies make good business sense and take these issues into account when investment decisions are taken.
However, the Managers do not exclude companies from its investment universe purely on grounds of SEE concerns.
Instead, the Managers adopt a positive approach whereby such matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
The Board has also given discretionary voting powers to the Managers.
Aberforth Partners LLP exercise these voting rights on every resolution which is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company is invested.
The Managers vote against resolutions that they believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with directors of the Company concerned.
The Board receives from the Managers quarterly reports on governance issues including voting arising from investee companies and reviews, from time to time, the Managers voting guidelines and its stance towards SRI and SEE matters.
25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE The Company has complied with the provisions of The Combined Code during the financial year subject to the following exceptions: i there is no designated senior independent director: ii Mr Shaw did not fully comply with the independence criteria on his appointment as Chairman and iii neither a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee has been established.
These issues are explained above.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE AITC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The AITCs Code of Corporate Governance complements The Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for boards of investment trusts.
The Company as a member of the AITC has complied with the provisions of The AITC Code of Corporate Governance during the financial year.
