ADMIRAL GROUP plc 25 Corporate governance aware of any shareholder concerns that cannot The Combined Code on be resolved through the routine mechanisms Corporate Governance for investor communications, the feedback This Corporate Governance Report explains from investors through the Companys key features of the Groups governance programme of investor meetings is that regular structure, how it applies the principles in the meetings with the Senior Independent Director revised Combined Code on Corporate are not considered necessary.
Governance the Code, and the extent to which the Company has complied with the A.
7.2 This is currently being reviewed by the provisions of the Code.
In the 2004 Corporate Governance statement A.
3.2 As noted in the Chairmans statement the Company made reference to paragraphs C. 3.1 Gillian Wilmots appointment as Chief Executive of and B.
2.1 of the Combined Code, which state that the privately owned credit retail business Buy-asthe Audit and Remuneration Committees should you-View in August 2005 results in her no longer comprise three independent Non-executive being regarded as an independent Director under Directors.
At that time these Committees had the Combined Code, the Chairman also being only two independent Non-executive members Chairman of that Company.
As a consequence she and it was explained that the Board was actively will retire and not offer herself for re-election as a recruiting a new independent Non-executive Director of Admiral at the forthcoming Annual Director who would join both Committees on General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee has appointment.
On 26 April 2005 Gillian Wilmot instigated a search for a new Non-executive was appointed to the Board and the Audit and Director with equivalent skills and experience.
The Company has a comprehensive programme The provisions of the Code have been reviewed of meetings and dialogue with institutional and where appropriate steps have been taken to investors.
The views of investors expressed ensure that the Company is in compliance with through this dialogue are communicated to the all of the provisions of the Code.
As at the date Board as a whole through the investor relations of this Report the Company complies with all report.
All Directors can, therefore, develop an of the provisions of the Code, save the understanding of any issues and concerns of requirement in Code D. 1.1 that the Senior major shareholders should any be raised.
Independent Director should attend meetings Feedback from shareholders suggests that with a range of shareholders, Code A.
7.2 that these arrangements for communication Non-executive Directors should be appointed between the Company and its shareholders are for specified terms and Code A.
3.2 that at least considered to be satisfactory and effective.
half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors The Admiral Group Board determined by the Board to be independent.
The Group is controlled by its Board of Directors.
The Board is responsible for the proper Taking each item: management of the Group as well as setting the D. 1.1 Whilst the Senior Independent Director Groups strategic goals and objectives, ensuring is always available to meet with individual the necessary financial and other resources are shareholders on request to ensure the Board is made available to meet them, and measuring 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE progress towards achieving them.
The Board is implementation of the strategies and policies ultimately responsible to shareholders for the of the Group as determined by the Board financial and operational success of the Group.
day to day monitoring of the operating and The Board, which meets at least eight times a financial results against plans and budgets year, has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval which include: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources approval of the annual report and accounts, including the corporate governance developing and implementing risk statement and remuneration report management systems approval of preliminary announcements of During the year the Board carried out an interim and final results evaluation of itself and its Committees.
The evaluation consisted of detailed questionnaires approval of the dividend policy, including the completed by all Directors and one-to-one declaration of the interim dividend and discussions between the Chairman and Directors recommendation of the final dividend including meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being setting Group strategy and approving an present.
The results of the evaluation were annual budget and medium-term projections discussed at a Board meeting in November 2005 and an action plan produced.
No major issues reviewing operational and financial performance were identified.
approving major acquisitions, divestments The performance of the individual Executive and capital expenditure Directors is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The reviewing the Groups systems of financial performance of the Chairman is reviewed by control and risk management the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive John Sussens, ensuring that appropriate management and taking into account the views of the Executive succession plans are in place Directors.
A meeting was held in November 2005 under the Chairmanship of John Sussens approving Board, Board Committee and to discuss the results of this review.
John Company Secretarial appointments Sussens also gave individual feedback to the Chairman and was able to confirm that the approving policies relating to Directors performance of the Chairman continues to be remuneration and the severance of Directors effective, and that the Chairman continues to contracts demonstrate commitment to his role.
ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes The Chairman, taking into account the views place with shareholders of other Directors, conducts the performance review of the Chief Executive.
commencement of significant new business activities The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has delegated the following The division of responsibilities between the responsibilities to the Executive Directors: Chairman of the Board, Alastair Lyons, and the the development and recommendation of Chief Executive, Henry Engelhardt, is clearly strategic plans that reflect the longer-term defined in written job specifications and has objectives and priorities established by the Board been approved by the Board.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 27 The Board receives presentations from senior Directors and Directors managers from within the Group on a regular independence basis as a component of the ongoing The Board currently comprises the Chairman, development of the Non-executive Directors.
three independent Non-executive Directors, one Non-executive Director who is employed by a Re-election significant shareholder and is not, therefore, Subject to the Companys Articles of independent, and one Non-executive Director Association, the Companies Act and satisfactory deemed by the Combined Code not to be annual performance evaluation, Non-executive independent.
There are three Executive Directors.
Directors are appointed without a maximum period of appointment.
Their contracts may, The independent Directors are of sufficient however, be terminated by either party giving calibre and number that their views carry one months notice, or three months for the significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Details of the Chairmans other commitments The Board is conscious of the requirement of are included in the Chairmans biography.
The the Combined Code and at such a time as a Chairman does perform a number of other Non-executive Directors length of service goes Non-executive roles outside of the Group but beyond that recommended to be considered the Board is satisfied that these are not such as independent, the Board will review the position.
to interfere with the performance of the Manfred Aldags appointment is contingent upon Chairmans duties within the Group.
Since the his continued employment with Munich Re.
last annual report the Chairman was appointed Chairman of Higham Group Plc on 1 July 2005.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting on During 2005 he resigned as a Non-executive 18 May 2005 all of the Directors were Director of the Department of Transport.
re-elected by shareholders except for Gillian Wilmot who was appointed on 26 April 2005, The Directors are given access to independent between the date of the AGM notice and the professional advice at the Groups expense, AGM.
As noted above she will retire and not should they deem it necessary, to carry out seek re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
accordance with the Companys Articles, which provide that a minimum of one third of Professional development Directors or if this is not a whole number, the On appointment, Directors take part in a nearest number not exceeding one third comprehensive induction programme where should resign and offer themselves for they receive financial and operational re-election at each AGM, Manfred Aldag and information about the Group, details Henry Engelhardt will retire by rotation and concerning their responsibilities and duties, as seek re-election by shareholders at the well as an introduction to the Groups forthcoming AGM.
The Company Secretary The induction is supplemented by visits to the The Company Secretary is responsible for Groups two locations and meetings with advising the Board through the Chairman on all members of the senior management team and governance matters.
The Directors have access their departments.
Throughout their period in to the advice and services of the Company office the Directors are continually updated on Secretary.
The Companys Articles of the Groups business, legal matters concerning Association and the schedule of matters their role and duties, the competitive reserved to the Board for decision provide that environments in which the Group operates and appointment and removal of the Company any other changes affecting the Group and the Secretary is a matter for the Board.
industry in which it operates.
28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Information Nomination Committees attend the Companys Reports and papers are circulated to the Annual General Meeting along with other Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Directors, and are available to answer Board and Committee meetings.
These papers shareholders questions on the activities of the are supplemented by information specifically Committees they chair.
requested by the Directors from time to time.
The Group maintains a corporate website The Non-executive Directors receive monthly www.
co. uk containing a wide management accounts and other regular range of information of interest to institutional management reports and information, enabling and private investors.
them to scrutinise the Groups performance against agreed objectives and budgets.
Board Committees The number of full Board meetings and Relations with shareholders Committee meetings attended by each The Investor Relations team has effective day-toDirector during 2005 is shown below.
day primary responsibility for managing communications with institutional shareholders The terms of reference of the principal through a combination of briefings to analysts Committees of the Board Audit, and institutional shareholders, both at the interim Remuneration and Nomination are available and year end results.
Site visits and individual on the Companys corporate website.
Those discussions with the Executive Directors are also terms of reference are reviewed annually.
Regular dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that the The Audit Committee Companys strategy is understood and that any Constitution and membership issues are addressed in a constructive way.
The membership in place at the year-end was, Martin Jackson Chairman, Keith James, and In fulfilment of the Chairmans obligations Gillian Wilmot appointed 26 April 2005.
The under the new Combined Code, the Chairman Company Secretary or his nominated Deputy would give feedback to the Board on issues acts as Secretary to the Committee.
raised with him by major shareholders, although to date there have been no such The Committee consisted entirely of issues.
This is supplemented by monthly independent Non-executive Directors until feedback to the Board on meetings between Gillian Wilmots appointment to the Board of management and investors.
External analyst Buy-as-you-view in August 2005.
It is required reports are circulated to all the Directors.
Scheduled Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 9 4 14 Alastair Lyons Chairman 9 100% 1 100% Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive 9 100% Andrew Probert 9 100% David Stevens 9 100% Manfred Aldag 7 78% 1 100% Martin Jackson 9 100% 4 100% 4 100% Keith James 9 100% 4 100% 1 100% John Sussens 8 89% 4 100% Gillian Wilmot 7 100% 3 100% 2 100% Gillian Wilmot attended all of the meetings after her appointment date on 26th April 2005.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 29 to meet at least three times per annum.
There The findings of all internal and external have been four meetings during 2005.
As noted investigations into internal control and risk above, all members attended all meetings.
management are reviewed, along with Gillian Wilmot attended all meetings following managements response to the same.
her appointment to the Admiral Board on 26 April 2005.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of processes in place throughout the Group The Board considers that the members of the to identify, assess and manage business risks.
It Committee have the appropriate competence is also responsible for reviewing and and experience to carry out their duties and approving the statement on internal control further considers that Martin Jackson and risk management that is included later in Committee Chairman has the appropriate this statement.
recent and relevant financial experience as defined in the Combined Code.
Ongoing training 3 Internal audit is provided to all members, and this is intended The Committee is responsible for monitoring to cover relevant developments in financial and has reviewed the effectiveness of the reporting, company law and the various Groups Internal Audit function.
The Terms of Reference inter alia:- of the Audit Committee include all matters reviewing, assessing and approving the annual suggested by the Code.
internal audit programme Summary of key activities considering the appropriateness of the The key activities within the remit of the resource, remit and terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: internal audit function 1 Financial reporting matters receiving, on a regular basis, reports on the The Committee is charged with monitoring the work of internal audit and updates on the integrity of the Groups financial statements progress through the work programme including accompanying narrative statements along with any formal announcements relating to meeting with the Internal Audit Manager and the Groups financial performance especially Compliance Officer at least once annually, where this is of a price sensitive nature.
without the attendance of management During the year the Committee has reviewed 4 Auditors independence and objectivity and advised the Board on the Groups interim The Committee has reviewed and made and annual financial statements, its accounting recommendations on the appointment and policies and the control of its financial and remuneration of the external auditor and business risks, the nature and scope of the monitored their performance.
The Audit work to be performed by the external auditor, Committee regularly monitors the non-audit and the results of this audit work.
services being provided to the Group by its external auditor.
2 Internal control and Risk Management Strategy Both the Board and the external auditor have The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness safeguards in place to prevent the auditors of the Groups system of internal control and independence and objectivity being the overall Risk Management strategy.
The Audit Committee has put in context, the Committee works closely with the place a comprehensive policy to regulate the Groups Risk Management Committee, whose use of the external auditor for non-audit activities are described later in this statement.
This policy sets out the nature of the work the external auditor may not undertake.
30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For those services that are deemed appropriate 5 Whistle blowing for the auditor to carry out, the policy sets out The Committee reviewed and assessed the the approval process that must be followed for procedures put in place throughout the Group each type of assignment.
to enable employees to raise concerns in confidence over any possible wrongdoing in The policy includes four key principles that relation to financial reporting or other matters.
underpin the provision of non-audit services by The Committee ensures that the arrangements the external auditor.
The auditor should not: in place allow for reasonable, independent investigation of the matters and appropriate audit its own firms work follow-up action.
make management decisions for the Group The Nominations Committee The membership in place at the year-end was have a mutuality of financial interest with the Keith James Chairman, Alastair Lyons and Group, or Manfred Aldag.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
be put in the role of advocate for the Group The Committee as required by the Code Prior approval of the Committee is required for contains a majority of independent Nonany services provided by the external auditor executive Directors.
where the fee is likely to be in excess of 30,000.
In any case, activities that may be The Committee has met on one occasion perceived to be in conflict with the role of the during the last twelve months with all external auditor must be submitted to the members present at that meeting.
Committee for approval prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
The The Committee leads the process for making Committee monitors the amounts paid to the appointments to the Board or where the external auditor for non-audit services on a appointee is likely to become a Board member.
The Committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Details of the amounts paid to the external appointment of new Directors to the Board auditor during the year for audit and other through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge services are set out in the notes to the and experience of Directors.
also ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board, and During the year the Committee undertook an to other senior management positions.
The decision to tender Responsibility for making senior management for the external audit was driven by a number appointments is vested in the Chief Executive.
of factors including governance requirements and the known rotation of the existing audit During 2005, the Committee instructed partner following the 2005 year-end.
In external search consultants to provide addition KPMG had been appointed auditor support in relation to the appointment of a upon the request of Barclays Private Equity in Non-executive Director.
This gave the Committee an opportunity specifications were drawn up with reference for objective reassessment of the incumbent to the mix of skills, knowledge and experience auditor as well as alternative audit firms.
The of the existing Directors and the requirements Audit Committee concluded that the of the Board.
Interviews were carried out with incumbent auditor should be recommended to a range of potential candidates, by the serve another term and that the tender process external agency, members of the Committee, should be carried out at intervals of no longer and other members of the Board.
As a result than five years.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 31 of the process, the Committee recommended provide reasonable and not absolute assurance to the Board, and the Board agreed, that against material misstatement or loss.
Gillian Wilmot be appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director with effect from 26 The Board is of the view that there is an April 2005.
The anticipated time ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and commitments for the role were discussed and managing the Groups significant risks, that it agreed with Gillian.
has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2005 and up to the date of approval The Committee reviewed the current Board size, of the annual report and accounts, that it is structure and composition and confirmed that regularly reviewed by the Board and that it no changes were required and that the leadership accords with the internal control guidance for of the organisation was such that the Company Directors on the Combined Code.
could continue to compete effectively in the marketplace in which it operates.
In order to ensure these responsibilities are properly discharged, the Board has delegated the Remuneration Committee task of supervising risk management and internal The membership in place at the year-end was control to the Risk Management Committee John Sussens Chairman, Martin Jackson and RMC which is discussed further below.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the There are several key elements to the risk Committee.
management environment throughout the Group.
These include the setting of risk The Committee met four times during the year management policy at Board level, and all members attended the meetings.
Gillian enforcement of that policy by the Chief Wilmot attended the two meetings that were Executive, delivery of the policy by the RMC held after her appointment.
via the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and the overall assurance During the year the Committee carried out the provided by the Audit Committee that the following tasks: systems operate effectively.
reviewed the Groups overall remuneration The Board recognises that the day-to-day policy and strategy responsibility for implementing these policies must lie with the management team, whose recommended for approval individual operational decisions must take into account remuneration packages for Executive risk and how this can be effectively controlled.
Directors and the Chairman including terms The Compliance Officer and Risk Officer take and conditions of employment and any responsibility for ensuring management are changes to packages aware of their risk management obligations, providing them with support and advice and reviewed the rules and performance ensuring that the risk management strategy is measures of the Group share schemes and properly communicated.
the grant, award, allocation or issue of shares under such schemes The RMC receives reports setting out key performance and risk indicators and considers Internal control and possible control issues brought to their risk management attention by early warning mechanisms, which The Board is responsible for the Groups system are embedded within the operational units and of internal control and for reviewing its reinforced by risk awareness training.
Such a system is designed to and the Audit Committee also receive regular manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure reports from Internal Audit, which include to achieve business objectives and can only 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE recommendations for improvement in the prepare relevant and useful risk management control and operational environment.
The information for use by the Audit Committee Audit Committees role in this area is confined and Board to a high-level review of the arrangements for internal control.
The Boards agenda includes a Another key responsibility is to assess the regular item for consideration of risk and extent of regulation applying to authorised control and receives reports thereon from the companies within the Group.
The Committee RMC and the Audit Committee.
The emphasis develops policies to ensure compliance with is on obtaining the relevant degree of such regulation and ensures that appropriate assurance and not merely reporting by action is taken by the management team to exception.
At its March 2006 meeting, the implement compliant systems and procedures.
Board carried out the annual assessment for the 2005 year by considering documentation Internal Audit from the Audit Committee, taking account of The Internal Audit function assists management events since 31 December 2005. by providing them with timely, independent assurance that the controls established are The Audit Committees ability to provide the operating effectively.
This includes regular appropriate assurance to the Board depends on reviews of internal control systems and the provision by Internal Audit of periodic and business processes, including compliance independent confirmation that the controls systems and procedures and identification of established by management are operating control weakness and recommendations to effectively.
The Audit Committee reviews the management on improvements.
wider aspects of internal control and risk management, providing a high level challenge Going concern to the steps being taken to implement the risk The Directors are satisfied that the Group has management strategy.
adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and therefore The Risk Management Committee consider it appropriate to prepare the financial The Committees members include the three statements on the going concern basis.
Executive Directors, the Compliance Officer and the Group Company Secretary.
One of the Committees principal responsibilities is to ensure that the risk management policy approved by the Board is implemented throughout the Group.
The Committee is expected to: assess the nature and extent of the risks facing the Group and ensure appropriate controls are in place to mitigate risks in line with the Risk Appetite Policy to empower all managers throughout the business to take responsibility for the management of risks in their areas and improve risk management decision making consider the likelihood of occurrence of the risks identified and assess the Companys ability to manage these risks
