BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Corporate governance Governance framework The Board of Directors of BG Group is committed to the highest standards of Governance framework 38 corporate governance, which it considers are critical to maintaining investor confidence and for the integrity of Effective governance is at the the Group.
BG Groups Governance framework core of BG Groups ability to complements the Groups beliefs and behaviours as set out in the Statement operate successfully in the of Business Principles, details of which can be found on page 31. global business environment.
The Companys shares are listed on both the London and New York stock exchanges.
This report explains how the Governance framework is implemented across the Group and, accordingly, the rationale for the statement by the Board of Directors that the Group complies with the applicable UK and US corporate governance requirements.
STATEMENTS OF COMPLIANCE Statement of compliance with the Overview provisions of the UK Combined Code As a UK listed company, BG Group is Organisation and Structure: BG Group has an established required to state whether it has complied Governance framework that is overseen Internal Control Framework: and with the provisions set out in Section 1 by the Board of Directors, which is of the UK Financial Reporting Councils ultimately responsible to BG Group Independent Assurance processes.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance shareholders.
The framework is made the Combined Code throughout 2005 up of three core elements: and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
BG Group is also required to explain how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code relating to Directors, their remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations with shareholders.
The Directors consider that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in BG Group Governance framework Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2005.
Statement of compliance with the NYSE Corporate Governance Rules The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange BG GROUP SHAREHOLDERS NYSE and the Company is, therefore, subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as those rules and laws apply to non-US companies.
The NYSE requires US companies BOARD OF DIRECTORS listed on the exchange to comply with its corporate governance rules, but non-US companies, such as BG Group, are exempt from most of these rules.
However, pursuant to NYSE Rule 303A.
11, BG Group is required to INTERNAL disclose a summary of any significant ways ORGANISATION INDEPENDENT CONTROL in which the corporate governance practices AND STRUCTURE ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK it follows differ from those required by the NYSE for US domestic companies.
The Directors consider that there are no significant differences in the corporate governance practices followed by BG Group compared with those required by the NYSE for US domestic companies, except that, as permitted by the Combined BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Code, the Nominations Committee A list of the individual Directors, their comprises a majority of independent nonbiographies and details of their committee Matters reserved to the Board 39 executive Directors.
membership is provided on page 45.
1 Approval of the Group vision, values GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive and overall Governance framework.
The remainder of this report provides are separated and their responsibilities are 2 Approval of the Companys Annual further information about BG Groups clearly established, set out in writing and Report and Accounts, Remuneration Governance framework in support of the agreed by the Board.
The roles and report and Quarterly Financial responsibilities of the Chairman and statements made above, including how Statements.
BG Group has applied the relevant principles Chief Executive have also been published set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
3 Approval of any interim dividend and recommendation of the final Organisation and Structure The Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, dividend.
A key element of BG Groups Governance is responsible for the workings and 4 Approval of Group financial policy.
framework is its organisation and leadership of the Board and for the balance structure, which is established by the of its membership, subject to Board and 5 Approval of material capital projects, Board and is designed to allow for shareholder approval.
The Chief Executive, investments, acquisitions and effective and efficient decision-making.
Frank Chapman, is responsible for leading disposals by any Group company.
and managing the business within the This section sets out details of the 6 Approval of the Companys long-term authorities delegated by the Board.
organisation and structure and the finance plan and annual capital and underpinning mechanisms that ensure it is The independent non-executive Directors revenue budget.
robust and effective in satisfying applicable provide a wealth of experience and skills 7 Approval of any significant change corporate governance requirements.
from a number of industry and in Group accounting policies or government backgrounds.
They are key to Detailed on page 41 is the BG Group Board practices.
the formulation and development of the and committee structure.
The membership Groups strategy and also review and 8 Approval of all circulars, listing of each of the principal Board committees monitor the performance of management, particulars, resolutions and is shown on page 42. the integrity of financial information and corresponding documentation sent to shareholders.
The Board has delegated authority to its internal control and risk management.
committees on specific matters, which are 9 Approval of changes in the capital Paul Collins is the Senior Independent set out in written terms of reference.
structure of the Company or its status Director SID nominated by the Board, These authorities are reviewed annually as a plc and, in particular, the issue or and is available to shareholders as an by the Board and the terms of reference allotment of shares in the Company alternative point of contact to the of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations otherwise than pursuant to Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief and Corporate Responsibility committees Company-approved employee share Financial Officer.
The role of the SID is are published on BG Groups website.
clearly established, set out in writing and Copies are also available upon request.
has been agreed by the Board.
Details of 10 Approval of material changes to the Minutes of committee meetings are the role are on BG Groups website.
The Companys pension schemes rules, circulated to all Directors.
SID will chair the Nominations Committee any change of Trustee or material Board of Directors when considering succession for the role changes to funding and management The Board is responsible to BG Groups arrangements.
The SID is expected to shareholders for creating and delivering commit at least three to four days per 11 Appointment, re-appointment sustainable shareholder value through the year to the role, and significantly more in and removal of the Chairman and management of the Groups businesses exceptional circumstances.
This is in Directors and the recommendation within the overall Governance framework.
addition to the expected time commitment to shareholders of their election or The Board sets the Groups strategy and in his capacity as a non-executive Director.
re-election under the Articles of ensures that an appropriate level of Association: the appointment and All Directors are subject to election financial and human resources is made removal of the Company Secretary.
by shareholders at the first Annual available to management in the delivery General Meeting AGM following their 12 Approval of the division of of the agreed strategy.
Thereafter, in responsibilities between the As well as oversight responsibility for accordance with the Combined Code and Chairman and Chief Executive.
financial performance, internal controls the Companys Articles of Association, 13 Establishing committees of the Board, and risk management of the Group, the they are subject to re-election every three approving their terms of reference Board has a formal schedule of matters years.
Based on these criteria, the including membership and financial specifically reserved to it for decision.
Nominations Committee has made authority, reviewing their activities These matters are set out on the right recommendations to the Board in respect and, where appropriate, ratifying their hand column of this page.
of the election and re-election of five decisions.
The Board A statement of the Directors responsibilities 14 Recommendation to shareholders for considers that the performance of these for preparing the Financial Statements, the appointment, re-appointment or including a statement regarding the status individual Directors continues to be removal of the Auditors.
effective and that they demonstrate of the Company as a going concern, is set commitment to the role.
15 Approval of this schedule of Matters reserved to the Board.
BG Group maintains liability insurance Board composition for its Directors and officers, and also The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, Deputy provides certain indemnities for its Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Directors and the Company Secretary.
Further details of the indemnities granted six independent non-executive Directors.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Corporate governance Governance framework continued 40 2005 Board and committee attendance Corporate Group Chairmans Audit Remuneration Responsibility Nominations Finance Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 916 5 6 4 3 3 15 Sir Robert Wilson 9 15 4 3 3 a Frank Chapman 914 3 3 14 William Friedrich 9 14 4 2 14 Ashley Almanza 9 14 3 15 b Peter Backhouse 9561 Sir John Coles 9 6 4 c Paul Collins 946 3 d Elwyn Eilledge 322 d Keith Mackrell 35 2 2 d Dame Stella Rimington 21 1 Lord Sharman 9 5 e Baroness Hogg 956 2 f Jrgen Dormann 522 a Frank Chapman joined the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 16 June 2005. b Peter Backhouse joined the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 14 December 2005. c Paul Collins joined the Audit Committee on 15 March 2005. d Keith Mackrell, Dame Stella Rimington and Elwyn Eilledge retired on 4 May 2005. e Baroness Hogg joined the Board on 27 January 2005 and the Nominations Committee on 22 April 2005. f Jrgen Dormann joined the Board on 1 June 2005 and the Remuneration Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee on 16 June 2005. to Directors are set out in the Directors Companys share option or a performanceCompany Secretary report on page 50. related pay scheme, or is a member of the The Company Secretary, Ben Mathews, is responsible for advising the Board through Companys pension scheme: Director independence the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Combined Code includes provisions has close family ties with any of The Directors have full access to the advice the Companys advisers, Directors for a companys board to assess the and services of the Company Secretary, or senior employees: independence of each non-executive who is also responsible to the Board for: Director.
The outcome of this assessment holds cross-directorships or has significant ensuring that correct Board procedures are should be presented to the Board.
This links with other Directors through followed: ensuring effective communication assessment was applied in respect of the involvement in other companies or bodies: flows within the Board, its committees appointment of Baroness Hogg and Jrgen and between senior management and represents a significant shareholder: or Dormann and, based upon that review, non-executive Directors: and facilitating the Nominations Committee determined has served on the Board for more than induction and assisting with the that they were independent at the time nine years from the date of his her professional development of Directors.
In addition, any Director, who believes it may be required in the furtherance of his or her In the opinion of the Board and, following In making this determination, the Board duties, may take independent professional has noted that Peter Backhouse is a an annual review of the independence of advice at the cost of the Company.
member of the Supervisory Board of its non-executive Directors, each of the RIVR Acquisition B. V. RIVR, the holding Board meetings non-executive Directors, with the exception company of Petroplus International N. V. of the Chairman, is independent in Directors are expected, wherever possible, Petroplus, for which he receives a fee of to attend all Board meetings, relevant accordance with the criteria set out in 40 000 Euro per annum.
He also holds, committee meetings and the AGM.
The Board has directly and indirectly, shares in therefore determined that none of its The Board has regular scheduled meetings RIVR representing, in aggregate, 0.2% non-executive Directors: throughout the year.
Additional meetings of the total issued share capital of RIVR.
of the Board are held as and when has been an employee of the Company Petroplus has a 20% shareholding in necessary.
During the year ended Dragon LNG Group Limited, the joint or Group within the last five years: 31 December 2005, the Board met nine venture holding company that owns the has, or has had within the last three times.
A table detailing the individual LNG importation terminal at Milford years, a material business relationship Directors attendance at each of the Haven, in Wales, and in which BG Group with the Company either directly or as a Companys Board and committee has a 50% shareholding.
partner, shareholder, director or senior meetings is set out above.
In addition At the time of his appointment, from employee of a body that has such a to those meetings, the Board focuses on 1 January 2004, the Chairman was also relationship with the Company: BG Groups strategy at an annual two day considered independent by the Board.
has received or receives additional In accordance with the Combined Code, remuneration from the Company apart the ongoing test of independence for Guidelines are in place concerning the from a directors fee, participates in the the Chairman is not appropriate.
content, timeliness and presentation of BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 BG Group Board and committee structure 41 BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT CHAIRMANS REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CORPORATE FINANCE GROUP EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Operational Performance Committee Organisation & People Committee Portfolio Development Committee Investment Committee Exploration & Appraisal Committee Energy Trading Risk Committee Governance & Risk Committee Health, Safety, Security & Environment Committee Board and committee papers from take place in 2006 following its first full year The evaluation of the Chairman was led by management to ensure that the Board of operation.
The Board evaluations were Paul Collins, the SID, and involved individual is properly briefed.
led by the Chairman and supported by the meetings with each of the Executive Company Secretary and included a series Directors followed by a group review with Frequent opportunities are provided of one-to-one interviews between the the non-executive Directors, excluding the within the scheduled meeting programme Chairman.
The outcome of this review was Chairman and each non-executive Director.
for non-executive Directors to meet, then reported to the Chairman.
without the Chairman or Executive The Chairmans questions were based Directors being present, and under the The Directors have concluded that, upon a number of key areas covering guidance of the SID.
following this detailed review, the Board Group strategy, succession planning, and its committees operate effectively Board size and the relationship between Board effectiveness and also consider that each Director is the Board and its committees.
Directors induction and professional contributing to the overall effectiveness development Similar evaluations were also conducted by and success of the Group.
All Directors appointed to the Board the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration receive a full induction briefing tailored to Relationship with shareholders and and Nominations committees.
their individual needs, taking into account Annual General Meeting The results of the reviews were then their qualifications and experience.
The Board recognises the importance of considered during one-to-one discussions maintaining an ongoing relationship based Ongoing professional development is with the Chairman and collectively at a on frequent dialogue with the Companys provided to Directors to meet their Board meeting or at the relevant shareholders.
The Board is accountable to particular requirements.
This process led to shareholders for the performance and received regular briefings during 2005 on a number of improvements, covering: activities of the Group and, therefore, it is key relevant and topical issues including proactive in obtaining an understanding of Board and senior management legislative, corporate governance, financial shareholder views on a number of matters.
succession: and Regular meetings with institutional regional and or country strategy reviews.
Workshops, seminars and teach-ins on shareholders are held with the Chief issues specifically relating to BG Groups The performance of individual nonExecutive and Chief Financial Officer and, business, such as Well Engineering, executive Directors was evaluated by the where appropriate, the Chairman, Exploration and Petroleum Engineering, Chairman, with input from the committee following the announcement of quarterly were also organised during the year.
chairmen and the Executive Directors.
This ensures that the Board evaluation The performance of the Chief Executive investor community receives a balanced A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of is evaluated by the Chairman and nonand comprehensive view of the Groups the performance of the Board, its principal executive Directors.
The performance of performance and the issues faced by the committees, the individual non-executive the two other Executive Directors is Group.
In addition, the Board regularly Directors and the Chairman was conducted evaluated by the Chief Executive in monitors the views of shareholders and during the year.
An evaluation of the consultation with the Chairman and considers reports from its investor Corporate Responsibility Committee will other non-executive Directors.
relations advisers concerning institutional BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Corporate governance Governance framework continued Board committees 42 Reports for each of the principal committees annually evaluates the design and Remuneration Committee for 2005 appear below: effectiveness of the processes established to The members of the Committee are Baroness estimate, aggregate and report the Groups Hogg Chairman, Peter Backhouse, Paul Collins, Audit Committee various categories of oil and gas reserves.
Sir John Coles and Jrgen Dormann.
The The members of the Committee are Lord Secretary to the Committee is Ben Mathews.
The Committee carried out a number of Sharman Chairman, Peter Backhouse, Paul The Committee is responsible for setting, activities during the year ended 31 December Collins and Baroness Hogg.
The Secretary to the reviewing and recommending to the Board for 2005, including reviewing: Committee is Ben Mathews.
All members of approval BG Groups overall remuneration the Committee are deemed independent and, quarterly, interim and full year financial results: policy and strategy.
Full details are set out in specifically, the Committee has concluded that the Remuneration report on pages 51 to 61. the year end oil and gas reserves its membership meets the requirements of the booking process: Corporate Responsibility Committee Combined Code, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, The members of the Committee are Sir John and SEC and NYSE regulations.
The Board has the delivery of the 2005 internal audit plan Coles Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, Frank determined that Lord Sharman is the Audit and approving the 2006 plan: Chapman, William Friedrich, Jrgen Dormann Committee financial expert for the purposes quarterly and full year internal control and and, since December 2005, Peter Backhouse.
In addition, assurance reports from Group Audit: The Secretary to the Committee is Ben the Board considers that he has recent and Mathews.
Established in February 2005, the relevant financial experience as required by the the effectiveness of the internal audit role of the Committee is to assist the Board in Combined Code.
function: providing strategic leadership, direction and The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling the 2005 external audit plan and associated oversight, and setting the policy on Corporate its responsibilities in respect of: audit fees: Responsibility and Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSSE within the Group.
overseeing the Groups financial reporting the budget and framework for the supply of process, including the internal control non-audit services by the external Auditors, During the year ended 31 December 2005, the structure and procedures for financial the independence and objectivity of the Committee considered a number of activities reporting and monitoring the integrity and external Auditors and the effectiveness of including: appropriateness of the Groups financial the external audit process: a review of the Groups Business Principles: statements: the Groups Internal Control Framework, HSSE quarterly performance updates: the manner in which the Groups including the risk management process: management ensures and monitors the Corporate Responsibility risk issues: and updates on the processes to achieve adequacy of financial, operational and compliance with Section 404 of the community relations.
compliance internal controls and risk Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: management processes designed to The Boards other committees are: manage significant risk exposures: relevant disclosures in this Report: and Chairmans Committee the appointment, compensation, its Terms of Reference.
The members of the Committee are Sir Robert independence and performance of the Wilson Chairman, Frank Chapman, William Nominations Committee Groups external Auditors: and Friedrich and Ashley Almanza.
The Secretary to The members of the Committee are Sir Robert the Committee is Ben Mathews.
The role of the the independence and performance Wilson Chairman, Paul Collins and Baroness Chairmans Committee is to advise and assist of Group Audit.
The Secretary to the Committee is Ben the Chairman in the preparation for Board Mathews.
The role of the Committee is to Specifically, the Audit Committee: meetings.
The Committee also acts on behalf review the structure and composition of the of the Board between scheduled meetings.
regularly reviews the external and internal Board, to identify candidates to fill Board audit work plans: vacancies, including their election and Finance Committee subsequent re-election by shareholders, The members of the Committee are Sir oversees and reviews the procedures for the and to review its own performance on an Robert Wilson Chairman, Frank Chapman, receipt, retention and treatment of complaints annual basis.
William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza.
relating to financial matters, internal The Secretary to the Committee is Ben accounting controls and auditing, including During the year ended 31 December 2005, Mathews.
The Committee is responsible the Groups whistleblowing mechanism: the Committee: for finance and treasury policy decisions.
requests, receives and reviews reports from evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge management on actions taken to address risk Group Executive Committee and experience on the Board: areas identified by management and or the The members of the Committee are the identified, using external boardroom search internal audit process: Executive Directors and those senior managers consultants, potential new non-executive whose details are set out on page 47. reviews with management, and external and Director candidates: The Secretary to the Committee is Ben internal auditors the significant risk exposures Mathews.
The Committee has primary following a review of candidates, and the processes established to identify, authority for the day-to-day management recommended to the Board the appointment monitor, control and report such exposures: of the Groups operations within agreed of Jrgen Dormann as an independent annually evaluates, on behalf of the Board, limits set by the Board.
non-executive Director of the Company: and the design and effectiveness of the internal reviewed its Terms of Reference.
control structure, the Groups financial reporting procedures and the Groups disclosure controls and procedures: and BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 shareholder feedback.
The Chairman and through formal and systematic enquiries Risk management The objective of risk management within non-executive Directors are also given the of, and interviews with, each member of 43 opportunity to meet institutional the GEC and the Group Financial BG Group is to improve performance and shareholders and to discuss topical issues.
Controller, evaluated the individual LOAs decision making through the identification, evaluation and management of key risks.
submitted to the Chief Executive.
The The Company, through its Investor outcome of this process was reported Relations team, responds to a variety of To achieve this, a business risk management to the Chief Executive and Chief process has been established to identify, enquiries from shareholders and an email Financial Officer.
communication facility is available on the evaluate and assist with the management of the risks faced by the Group.
The process Groups website for this purpose.
In turn, a report was presented to the operates on a global basis and provides the Audit Committee setting out the process The Companys AGM will be held on 28 April Audit Committee with assurance that the followed by management and the 2006 at the International Convention Centre major risks faced by the Group have been outcome of the exercise.
The AGM provides attending identified and are regularly assessed and Committee reviewed this report with shareholders with the opportunity to ask that there are controls in place to manage management and Group Audit and, based questions of the full Board of Directors these risks.
on that review, reported to the Board on including the chairmen of the Audit, the effectiveness of BG Groups Internal BG Group views risk management as Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Control Framework.
integral to good business practice.
Responsibility committees and the Company Risk assessment and evaluation are Secretary.
The Notice of AGM, which As a result, the Board has determined incorporated into the key business includes full details of this years AGM, that the Groups system of internal processes including strategy and business is set out on pages 146 to 149. controls is effective.
planning, investment appraisal, Internal Control Framework In addition, the Directors confirm that performance management and HSSE The second key element of BG Groups there were no changes in the Groups management processes.
Governance framework is the Internal internal controls over financial reporting The risk management process is reviewed Control Framework, which defines the way that occurred during the year ended by the Governance and Risk Committee in which the Group operates, and comprises 31 December 2005 that have materially and the GEC.
The Audit Committee oversees the Groups Business Principles, policies, affected, or are reasonably likely to the process on behalf of the Board.
Independent Assurance Evaluation of disclosure controls The Board is responsible for the Groups The third element of BG Groups and procedures system of internal controls and oversees the Governance framework is Independent For 2005, a review of the Groups disclosure Groups review and assurance processes.
Assurance, which is provided primarily by controls and procedures has also been These responsibilities are undertaken in Group Audit, by the independent external facilitated by the Disclosure Committee, accordance with the guidance set out in the Auditors, and by other external advisers.
which met with each of the control Combined Code and as set out in the US owners to receive assurance on the recognised control framework, Committee of The purpose of Group Audit is to provide effectiveness of disclosure controls Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway assurance to the Board, Audit Committee, and procedures for the Groups key GEC and management that effective and Commission, Enterprise Risk Management external releases.
efficient internal control processes are in COSO ERM, which was adopted by the place to identify and manage business Audit Committee in 2004.
This system of These disclosure controls and procedures risks across the Group.
internal control provides reasonable, rather are designed to ensure that information than absolute, assurance against material required to be disclosed is accumulated Specifically, Group Audit: loss or misstatement and is designed to and communicated to management, provides an independent assessment of manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk including the Chief Executive and the Groups systems of risk management of failure to achieve business objectives.
Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely and internal control: decisions regarding the disclosure of Each year, the Board seeks confirmation assists management by carrying out information externally.
that all assets and functions within the independent appraisals and making Group have complied throughout the year As a result of that evaluation, the Chief recommendations for improvement: and with the Internal Control Framework.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer have The Board, through the Chief Executive, supports development of the Groups concluded that, as at 31 December 2005, asks each member of the Group Executive governance and business risk the Groups disclosure controls and Committee GEC to complete and submit management policies.
to the Chief Executive a Letter of The independent external Auditors report Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Assurance LOA, which provides this to shareholders and their audit opinion Act 2002 confirmation for the areas of the business on the accounts are set out on page 62.
This legislation was implemented to for which they have responsibility.
protect investors by improving the accuracy In addition, the external reserves A Governance Self-Assessment GSA and reliability of corporate disclosures by consultant, Degolyer and MacNaughton questionnaire and certificate are also US domestic companies and non-US provides an independent review on certain completed by senior management in companies with US listings.
The Group has of BG Groups oil and gas reserves.
order to complement and support the made good progress on the work required LOA process.
All issues raised by the GSA to ensure full compliance with Section 404 exercise are collated and analysed to of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the determine the effectiveness of the Internal evaluation and reporting of internal Control Framework during the year.
controls over financial reporting, on which A Disclosure Committee, comprising it is required to report for the financial year senior management representatives, ending 31 December 2006.
