8 10 12 9 11 13 8 David Bennett Aged 43 10 Mike McTighe Aged 52 12 Margaret Salmon Aged 58 Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2000, Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in 2004, David Bennett is responsible for 2000, Mike McTighe is currently Margaret Salmon is a Fellow financial accounting, planning Chairman of Frontier Silicon of the Institute of Personnel and reporting, strategic Limited, Phyworks Limited, Development and a nonplanning, group risk, and group Corvil Limited, Nujira Limited executive director of Kingfisher property services.
He has many and Cambridge Semiconductor plc.
She is also Chairman of years experience in the financial Limited, a non-executive director the Sector Skills Development sector, as Finance Director of of Pace Micro Technology plc and Agency.
Her previous executive Cheltenham & Gloucester plc a director of London Metal roles have included being Chief and then as an Executive Exchange Holdings Limited.
Executive, BBC Resources Ltd, Director of the National Bank He is also a member of the Group Personnel Director of of New Zealand Ltd.
He became technology advisory board The Burton Group and a Director a non-executive director of of Apax Partners.
Previously of the University for Industry.
easyJet plc in October 2005. he was Chairman & CEO of 13 Jonathan Watts Aged 51 Carrier1 International SA, 9 Rodney Duke Aged 55 Non-Executive Director and before that Executive Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2000, Director & Chief Executive, Appointed to the Board in Jonathan Watts is President of Global Operations of Cable January 2006, Rod Dukes Hutchison Network Services UK & Wireless plc.
Prior to these career has been with HSBC, Ltd part of the Hutchison appointments, he was with where he spent over 33 years.
Whampoa Group of companies Philips of the Netherlands, Prior to his retirement in 2004 and Chairman of Connectivityman Motorola and GE.
he was General Manager Banking Limited.
Previously he was Services and a Group General 11 Chris Rhodes Aged 42 Managing Director of COLT Manager, managing the banks Managing Director, Telecommunications, Europes distribution capability for Retail Banking largest business telephony, personal and commercial Appointed to the Board in 2002, data and internet company customers.
He had previously Chris Rhodes became Managing and held senior positions in the held a number of executive Director, Retail Banking in 2003.
UK and overseas in a number positions across the bank He was previously the Groups of telecommunications and including investment banking, Operations Director, and has technology companies, including credit cards and operations.
held a number of senior positions National Band Three Ltd, Aircall Rod is a non-executive director with the Group since he joined in Holdings, Sintrom Plc, Datapoint of Exedra Clubs Limited and 1988, including Deputy Managing Corp and Control Data Corp. Books of Course Limited.
Director and Finance Director of Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank plc formerly Girobank plc.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the Corporate Governance consolidated financial statements of Alliance & Leicester plc for The Groups Statement of Corporate Governance is set out on pages the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal Activities and Business Review Social Responsibilities The principal activity of Alliance & Leicester plc and its subsidiaries is The Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Report is set out on pages the provision of a comprehensive range of personal financial services.
In addition, the Companys subsidiary, Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank plc, provides a wide range of banking and financial services to Charitable and Political Donations business and public sector customers.
No donations were made to political parties.
Charitable donations are disclosed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on The Groups business during the year and future plans are reviewed pages 16 to 17. on pages 4 to 26.
Staff Results and Dividends The Groups staff policies are set out under Our Workplace on The profit on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended pages 15 to 16.
An interim net dividend of 16.8 pence per share 2004: 15.7 pence Creditor Payment Policy per share was paid on 10 October 2005.
The Groups creditor payment policy is set out on page 14.
The directors propose a final net dividend for the year of 34.7 pence Risk Management per share 2004: 32.6 pence per share to be paid on 8 May 2006.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group are shown in Notes 2 and 3 on pages 54 to 59.
Directors The following persons were directors of the Company during the year: Authority to Purchase Shares Sir Derek Higgs Chairman from 28 October 2005 During the year, 575,000 shares of 50 pence each, representing Mr J R Windeler Chairman to 27 October 2005 a nominal value of 287,500, were repurchased and cancelled, Mr M P S Barton Deputy Chairman representing 0.13% of the Companys issued capital as at 31 December Mr R A Pym Group Chief Executive 2005.
The aggregate consideration including stamp duty paid for Mr M R Aish from 20 May 2005 the shares was 5.0m.
The purpose of the share buyback programme Mr M J Allen was to help manage the Groups capital base.
Mr R L Banks Capital efficiency remains a key financial objective and shareholder Mrs J V Barker authority will again be sought, at the Annual General Meeting, for the Mr D J Bennett Company to purchase in the market up to 44.8 million of its shares, The Hon D Brougham to 7 May 2005 representing some 15% of the issued share capital, in order to retain Mr R M McTighe flexibility in managing the Companys capital requirements.
Mr C S Rhodes Mrs M Salmon Special Business Mr E J Watts The Annual General Meeting will be held on 2 May 2006.
Special The names and brief biographies of the current directors are shown business to be transacted at the Meeting is set out in full in the on pages 28 and 29.
Messrs R A Pym, D J Bennett and R M McTighe Notice of the Annual General Meeting will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Sir Derek Auditors Higgs and Mr M R Aish were appointed directors on 28 October 2005 A resolution re-appointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys and 20 May 2005 respectively and will offer themselves for election auditors and authorising the Group Audit Committee to determine at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr R J Duke was their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
appointed director on 1 January 2006 and will offer himself On behalf of the Board for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
S Lloyd Directors Interests in Contracts Group Secretary No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any 26 February 2006 contract of significance, other than a service contract see Directors Report on Remuneration on page 37, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Directors Interests in Shares Directors interests in the shares of the Company and options to acquire shares are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41.
Substantial Shareholders Shareholders with an interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosed in accordance with Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985, are shown in Note 37 on page 77.
30 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance Principles of Corporate Governance The process for appointing new directors is determined by the The Board of Alliance & Leicester recognises that good corporate Nomination Committee.
Prior to the appointment of a non-executive governance practices are essential to the prosperity of the Group director, clear selection criteria are agreed by the Committee before and to achieving our strategic objectives.
It believes that an effective an external search consultancy is appointed to identify prospective Board is fundamental in ensuring strong corporate governance and candidates, from which a short list is presented to the Committee.
continues to strive for excellence in the execution of its duties.
This process was followed for the recent appointments.
Newly appointed directors submit themselves for election by Compliance Statement shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their For the year ended 31 December 2005, Alliance & Leicester has applied appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
An induction the principles and complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the programme provides an understanding of the Group and its strategy, Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Details of how Alliance & products, markets and financial position and includes guidance on Leicester complied with the Code are summarised in this statement.
New directors also have a series of introductory meetings with senior management of the Group and all Board Structure directors make regular visits to the Groups operational locations.
At the date of this report, the Group Board comprises the Chairman, Non-executive directors may at any time seek independent advice Sir Derek Higgs, the Group Chief Executive, Richard Pym, three via the Group Secretary.
executive directors and eight non-executive directors, all of whom are The appointment of all non-executive directors is documented in considered to be independent by the Board.
Peter Barton is Deputy a letter of appointment, the standard terms of which are available Chairman and Senior Independent non-executive Director.
Biographical on the Group website at www.
co. uk details of the current directors are set out on pages 28 and 29.
The directors come from diverse business backgrounds and each Board Committees actively and effectively contributes to the work of the Board and The terms of reference for the principal Group Board Committees are its Committees.
available on the Group website at www.
As explained later in this report, with effect from 1 January 2006, the Role of the Group Board Board Committee structure was changed and the current principal The Group Board is responsible for delivering the Groups strategy of Board and management committees and terms of reference and sustained growth in shareholder value through challenging performance membership of the highlighted Board Committees are detailed below.
objectives, whilst ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
The non-executive directors constructively challenge the Group Board management team and supplement the executive directors management expertise with a diversity of business skills and experience.
The Group Board is scheduled to meet monthly and reviews and Nomination Remuneration Group Risk Group Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee debates strategy, operating and financial performance, risk management and internal controls.
Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings and attendance at those meetings are set Assets & Liabilities Operational Risk out on page 34.
Formal minutes or reports of each meeting are Credit Committee Committee Committee prepared and circulated to all directors.
Nomination Committee In addition the Group Board held a one day meeting during the year to The Nomination Committee comprises the Group Chairman and four review strategic matters.
non-executive directors and is responsible for: There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Group Board, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and time including: required of directors and the structure, size and composition of the setting corporate strategies and objectives: Group Board and its Committees: approval of interim and final financial results: recommending new appointments to the Group Board and reviewing re-appointments as they become due: approval of major capital expenditure: succession and contingency planning for all Board and Committee approval of annual budgets and medium term plans: appointments: and approval of significant changes in the Group structure and the annual review of performance of non-executive directors and product range.
The Board has empowered the Group Chief Executive to approve all As at the 26 February 2006, the Committee members are: other matters within agreed financial limits and he in turn delegates the operational and financial management of the Group to the Sir Derek Higgs Chairman executive directors and senior managers, to achieve agreed targets.
Mr M J Allen Mr M P S Barton Appointment and Induction of Directors Mrs M Salmon The composition of the Board is kept under review with the aim Mr E J Watts of ensuring that the directors collectively possess the necessary Sir Derek Higgs replaced Mr J R Windeler who resigned as Chairman skills and experience to direct the Groups business activities.
of the Nomination Committee, on 27 October 2005.
During the year Sir Derek Higgs was appointed to the Board to Mrs D Henderson, Head of Board Office, is the Secretary of the succeed Mr J R Windeler as Chairman and an additional independent Nomination Committee.
non-executive director, Mr M R Aish, who has extensive experience in banking and risk issues, was appointed to the Board.
Mr R J Duke was During 2005, the Committees activities included considering the nominations for a new Chairman and new non-executive directors appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2006 and has considerable banking experience.
and reviewing the Group Boards succession plan.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31 Corporate Governance
