Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance at a Glance page 1.
Board of Directors role and responsibilities 29 4.
Board of Directors composition, structure and process 31 4.1 Membership 31 4.2 Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors 33 4.3 Independence 33 4.4 Terms of appointment 34 4.5 Induction and training 34 4.6 Independent advice 34 4.7 Remuneration 34 4.8 Share ownership and dealing 35 4.9 Chairman 35 4.10 Senior Independent Director 35 4.11 Company Secretary 35 4.12 Meetings 35 5.
Board of Directors review, re-election and renewal 35 5.1 Review 35 5.2 Re-election 36 5.3 Renewal 36 6.
Board Committees 39 8.1 Risk and Audit Committee report 39 8.2 Remuneration Committee report 42 8.3 Sustainability Committee report 42 8.4 Nomination Committee report 43 9.
Conformance with corporate governance standards 43 28 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 1.
Governance at BHP Billiton Group will enter into dialogue with shareholders to share views on matters of interest.
BHP Billitons corporate objective is to create long-term value for shareholders through the discovery, development and conversion Shareholders are encouraged to attend annual general meetings of natural resources, and the provision of innovative customer and to use this opportunity to ask questions.
Questions can be and market-focused solutions Corporate Objective.
In pursuing registered prior to the meeting by completing the relevant form the Corporate Objective we have committed to the highest level accompanying the notice of meeting or by emailing the Group of governance and strive to foster a culture that values and at: investor.
Questions that have been rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate lodged, and their answers, are posted to the website.
The integrity, and respect for others.
This approach to governance is external auditor attends the annual general meetings and is predicated on the belief that there is a link between high-quality available to answer questions.
governance and the creation of shareholder value.
Our Shareholders may appoint proxies electronically through the expectations of our employees and those to whom we contract website.
The notice of meeting describes how this can be done.
business are set out in our Guide to Business Conduct.
A copy of Proceedings at shareholder meetings and important Company the Guide can be found on the Groups website at briefings are broadcast live from the Companys website.
of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and Chief Executive This Statement outlines BHP Billitons system of governance.
Officer CEO to the annual general meeting, a summary of the Shareholders are reminded that BHP Billiton operates under a proceedings of the meeting, and the outcome of voting on the dual listed companies structure with primary listings in Australia items of business are posted to the website following the and the UK.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, the parent meeting.
entities of BHP Billiton, are registered in the US and listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
Board of Directors role and responsibilities framework, the regulatory requirements in Australia, the UK and The role of the Board is to represent the shareholders and to the US have been taken into account, together with prevailing promote and protect the interests of the Company.
It does so standards of best practice.
Where governance principles vary by governing the Group.
across these jurisdictions, as they inevitably do, the Directors The Board has published a Board Governance Document which have resolved to adopt those principles that they consider to be is a statement of the practices and processes the Board has the better of the prevailing standards.
adopted to discharge its role.
It includes the processes it has BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have identical Boards implemented to undertake its own tasks and activities: the of Directors.
The Boards are hereafter referred to collectively matters it has reserved for its own decision-making: the as the Board.
authority it has delegated to the CEO, including the limits on the way in which the CEO can execute that authority: and 2.
Shareholders provides guidance on the relationship between the Board and The Board of BHP Billiton represents the shareholders who, the CEO.
The Board Governance Document can be found at in turn, elect its members.
Shareholders vote on important www.
matters affecting the Group including changes to the Groups The Board has specifically reserved the following matters for constitutional documents, the receipt of annual financial its decision: statements and incentive arrangements for executive Directors.
appointments to the position of CEO and approval of The Board recognises that to vote in an informed manner appointments of executives reporting to the CEO shareholders must receive high-quality, relevant information approval of strategy and annual budgets in a timely manner.
To safeguard the effective dissemination determination of matters in accordance with the approvals of information, BHP Billiton has developed a Market Disclosure framework, and and Communications Policy.
A copy of this Policy is available at formal determinations that are required by the Groups www.
The Policy outlines how BHP Billiton identifies and distributes information in a constitutional documents, by statute or by other external regulation.
timely way to all shareholders and market participants.
It also reinforces BHP Billitons commitment to the continuous The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, disclosure obligations imposed by law, and describes the subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional procedures implemented to ensure compliance.
Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which Beyond those matters, the Board has delegated all authority to BHP Billiton is listed, investor briefings, half-yearly financial achieve the Corporate Objective to the CEO who is free to take statements, the Annual Report and other relevant information all decisions and actions which, in the CEOs judgement, are are posted to the Groups website at www.
reasonable having regard to the limits imposed by the Board.
Any person wishing to receive advice by email of Group news The limits are published in the Board Governance Document.
releases can subscribe at www.
The CEO remains accountable to the Board for the authority that Shareholders are encouraged to make their views known to is delegated to him, and for the performance of the Group.
The Board monitors the decisions and actions of the CEO and the the Group and to directly raise any matters of concern.
The Chairman has regular meetings with shareholders to discuss performance of the Group to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the Corporate Objective, within the limits it governance matters and keeps the Board informed of the views and concerns that have been raised.
From time to time the has imposed.
The Board also monitors the performance of the BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 29
