Directors report Corporate Governance report Group employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups pension Political donations matters, are carried out through, or on the recommendation of, the Boards Board corporate governance statement arrangements, details of which are set out in the Directors remuneration The Group made no political donations during the year 2004: nil.
The Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The majority of the Purpose report and in note 26 to the Accounts.
Boards policy is that the Group does not make political donations, other members of the Nomination Committee and all the members of the other Corporate governance is the framework of business principles, than incidentally in circumstances where an employee might be allowed two committees are independent non-executive directors.
The terms of The Company also facilitates employees participation in its equity through structures and controls within which the Group, its management, time off for public service deemed to be political which, if occuring at all, reference of each of these committees, as well as a statement of the staff share dealing arrangements and option schemes, including a directors and shareholders operate.
Its aim is to ensure: would not be material.
The Board therefore continues not to seek any relationship between the Company and its remuneration advisers, are Sharesave scheme open to all employees on relevant qualification dates.
discretion from shareholders regarding political donations pursuant to the also available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations accountability: Further information relevant to the Group as an employer is set out in the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary on request.
transparency of responsibility: People section of the OFR.
Further details of the membership and activities of each of the Boards the containment of risk within the Groups agreed risk appetite: Nomination and Audit Committees are contained in their separate the appropriate management of conflicts of interest: and Corporate responsibility Supplier payment policy and performance corporate governance reports.
Similar details of the Remuneration effective relationships between the Companys stakeholders, The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with agreed terms of General Committee are contained in the Directors remuneration report.
especially between the Board and shareholders business.
Whenever possible, purchase orders are placed on the basis of An overview of the Companys corporate responsibility activities is set out in the the Groups standard terms and conditions which include provision for the Until the reinsurance to close of the 2003 Lloyds year of account of the all of which support the Companys underlying purpose of creating OFR on page 39.
The Group Chief Executive has direct responsibility at payment of suppliers within 30 days of the end of the month in which the Groups managed syndicate, Syndicate 2001, in early 2006, the shareholder value through the successful delivery of its vision and Board level for leading the Groups initiatives on all corporate responsibility Group receives the goods or in which the services are provided.
Average responsibilities of the board of the Companys managing agency subsidiary, strategy.
related matters, with the relevant senior managers reporting to him.
trade creditors of the Group during 2005, which excludes insurance Amlin Underwriting Limited AUL, included ensuring equity between the This report sets out the practical elements of the Companys corporate Environmental creditors, represented approximately 30 days 2004: 28 days, based on Groups interests and those of third party capital.
Following such governance policies and practices.
It is followed by separate reports from the Notwithstanding its low overall environmental impact, Amlin recognises the the ratio of Group trade creditors to the amounts invoiced during the year.
reinsurance to close, the operational framework governing the Companys Nomination and Audit Committees and by the Directors remuneration report.
need to manage the impact of its activities on the environment in such areas and AULs boards, including the terms of reference of Committees and the Annual General Meeting as internal processes, re-cycling, energy use and encouraging its suppliers membership of the AUL board, are currently under review.
Any amended Commitment and basis of reporting The Notice of Annual General Meeting, to be held at noon on Thursday and insureds to act responsibly regarding environmental impacts and risk.
matters reserved to the Board and Committee terms of reference will be The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, 25 May 2006 at the offices of the Company at St Helens, 1 Undershaft, The Company adopted a Group Environmental Policy in 2001, which, posted on the Companys website as and when they are adopted.
including to the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on London, EC3A 8ND, is contained in a separate circular to shareholders as outlined in the OFR, it continues to implement and develop.
This is done Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the which is being mailed with this report.
The Board is supported by the Company Secretary who, under the direction with the assistance of the Groups Environmental Committee, which is Financial Services Authority the Combined Code or Code.
of the Chairman, helps to ensure good communication and information chaired by a senior executive, David Harris, the Group Operations Director, Auditors flows within the Board, including between executive and non-executive This report, together with the Directors remuneration report, describes how who is a member of the Board of the principal UK operating subsidiary, In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution is directors and between the Board and its committees to all of which either the Company applied the Main and Supporting Principles of the Combined Amlin Underwriting Limited, and reports directly to the Chief Executive.
to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of he or his deputy who is Secretary of AUL acts as Secretary.
He is also, Code during the year and, in the section entitled Summary of Combined Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the Human rights with the Chairman, a guardian of all Board procedural matters, regularly Code compliance on page 51, highlights the one provision with which the directors to fix their remuneration.
Until Amlin Bermuda Ltd opened for business in December 2005, the Group advises the Board on governance matters and facilitates the Board Company was not compliant during the whole year.
had no non-UK employees and no material physical supply chain originating updating and induction work outlined below.
By Order of the Board Role and responsibilities of the Board, its committees outside the UK.
Thus, although the majority of the Groups premium income The non-executive directors also met on a number of occasions during the and the Company Secretary originates from overseas risks particularly from North America, but also year without executive directors or other executive management present, The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its own and its committees elsewhere, most of the potential abuses of human rights that a formal including at least once without the Chairman.
The Chairman chairs full decisions provides that the Boards primary obligation is to lead and control the policy would address are covered by the Companys commitment to carry non-executive meetings and the Deputy Chairman chairs meetings when Company and its business, with exclusive decision making powers over such out its business according to the laws of the countries in which it operates.
the Chairman is not present.
matters as: overall strategy and resources: investment strategy: remuneration Further consideration may be given to the adoption of a human rights policy policies: accounting policies: and capital expenditure, acquisitions and debt as and when overseas operations expand.
Board meetings facilities over certain thresholds.
Matters reserved to the Board also include The Board meets on a regular basis, holding six main pre-scheduled Board Risk management C C T Pender Secretary certain key Group policies, appointments and categories of public meetings in 2005 2004: six and a planning and strategy day 2004: one.
In most of the areas commonly associated with corporate responsibility, 9 March 2006 announcements.
The detailed implementation of all these matters, and In addition, the Board held two special meetings to consider corporate other than Amlins role as an employer, the Board considers that the social day-to-day business, are left to management, which reports formally to the transactions 2004: nil.
There were no formal one-item meetings impact of the Groups activities is relatively low.
Nonetheless, as part of the Board at least quarterly on underwriting, financial and other operational matters 2004: three.
The attendance record of each director who was a director Groups general risk management review processes, the significant risks to and objectives.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is during the year other than Mr Davey who joined the Board after the final the Companys short and long term value arising from social, environmental available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the meeting, all of whom were directors throughout the year, was as follows: and ethical matters, and the opportunities to enhance value from an Companys website or from the Company Secretary on request.
appropriate response, are incorporated as a specific consideration.
Board meeting attendance 2005 The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to This review has identified no specific risks in this area with other than a low Number of meetings enable it to discharge its duties, including providing constructive challenge probability of incidence or low potential financial impact on the Group.
More Director attended to, and scrutiny of, management.
Further information is obtained by the details of risk management generally are included in the Board corporate N J C Buchanan 8 Board from the executive directors and other relevant senior executives as governance statement.
B D Carpenter 8 the Board, particularly its non-executive members, considers appropriate.
R A Hextall 8 Charitable activities and donations Procedures are in place for directors to take independent professional A W Holt 8 The Group made charitable donations during the year of 47,557 advice, when necessary, at the Companys expense.
R S Joslin 8 2004: 34,425, including a special donation to the Disaster Emergencies K T Kemp 8 There is a division of responsibilities on the Board between the Chairman, who Committee in respect of the Asian tsunami, made on a matched funding R W Mylvaganam 5 is responsible for leading and running the Board and related matters such basis alongside staff donations, of 10,000 2004: nil.
The Groups charities C E L Philipps 8 as Board induction and evaluation, and the Group Chief Executive, who has budget is managed by a Charities Committee of staff representatives.
Lord Stewartby 8 executive responsibility for running the Groups business.
A statement detailing Special consideration is given to community projects and fund raising in R J Taylor 8 this division of responsibilities, which includes provision for the Chairmans which members of staff themselves are involved, as well as to charities Average % attendance 96% role in shareholder relations and in ensuring constructive relations between involved with children and health in London.
executive and non-executive directors, was approved by the Board in 2003.
Mr Mylvaganam was absent from the three meetings held in October and Copies of the Group Environmental Policy, the latest environmental The Deputy Chairman, Lord Stewartby, is the senior independent director November due to illness.
Other than this, attendance at Board meetings progress report and the Code of Conduct are available in the corporate and is designated as an appropriate director to whom shareholders concerns was 100%.
Mr Mylvagnam was also absent during the same period from governance section of investor relations on the Companys website or from may be conveyed if contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief a number of Board Committee meetings, as noted in the relevant the Secretary on request.
Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve them or is inappropriate.
Committees reports, for the same reason.
Key parts of the duties of the Board, notably with regard to Board In addition, all the directors serving in July 2005 attended the planning and appointments, controls, risk management and remuneration-related strategy day referred to above.
48 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 49 Corporate Governance report Board terms of appointment, membership and time commitments personal interests in State Farm and, most importantly, his previous The Chairman discussed the conclusions on each individual director, business objectives.
Other procedures which may assist the effectiveness The Articles of Association of the Company provide that, following a directorship of State Farm did not, in practice, affect his independent including the performances of executive directors in respect of their of internal controls, such as whistle blowing procedures whereby any directors election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting judgement as an Amlin director.
boardroom as opposed to executive roles, at private meetings with the member of staff may take matters of concern direct to the head of immediately following his or her initial appointment by the Board, no director directors.
Executive directors managerial roles continue to be assessed as Audit & Compliance or, if appropriate, to the Chairman of the Company or Lord Stewartby has been a director since October 1995.
Notwithstanding may serve in office in excess of three years before being required to submit part of the Groups executive Performance Development Review process, the senior independent non-executive director, have been put in place and provision A.
3.1 of the Code regarding Board service of more than nine himself or herself to shareholders for re-election.
Details of the procedures in respect of which the Chief Executives performance is reviewed by the are reviewed annually.
years, the Board has continued to classify him as independent, bearing in whereby appointments and re-appointments to the Board are considered Chairman.
mind that the merger of the Company with Murray Lawrence in 1998 so Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant on a formal, rigorous and transparent manner, on merit and against transformed the size and scope of the Companys business as to render the The Chairmans own evaluation was conducted by the non-executive identified control failings or weaknesses.
The Board has put in place a objective criteria, are set out in the Report from the Nomination Committee.
earlier service of questionable relevance.
The Board has also been mindful directors led by the Deputy Chairman.
Conclusions were discussed and management structure with defined lines of responsibility and delegation From the start of the year the Board comprised: the Chairman, five other of the need to maintain sufficient continuity on the Board and on the Audit agreed with the Chairman by the Deputy Chairman.
The Group also operates a financial performance monitoring non-executive directors of whom four were classified as independent and Committee, which Lord Stewartby chaired until September 2005 and of process involving detailed reporting against budgets and the preparation As the second such exercise, the results of the evaluations were able to be one not and four executive directors.
The only change to the Board during which he remains a member, where his specific longer term experience of of longer term projections.
In addition there is reporting to the Board in the compared with the previous years, with areas of improvement noted.
the year was the appointment on 15 December 2005 of an additional the Company has been valuable, particularly during the period leading up ordinary course of business on key risk management processes, which Both this and the previous evaluation provided useful feedback for all independent non-executive director, Mr Richard Davey.
Directors to Syndicate 2001s final reinsurance to close involving third party capital.
are described in more detail in the Risk management section of the OFR.
concerned and were also taken into account by the Nomination Committee biographical details are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The Board considers that Lord Stewartby has remained robustly The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee which reviews when considering specifications for new non-executive directors, succession independent in character and judgement and, having no relationships that the following main processes established by the Company to review the The Board continues to satisfy itself that the Chairman has sufficient time planning and nominations for re-election at the AGM.
are relevant to such independence, his circumstances are not such as to effectiveness of internal control: available to devote to his duties as non-executive Chairman of Amlin.
require that his independent status should be altered.
Relations with shareholders Regular reporting by each division and central function through an He entered into a minimum time commitment to Amlin from 2004 onwards The Company has been committed for many years to a process of integrated risk management system on the main risks to the achievement of 75 days per annum.
Each of the other non-executive directors has also From June 2002 to September 2004 Mr Kemp was temporarily Chief continuing dialogue with its shareholders.
In addition to usual briefings on of Group objectives and on the nature and effectiveness of the controls made the following minimum annual time commitments to the Company: Financial Officer of Montpelier Re Holdings Limited Montpelier, with which financial results, the Company made appropriate contact during the year and other management processes to manage these risks.
Significant the Groups managed syndicate already had a qualifying quota share Deputy Chairman, Chairman of the Audit with institutional investors and their representative bodies, both as issues or risks and the actions taken to manage those risks are regularly reviewed arrangement on commercial terms prior to his appointment to that Committee until 31 August 2005 and a member developments arose and through a series of lunches between some of the by the Groups Risk Committee which comprises senior executives and is position.
The Board considered that this should not alter his independent of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees larger shareholders and non-executive directors led by the Chairman with chaired by the head of Audit & Compliance.
The Risk Committee reports status.
However, for commercial reasons the syndicate entered into more Lord Stewartby : 35 days the Chief Executive in attendance.
to each meeting of the Audit Committee: substantive reinsurance arrangements with Montpelier from January 2004 A self-certification process whereby senior managers report on those Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and again on commercial terms.
Although Mr Kemp was not involved in the Shareholder views on the Company are the subject of specific reports at parts of the systems for which each of them is responsible: and a member of the Nomination and negotiation of these arrangements, the Board considered that the business Board meetings at least twice annually and an independently conducted Internal audit and compliance monitoring work carried out by the Groups Audit Committees Mr Mylvaganam : 30 days relationship between Amlin and Montpelier, of which Mr Kemp presently survey of institutional shareholders investment criteria, and their perceptions Audit & Compliance function, which also provides compliance advice.
remains a non-executive director, had become sufficiently material that it of the Company, its management and its investor communications, is Chairman of the Audit Committee 30 days 25 days when The head of Audit & Compliance reports to the Group Chief Executive was no longer appropriate for Mr Kemp to be classified as independent.
conducted approximately every eighteen months.
Further details of investor from 1 September 2005 and a member of the a member, but and to the Audit Committee.
The Group has established a continuous This remains the position to date.
relations activities are included in the relevant section of the Operating and Remuneration Committee Mr Buchanan : not Chairman, of the audit and compliance programme for reviewing and evaluating the Financial Review OFR.
Audit Committee until Mr Kemps re-classification in 2004 meant that, instead of at least half the internal controls and compliance procedures used in the management 31 August 2005 Board being independent non-executive directors, until 15 December 2005 Annual General Meeting participation and voting of risk.
independents excluding the Chairman comprised less than half the Board.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, when Other non-executive directors Messrs Davey Going concern The Board believed that the continuing value of Mr Kemp to the Board a presentation on the Groups progress is made each year.
The Company from appointment in December 2005, The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources to outweighed this consideration but is pleased that the appointment of an also attaches importance to encouraging a high level of voting participation Joslin and Kemp : 20 days continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Group financial additional independent non-executive director in December 2005 has at its general meetings, receiving proxies representing 69%, 76% and 74% statements therefore continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
brought the Board fully into compliance with the Combined Code.
This of its shares in issue at its 2003, 2004 and 2005 AGMs respectively.
Details Further details of the terms of appointment of both the non-executive and position is expected to be maintained during 2006. of electronic proxy voting, which was made available for the first time for the Summary of Combined Code compliance executive directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report, 2005 AGM, are included in the 2006 AGM circular and Notice of Meeting.
During the year ended 31 December 2005 the Company was in compliance which refers to executive service contracts and non-executive letters of Board information and professional development The totals of proxy votes on each resolution, including details of any votes with all of the provisions of section 1 companies of the Combined Code appointment, copies of both of which are available for inspection at the In addition to information about the Company, all directors are provided withheld i. e. deliberately abstained, are announced after each resolution with the exception of provision A.
For the reasons set out above in Companys registered office.
with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public has been dealt with on a show of hands and the full proxy voting results also Board independence, for most of the year at least half the Board, company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, accounting and insurance Board independence announced through a regulatory news service and on the Companys excluding the Chairman, did not comprise non-executive directors industry matters, including during 2005 through web access to a directors The non-executive Chairman was independent, in terms of the new website.
In the event of a close result as indicated by the proxies held by the determined by the Board to be independent, the relevant proportion being update service.
Update sessions on technical and or industry matters are Combined Code, on his appointment in 1998. chairman of the meeting, it is the Companys policy that the chairman would four out of nine.
From December 2005 this provision has been complied included regularly as part of Board meetings and, in addition, the Company call a poll, but this has not yet proved necessary.
with, the proportion being five out of ten.
Apart from Mr Kemp, all the non-executive directors serving during or since encourages, facilitates and monitors other professional development for the year were determined by the Board as being independent in character both executive and non-executive directors as is required for their particular Accountability and internal control Other than set out in this Summary of Combined Code compliance and judgement with in the words of the Combined Code no relationships roles and responsibilities.
The Company maintains a model director The Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and section, the Company has been in full compliance with the Code provisions or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the induction programme, which is tailored to suit the needs of any new director managing its significant risks.
This process has been in place throughout set out in section 1 companies of the Code throughout, and since, the year directors judgement.
The director who joined the Board during the year, the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Mr Davey, undertook the programme early in 2006. and its findings are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee, which Until 31 December 2002 Mr Joslin was Vice Chairman of State Farm Mutual reports on the matter to the Board, and accords with the guidance in the By Order of the Board Automobile Insurance Company State Farm, which is a 7.3% shareholder Board evaluation document Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the in the Company previously 9.8% and until November 2004 provided In December 2005 and January 2006 the Board undertook its second Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in October material Letter of Credit facilities to the Group on commercial terms.
annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and 2005.
As discussed in more detail in the Corporate responsibility section As stated in the 2003 and 2004 Annual Reports, Mr Joslin has been each director.
The evaluations were initiated by a comprehensive of the Directors report, this process explicitly includes the risks, and classified as independent since 1 January 2004, notwithstanding provision questionnaire completed by each director giving his assessment of both opportunities to enhance value, arising from social, environmental and A.
3.1 of the Code which suggests that a three year period should elapse collective and individual performances, including self-evaluation.
The directors are responsible for the Companys systems of following such a relationship.
From 1 January 2006 such period has now The results of the evaluation of the Board as a whole were summarised internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of these systems, which elapsed, but during 2005 the Board continued to make an exception to the by the Chairman and, at its meeting in January 2006, the Board agreed are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against three year guideline as neither State Farm nor the Board considered him as C C T Pender Secretary its conclusions.
Each Board Committee also evaluated its performance, material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
They are any form of conduit of information between them, he had no continuing 9 March 2006 and reported and discussed its findings with the Board.
also designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 50 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 51 Corporate Governance report Activities Activities Report from the Nomination Committee Report from the Audit Committee Early in the year the Committee agreed a specification for the appointment In addition to reviewing the Companys interim and preliminary results Purpose Purpose of two independent non-executive directors.
Working with its appointed statements and its Annual Report, the Committee reviewed and reported to The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending Board The Audit Committee concentrates on the reporting, control and external search consultants, the Committee recommended Mr Richard the Board on: the managed syndicates Annual Report: the external appointments to the Board, and considering succession planning compliance aspects of the directors and the Groups responsibilities, Davey to the Board for appointment in December 2005.
The Committee auditors engagement and service plan: the plans, work undertaken and issues, so that the Board and its Committees comprise directors, both providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to has also recommended a second candidate, who is expected to be recommendations made during the year by the Groups Audit & Compliance executive and non-executive, with the appropriate balance of executive management in these areas.
Its aim is to ensure that high appointed to the Board later in March.
Department: the external auditors independence and the extent and experience and qualities to deliver the strategic direction, standards of corporate reporting, controls and compliance are reasons for them providing non-audit services a breakdown of the fees for On the completion of a number of non-executive directors terms of office, entrepreneurial leadership, values, standards and framework of achieved, in the belief that excellence in these areas enhances the which is set out in note 11 to the Accounts : the Groups whistle blowing the Committee also considered and recommended their renomination at controls that the Company needs to deliver its vision.
effectiveness, and reduces the risks, of the business.
procedures: and other related matters.
Reports were received from the the 2005 AGM.
The Committee also recommended to the Board changes external auditors in respect of each set of financial statements, highlighting Membership Membership in committee appointments including a new chairman of the Audit the material judgemental areas, which were then discussed by the The Nomination Committee the Committee was chaired throughout the The following have been members of the Audit Committee the Committee Committee.
Succession planning continued to be kept under review, with a Committee with executive management and the auditors at the relevant year by the Chairman of the Company, who is non-executive.
Its other during the year and up to the date of this report: Lord Stewartby chairman particular focus during the year on non-executive director succession.
four members throughout 2005 and in 2006 to date have been three until 31 August 2005, Mr Buchanan chairman from 1 September 2005, The Committee considered in early 2006 the renomination of the executive independent non-executive directors, Lord Stewartby, Mr Joslin and Mr Joslin and Mr Mylvaganam.
In addition, Mr Davey has been a member Reports from the external auditors were also received on the opening directors at the 2006 AGM and concluded that it was appropriate that each Mr Mylvaganam, and the Chief Executive.
of the Committee since 15 December 2005 when he joined the Board.
balance sheet under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, of them should be nominated for re-election.
being adopted by the Company from 2005, with special attention being Terms of reference All of the members of the Committee were at all times classified by the A self-evaluation was conducted by the Committee of its own composition, paid to the significant changes, judgemental areas and new accounting All proposals for appointment, election or re-election to the Board, whether Board as independent.
Throughout the year there have been a number procedures, contribution and effectiveness, the conclusions of which were policies involved.
in a non-executive or executive capacity, are considered by the Committee, of members with recent and relevant financial experience, including agreed at its meeting in January 2006. which makes recommendations to the Board.
Renomination of directors to Mr Buchanan and Mr Joslin.
Procedures were operated throughout the year for the approval of any the relevant Annual General Meeting is considered on a case by case basis appointments of the external auditors or its associated entities to provide The Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief Executive, the Finance By Order of the Board, before recommendations are made.
The Committees terms of reference material non-audit services.
The Committee has remained satisfied that the Director and the head of Audit & Compliance usually attend the on the recommendation of its Nomination Committee include responsibility for keeping under review and advising the Board on provision of such non-audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP has not Committees meetings.
At least once a year the Committee meets, both on such areas as the Boards structure and composition, the leadership compromised the auditors impartiality or independence.
its own and with the external auditors, without any executive management required to ensure the continued competitiveness of the Company, present.
The Committee also meets the head of Audit & Compliance at least Details of the Committees role regarding internal control issues are set out succession planning and committee appointments.
No director may once a year without any other executive management present.
in the Accountability and internal control section of the Board corporate participate in any decision regarding his or her own position.
of reference are available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Terms of reference Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary on The Committees terms of reference enable it to take an independent view The Committee also monitored the Groups compliance with Financial request.
of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
Services Authority, Lloyds and other regulatory requirements and It also considers the appointment and fees both audit and non-audit of the C C T Pender Secretary recommendations.
Reports to the Committee from the Groups Meetings external auditors, who have unrestricted access to it, and monitors the 9 March 2006 Audit & Compliance department included summaries of the findings of The Committee meets as frequently as is required to fulfil its duties.
Groups compliance, internal control and risk management procedures.
The internal audit reports, enabling members of the Committee to question the When there are not specific recommendations or decisions to be made, Committees terms of reference, which take full account of the Smith Report head of Audit & Compliance on such reports and to monitor the measures the Chairman consults members of the Committee between meetings.
on the role of audit committees, are available in the Corporate Governance taken by management to respond to issues raised.
The Committee met twice during 2004. section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the During the year the Committee was updated on technical accounting Nomination Committee attendance 2005 Company Secretary on request.
The terms of reference apply on a Number of meetings developments by the external auditors and by the Group Finance Director, Group-wide basis and thus they apply equally to the new Bermudian Committee member attended and a self-evaluation of its composition, procedures, contribution and operations set up in December 2005 as they do to the rest of the Group.
R S Joslin 2 effectiveness was conducted by the Committee and reported to the Board Meetings R W Mylvaganam 1 in January 2006.
The Committee meets a minimum of four times a year.
It met four times C E L Philipps 2 during 2005, when attendance by committee members was as follows: Lord Stewartby 2 By Order of the Board, R J Taylor 2 on the recommendation of its Audit Committee Audit Committee attendance 2005 Average % attendance 90% Number of meetings Committee member attended N J C Buchanan 4 R S Joslin 4 R W Mylvaganam 3 Lord Stewartby 4 Average % attendance 94% C C T Pender Secretary Mr Davey joined the Committee after its final meeting of the year.
9 March 2006 52 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 53
