Aviva plc 2005 Governance 52 Governance Board of directors 1 2 Executive directors 5 6 Non-executive directors 10 11 1.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 63 7.
Wim Dik 67 Group chief executive Chairman Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2000 and became Appointed to the board in January 2005 and became Appointed to the board in December 1999, having group chief executive in April 2001.
Joined Norwich chairman from 1 January 2006.
Currently chairman served as chairman of Nuts Ohra, a Dutch insurer Union in 1992, holding senior positions in New Zealand of Aegis Group plc media services, an independent acquired by the group in 1999.
Currently chairman and the UK before joining the Norwich Union board in non-executive director of BG Group plc utility and of the supervisory board of Casema Holding B. V. 1995 and becoming group chief executive of Norwich Reed Elsevier plc publisher and a member of the telecommunications and Tele Atlas N. V. information Union in 1998.
Former chairman of the Association of supervisory board of ABN AMRO NV banking.
systems, a non-executive director of Unilever N. V. British Insurers.
Former chairman of KPMG International auditors, and Unilever plc consumer and of LogicaCMG plc former deputy chairman of Group 4 Securicor plc computer services.
Former Minister for Foreign Trade Member of the nomination and corporate social security services and a former independent nonin the Netherlands.
A former chairman of Nederlandse responsibility committees.
executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery PLC drinks Unilever Bedrijven B. V. consumer and former chairman and AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
and chief executive officer of KPN Royal Dutch Telecom 2.
A former chairman of the Chairman of the nomination committee and member Group finance director supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and a of the corporate social responsibility committee.
Appointed to the board in May 2004 upon joining former member of the supervisory boards of TNT Post the company.
Previously director finance, risk Group mail services, Vos Logistics transport and 6.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa 64 management and operations in Lloyds insurance ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Independent non-executive director and formerly held a number of senior management Senior independent director, Chairman of the corporate positions at HSBC plc banking.
Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board social responsibility committee and member of the of Norwich Union as a non-executive director in 1999. nomination, governance and regulatory committees.
Philip Scott FIA 52 Currently non-executive chairman of Avivas operations in Spain, non-executive vice-chairman of Goldman Executive director 8.
Mary Francis CBE 57 Sachs Europe banking and a director of Campofrio Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined Norwich Independent non-executive director consumer, Unin Elctrica Fenosa utility, Bank Union in 1973 and held a number of senior positions Santander Central Hispano banking and Telepizza Appointed to the board in October 2005. before joining the Norwich Union board in 1993. consumer.
Chairman for the Centre of Economic Currently a non-executive director of Centrica plc Currently responsible for the groups international Policy Research and a member of the Group of Thirty utilities, St Modwen Properties plc property insurance businesses and United Kingdom fund consultative group on international economic and development, a director of the Bank of England management operations.
A former deputy governor of the and Fund Distribution Limited.
A member of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, a advisory board of the National Consumer Council and 4.
Patrick Snowball 55 former deputy general manager of the Bank of Spain Governor of the Pensions Policy Institute.
A former Executive director and former Secretary of State of Finance in Spain.
Director General of the Association of British Insurers Appointed to the board in March 2001.
Joined the and senior civil servant.
Member of the nomination and corporate social group in 1989, holding a number of senior positions responsibility committees.
Member of the remuneration and governance and before joining the board of Norwich Union in 1999. regulatory committees.
Currently responsible for the groups United Kingdom businesses namely Norwich Union Insurance, Norwich Union Life and RAC.
A member of the Financial Services Authoritys Practitioner Panel.
Russell Walls 62 Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently a Appointed to the board in August 1995.
Currently Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive director of the Warnaco Group Inc non-executive chairman of The Airline Group Limited non-executive director of Signet Group plc retail and clothing, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation transport and non-executive director of NATS Holdings the senior independent director of Stagecoach Group Freddie Mac financial services, New Germany Limited transport.
A member of the financial sector plc transport.
A former group finance director of BAA Fund investment trust and a director of The London committee of the Accounting Standards Board, plc transport, Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals and School of Economics and Political Science.
A former chairman of The Royal Academy of Arts Pension Coats Viyella plc textiles.
Former non-executive director chief financial officer of American Express Company Scheme Board, a trustee of the Rothschild pension of Hilton Group plc leisure and the Mersey Docks and financial services, NatWest Group plc banking and funds, a member of the Council of the Institute of Harbour Company transport.
The Seagram Company Ltd drinks and a former Education at the University of London and chairman of Chairman of the governance and regulatory committee member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
A former director and and member of the audit committee.
chief financial officer of British Airways Plc transport, Chairman of the remuneration committee and member a former finance director of TSB Group plc banking Richard Whitaker LLB, DMS, FCII of the audit committee.
and a former chairman of the trustees of British Airways Group company secretary pension schemes.
Carole Piwnica 48 Chairman of the audit committee and of Aviva Staff Independent non-executive director Pension Trustee Limited and member of the corporate Appointed to the board in May 2003.
non-executive vice-chairman governmental affairs for Tate & Lyle plc agricultural industrial.
Andr Villeneuve 61 the New York and Paris bars, practising law in Europe Independent non-executive director and the United States specialising in private equity and EU regulatory matters.
A former chairman of Amylum Appointed to the board in May 1996.
non-executive chairman of Euronext Liffe financial services, a non-executive director of United Member of the audit, remuneration and corporate Technologies Corporation aerospace and a director social responsibility committees.
of the Institut Francais fide Relations Internationales.
A former executive chairman of Instinet Corporation securities broker, a former executive director of Reuters plc media and a former chairman of Promethee.
Member of the nomination and remuneration committees.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 54 Governance continued Directors report The directors submit their report and accounts for Aviva plc, The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased by together with the consolidated accounts of the Aviva Group of 113.3 million ordinary shares during the year.
87.9 million new companies, for the year ended 31 December 2005. shares were allotted in part consideration for the acquisition of RAC plc, which completed on 4 May 2005.
The balance of 25.4 million Pursuant to amendments made to the Companies Act 1985 in shares was allotted under the Groups employee share and incentive 2005 companies will be required to produce a business review as plans and the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
At 31 December 2005 part of their directors report in respect of financial years beginning the issued ordinary share capital totalled 2,395.7 million shares.
The Company has decided to comply with Details of the share capital and shares under option as at the Companies Act amendments early and the business review is 31 December 2005, and shares issued during the year, are contained on pages 16 to 49.
Certain matters that are required to given in note 27 on page 141. be disclosed within the directors report have been included within the business review.
Accordingly, the review of the Groups At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting shareholders approval operations, current position and future prospects together with will be sought to increase the Companys authorised preference a description of its principal activities are included within the share capital to 1.2 billion and a700 million by the creation of business review.
500 million new preference shares of 1 each.
Further details are set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Details of material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during the year are contained on pages 106 to 111.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2005, Results shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market The Group results for the year are shown in the consolidated purchases of up to 228 million ordinary shares, up to 100 million income statement on page 87.
3 3 8 4% preference shares and up to 100 million 8 8% preference Dividends shares.
This authority was not used during the year and at the The directors are recommending a final dividend of 17.44 pence forthcoming Annual General Meeting shareholders will be asked per share 2004: 16.00 pence, which together with the interim to renew these authorities for another year.
Details are contained dividend of 9.83 pence 2004: 9.36 pence, produces a total in the Notice of Meeting.
The Company held no Treasury shares dividend for the year of 27.27 pence per share 2004: during the year.
The total cost of ordinary dividends for 2005, Post balance sheet events will amount to 598 million 2004: 553 million, leaving There have been no material events between 31 December 1,123 million to be transferred to reserves 2004: 705 million 2005 and the date of this report which are required to be to reserves.
brought to the attention of shareholders.
The final dividend for 2005 will be paid on 17 May 2006 to all Directors holders of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the close The following persons served as directors of the Company during of business on 10 March 2006.
The Companys Scrip Dividend the year: Scheme will be available to shareholders in respect of the payment of the final dividend.
In addition, a local currency payment service Guillermo fide la Dehesa will be available to shareholders residing in certain participating Wim Dik countries outside the UK.
Further details of these arrangements can Mary Francis appointed 1 October 2005 be found within the shareholder services on page 223.
Richard Karl Goeltz Pehr Gyllenhammar retired 31 December 2005 Share capital Richard Harvey At the Annual General Meeting, held on 26 April 2005, Andrew Moss shareholders approved an increase in the Companys authorised George Paul retired 31 December 2005 share capital from 950 million to 1.45 billion and a700 million Carole Piwnica by the creation of 500 million preference shares of 1 each and Philip Scott 700 million preference shares of a1 each.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch appointed 14 January 2005 Derek Stevens Patrick Snowball Elizabeth Vallance retired 31 December 2005 Andr Villeneuve Russell Walls The biographical details of the persons currently serving as directors appear on pages 52 to 53.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 55 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors Substantial shareholdings appointed during the year by the Board are required to retire at the The Companys register of substantial shareholdings is maintained in first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and accordance with the provisions of s. 211 of the Companies Act stand for election by shareholders.
At 1 March 2006, the register showed that the holdings Sharman was appointed as an independent non-executive director exceeding the 3% disclosure threshold were those of Barclays Plc of the Company.
He retired at the 2005 Annual General Meeting which held 109,751,163 ordinary shares 4.57% and Legal & and was subsequently elected by the shareholders.
On 1 October General Group Plc which held 81,072,340 ordinary shares 3.38% 2005, Mary Francis was appointed by the Board as an independent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Mrs Francis will retire at the forthcoming Financial instruments Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer herself for Group companies use financial instruments to manage certain types election by shareholders.
Mrs Francis does not have a service of risks including those relating to credit, foreign currency exchange, contract with a Group company.
cash ow, liquidity, interest rates, equity and property prices.
Details The Companys Articles of Association require one-third of the of the objectives and management of these instruments are directors to retire by rotation each year.
At the forthcoming Annual contained in the Business Review on pages 16 to 49 and an General Meeting Richard Harvey, Carole Piwnica, Philip Scott and indication of the exposure of the Group companies to such risks is Patrick Snowball will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves contained in note 51 to the accounts on page 188. for re-election.
Richard Harvey, Philip Scott and Patrick Snowball Health and safety are executive directors and each has a service contract with a The health and safety of staff is a priority and is reviewed at regular Group company, details of which can be found on page 69. intervals.
Each business within the Group has an appointed health Independent non-executive directors Derek Stevens and Andr and safety representative, whose role is to bring to the attention of Villeneuve were re-elected by shareholders at last years Annual senior management any areas of concern that should be addressed General Meeting.
Both these directors have now served on the within the health and safety programme.
Board for more than nine years and therefore will retire and seek Information on health and safety matters is communicated to staff re-election again at this years meeting.
However, subject to being through the normal communication channels.
Under the Groups re-elected, it is intended that these directors will retire on or before Health and Safety Policy the Group Chief Executive is accountable 31 December 2006 in line with the Boards plans to renew and for health and safety.
Charitable donations Pehr Gyllenhammar, the chairman of the Board since 1998, retired Aviva has continued to support community initiatives and charitable on 31 December 2005 and was succeeded as chairman by Lord causes worldwide and the total Group commitment during the Sharman on 1 January 2006.
George Paul and Elizabeth Vallance, year, as measured in accordance with Business in the Communitys both independent non-executive directors, also retired from PerCent Standard, was over 5.7 million 2004: 4.6 million.
the Board on 31 December 2005 in line with the Companys succession plans.
In 2005, the Groups community investment in the United Kingdom totalled 3.9 million 2004: 3.4 million of which 1.7 million Directors interests and indemnity arrangements 2004: 1.3 million was given in the form of donations to At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest charitable organisations.
The Company allocates a part of its budget in any contract of signicance with the Company or any of its to matching contributions raised by staff and to providing financial subsidiary undertakings other than a third party indemnity provision support to charities and communities where members of staff give between each director and the Company and service contracts a personal commitment in terms of their time.
In addition, the between each executive director and a Group company.
Company provides a significant level of support to a small number The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year of national charities.
During 2005, the Company continued its directors and ofcers liability insurance in respect of itself and its commitment to Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Wheelpower directors.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity the British wheelchair sports association and The Princess Royal provision contained in the Companys articles of association.
In addition, the Group supported the Make A Wish The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit Foundation UK, which was chosen by staff in the United Kingdom of each director of the Company, and each person who was a as their charity of the year, and NCH the childrens charity.
director of the Company during the year, in respect of liabilities The Group and its staff worldwide made substantial donations which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the to the Asian Tsunami appeal in 2005.
Company or of associated companies.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened by s. 309B of the Companies Act 1985, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 74.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 56 Governance continued Directors report continued Political donations Auditor and the disclosure of information to the auditor It is the Companys policy not to make donations to political So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving organisations or for political causes, and it does not intend to this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being change this policy.
Accordingly, no political donations were made information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its in the United Kingdom or elsewhere during the year 2004: nil.
report, of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and the Companys auditor, each director has taken In 2004, shareholders passed a resolution authorising the Board all the steps that he she is obliged to take as a director in order to to incur expenditure, up to an aggregate limit of 100,000 make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to per annum, on activities that fall under the Political Parties, Elections establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
The PPER introduced a very broad denition of political expenditure, such that some of the In accordance with s. 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution activities undertaken throughout the Groups businesses could is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the arguably fall within that denition.
The Board sought shareholders reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
authority to incur such expenditure in order to avoid any A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to inadvertent breaches of the PPER.
The Board does not believe that determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee the Group has incurred any such political expenditure in the past reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness year.
The Boards authority to incur such political expenditure expires and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and in 2008. non-audit fees paid.
Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee Group employees Report on pages 62 and 63.
The Groups statement on its employees is set out on pages 44 and 45.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on In summary, the Groups commitment to communication and 10 May 2006 at The Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London dialogue with employees continues.
A strong emphasis is placed EC2Y 8DS at 11.00am.
A separate document accompanying the on the provision of news through a variety of media, including Annual Report and Accounts contains the notice convening the intranets both a Group-wide intranet, Arena, and local business Meeting and a description of the business to be conducted thereat.
unit intranets, Aviva radio, which can be accessed via mobile phone or computer, and poster campaigns.
Employees have opportunities By order of the Board.
to voice their opinions and ask questions through intranet sites and climate surveys.
Face to face briengs and team meetings are Richard Whitaker actively encouraged and are held in all business units across the Group Company Secretary Group.
During 2005 the Groups businesses in the United Kingdom 1 March 2006 established employee consultative forums.
Registered Ofce: St. Helens Employee practice 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Aviva Group companies are committed to providing equal Registered in England No.
2468686 opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their sex, sexual orientation, marital status, creed, colour, race, ethnic origin or disability.
The commitment extends to recruitment and selection, training, career development, exible working arrangements and promotion and performance appraisal.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and to provide specialised training where this is appropriate.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for payment.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
Aviva plc, the holding company of the Group, has no trade creditors.
In respect of Group activities in the UK, the amounts due to trade creditors at 31 December 2005 represented approximately 8 days of average daily purchases through the year 2004: 11 days.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 57 Corporate governance The Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board and its committees operate in line with a work plan The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out guidance agreed prior to the start of each year.
At Board meetings, directors in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should receive regular reports on the Groups financial position, risk be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
management, regulatory compliance, key business operations The Financial Services Authority requires companies listed in the and other material issues.
Directors are fully briefed in advance of United Kingdom to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Board and committee meetings on all matters to be discussed.
Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether The Group Company Secretary is responsible for following Board they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting procedures and advising the Board, through the Chairman, year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with companies on governance matters.
All directors have access to his advice must provide an explanation.
It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant The Chairman and the non-executive directors met on two throughout the accounting period with the provisions set down occasions in the absence of the executive directors during 2005 in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that as the Chairman to discuss the executive directors performance and succession would be retiring on 31 December 2005 no performance review of planning.
the Chairman was carried out during the year.
This report sets out details of how the Company has applied the principles and The directors complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during 2005.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, eight independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
Each The Board non-executive director serves for a xed term not exceeding three The Board of directors meets regularly to determine the Groups years that may be renewed by mutual agreement.
Subject to the strategic direction, to review its operating and financial Board being satisfied with a directors performance, independence performance, to oversee that it is adequately resourced and and commitment, there is no specified limit regarding the number effectively controlled.
The specic duties of the Board are clearly set of terms a director may serve.
All directors are required to be out in terms of reference which address a wide range of corporate elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following governance issues and list those items that are specically reserved their appointment by the Board and re-elected at least once every for decision by the Board.
Matters requiring Board approval include: three years.
Non-executive directors who have served on the Board Strategy and business plans: for nine years or more are required to submit themselves for reelection annually.
Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: The Boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive directors who can apply their wider knowledge and experiences to their Financial reporting and controls: understanding of the Aviva Group, and to review and refresh Capital structure: regularly the skills and experience it requires through a programme of rotational retirement.
In addition to the strengths of experience, Dividend policy: diversity and an international perspective, the Board also seeks Shareholder documentation: to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code on the independence of directors.
The process for appointing new directors The constitution of Board committees: is conducted by the Nomination Committee whose report, Key business policies including the remuneration policy.
including a description of its duties, is set out on page 64.
Matters which are not specically reserved to the Board and its Against the above background the Board appointed two new committees under its terms of reference, or to shareholders in independent non-executive directors in 2005, Lord Sharman of General Meeting, are delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
Redlynch in January and Mary Francis in October.
The biographical The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters which details of these directors are set out on pages 52 and 53.
Lord must be reported to the Board, such as significant litigation or Sharman brought to the Board a strong financial background material regulatory breaches, and cover how matters requiring having spent his career at KPMG, becoming its international consideration by the Board that arise between scheduled Board chairman, and has served on the boards of a number of listed meetings are dealt with.
companies in the United Kingdom and Europe.
Lord Sharman was elected by shareholders at the Companys 2005 Annual General The Board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in the Meeting and in August 2005, it was announced that he would performance of their duties, seek independent professional advice succeed Pehr Gyllenhammar on 1 January 2006 as the chairman of at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
Mary Francis has held a number of senior positions in obtained any such independent professional advice during 2005.
HM Treasury and more recently served as the Director General of the Association of British Insurers until March 2005, during which time she gained a detailed knowledge of the insurance industry, its issues and regulation.
Mrs Francis will retire and seek election by shareholders at the Companys 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 58 Governance continued Corporate governance continued In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the The Chairman directors retiring, and proposed for re-election at the forthcoming The respective roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are Annual General Meeting, are Richard Harvey, Carole Piwnica, set out in the Boards terms of reference.
The Chairmans priority Philip Scott and Patrick Snowball.
Richard Harvey is the Groups is the management of the Board and the Group Chief Executives Chief Executive.
Philip Scott is the executive director responsible priority is the management of the Company.
for the Groups international businesses and Morley, the Pehr Gyllenhammar served as the Chairman from 1998 until his United Kingdom fund management business.
Patrick Snowball is retirement from the Board on 31 December 2005.
He was the executive director responsible for the Groups UK businesses succeeded by Lord Sharman on 1 January 2006.
There were no namely Norwich Union Insurance, Norwich Union Life and RAC.
significant changes to Pehr Gyllenhammars commitments during Carole Piwnica is an independent non-executive director who joined the year.
Lord Sharmans main duties outside the Company are the Board in 2003.
She is a non-executive vice-chairman of Tate & set out in his biographical details on pages 52 and 53.
He resigned Lyle plc, practices law in the United States and Europe and is a from the board of Group 4 Securicor plc on 31 December 2005 in member of the Companys Audit, Remuneration and Corporate anticipation of the time commitment he would need to give to the Social Responsibility committees.
Lord Sharmans contractual commitment to the Derek Stevens and Andr Villeneuve have both served as directors Company is two to three days per week.
for more than nine years and will therefore retire at the Annual Senior independent director General Meeting and seek re-election.
However, in line with the The main responsibility of the senior independent director is to be Boards succession plans, it is the intention that subject to being available to shareholders should they have concerns that they have re-elected, they will both retire on or before 31 December 2006. been unable to resolve through normal channels, or when such Derek Stevens is a member of the financial sector committee of the channels would be inappropriate.
The senior independent director Accounting Standards Board and is a former Chief Financial officer is also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on the of British Airways plc and of the TSB Group plc.
He is able to Chairmans performance and the appointment of a new chairman, contribute recent and relevant financial experience and is the when appropriate.
George Paul served as Deputy Chairman and chairman of the Boards Audit Committee and a member of the as the senior independent director throughout 2005.
Mr Paul Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Andr Villeneuve has retired from the Board on 31 December 2005 and Wim Dik was knowledge of broking and financial markets and wide general appointed as the senior independent director on 25 January 2006. management experience in the United Kingdom and the United States.
He is a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Board effectiveness committees.
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
The Company undertakes an annual performance review to assess The Combined Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding how well the Board, its committees and directors are performing.
the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive Directors complete a condential questionnaire on the Board and directors as determined by the Board.
The Nomination Committee committees processes, their effectiveness and areas where they performs an annual review of directors interests in which all may be improved.
The process also includes a peer review in which potential or perceived conicts, including time commitments, directors assess their own and their fellow directors performance length of service and other issues relevant to their independence, against set criteria, including the skills which they bring to the are considered.
It is the Boards view that, in addition to being free Company and the contribution they make.
This process is of any conicts, an independent non-executive director also needs complemented by separate meetings between each director and to be able to present an objective, rigorous and constructive the Chairman.
The Board discussed the feedback from the 2005 challenge to management, drawing on his her wider experiences to process when it met in October and a number of actions were question assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary defend agreed.
The review was conducted by the Chairman with the their beliefs.
To be effective, an independent director requires a assistance of the Group Company Secretary.
sound understanding of the insurance industry and the Company so as to be able to properly evaluate the information provided.
The performance of the Chairman is also reviewed annually using Having considered the matter carefully the Board is of the opinion a peer review process.
Directors are asked for their views on the that all of the current non-executive directors are independent and Chairmans performance against the key aspects of the role.
free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect, or At a subsequent Board meeting, the Chairman leaves the meeting appear to affect their independent judgement.
whilst a summary of the views expressed by the directors is used as an introduction for discussion.
This process is managed by the All the directors being proposed for re-election have been subject senior independent director who subsequently provides feedback to to a formal performance evaluation and took part in a peer the Chairman.
It has become the Boards practice to undertake the assessment review during 2005, other than Mary Francis who Chairmans review in December each year.
However, because Pehr was not a director at the time.
Gyllenhammar would be retiring from the Board at the end of Biographical details of all the directors, including those proposed December, no review was performed in 2005. for election or re-election, are set out on pages 52 and 53.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 59 Training and development Board committees The Board believes strongly in the development of all its employees, The Board has established a number of standing committees including its directors and it is a requirement of directors to oversee and debate important issues of policy and oversight appointments that they commit to continue their development.
outside the main Board meetings.
The Chairmen of each The form of this development is subject to each directors committee provide the Board with a summary of the key issues requirements and the quality and relevance of the training available.
considered and the minutes of their meetings are circulated to the During the year individual directors attended a number of external Board.
The committees operate within dened terms of reference, courses on issues ranging from an international directors forum to copies of which are published on the Companys website a seminar on pensions simplication.
In addition, directors received www.
com or are available from the Group Company two tailored training sessions outside of the formal Board meetings Secretary upon request.
Board committees are authorised to regarding international financial reporting standards and the engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary, assessment of the Groups capital requirements.
Further tailored at the Companys expense.
training sessions have been built into the Boards work plan for The reports of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 2006.
The Board made two site visits during the year to gain a committees are set out below.
closer understanding of the Groups businesses.
In January 2006, the Board established two new committees: During 2005 Lord Sharman and Mary Francis each completed detailed induction programmes.
The initial programme, which Corporate Social Responsibility Committee in order to was undertaken over a number of months, comprised 13 separate maintain and build further on the Companys leading position sessions, including discussions with key members of senior this committee will provide guidance and direction to the management, visits to the Groups main operating businesses and Groups corporate social responsibility programme and monitor meetings with the external auditor and one of the Companys its progress.
Subsequently, both directors arranged follow-up Membership of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee sessions in areas where they felt that a deeper understanding comprises Wim Dik chairman, Guillermo fide la Dehesa, would be beneficial.
Richard Harvey, Carole Piwnica, Lord Sharman and Directors attendance Derek Stevens.
The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the Governance and Regulatory Committee in order to maintain Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote the Groups strong governance and compliance disciplines sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
this committee will provide leadership and oversight of the On occasions it may be necessary to call or rearrange meetings Groups governance processes including regulatory at short notice and it is recognised that in such circumstances compliance.
The work of this committee will form an it may be difficult for all directors, particularly those based overseas, important part of the Groups control function and as such the to attend.
The attendance of the directors at the Board and Committee will work closely with the Audit Committee.
committee meetings held in 2005 was as follows: Membership of the Governance and Regulatory Committee Board and Board committee attendance 2005 comprises Russell Walls chairman, Mary Francis and Wim Dik.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Internal controls The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining the systems Number of meetings held9583 of internal control of the Company and for reviewing their Number of meetings attended effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Guillermo fide la Dehesa 7 9 2 3 can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Wim Dik 8 9 6 8 2 3 material financial misstatement or loss.
The systems are Mary Francis 3 3 designed to: Pehr Gyllenhammar 9 9 3 3 Richard Goeltz 9 9 5 5 7 8 Safeguard assets: Richard Harvey 9 9 3 3 Maintain proper accounting records: Andrew Moss 9 9 George Paul 9 9 8 8 Provide reliable financial information: Carole Piwnica 9 9 5 5 Identify and manage business risks: Philip Scott 9 9 Lord Sharman 9 9 Maintain compliance with appropriate legislation and Derek Stevens 9 9 5 5 regulation: Patrick Snowball 9 9 Identify and adopt best practice.
Elizabeth Vallance 9 9 7 8 Andr Villeneuve 9 9 8 8 3 3 The principal features of the control framework and the methods Russell Walls 9 9 5 5 by which the Board satisfies itself that it is operating effectively are detailed below.
Indicates not a member of that committee.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 60 Governance continued Corporate governance continued Control environment Control procedures and monitoring systems The Group has an established governance framework.
The Group has a well-developed system of planning and The key features include: monitoring, incorporating Board approval of a rolling three-year Group plan.
Performance against the plan is subsequently Terms of reference for the Board and each of its committees: monitored and reported to the Board each time it meets.
A clear organisational structure, with documented delegation This report also includes reports on risk, audit, compliance, of authority from the Board to executive management: solvency and liquidity.
Performance is also reported through the half-yearly publication of Group results based on accounting A Group policy framework, which sets out risk management policies that are applied consistently throughout the Group.
and control standards for the Groups operations worldwide: Operational management reports frequently to the Executive Dened procedures for the approval of major transactions and Committee and the Board receives regular representations from the capital allocation.
senior executives responsible for each principal business operation.
The Group adapted its risk and governance frameworks in 2004 The Audit Committee, and going forward the Governance and to implement the Prudential Sourcebook the Financial Services Regulatory Committee, receives regular reports on control processes Authoritys risk-based framework for integrating and embedding on behalf of the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee performs risk and capital management.
Further renements continued during an annual review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function 2005 to reect developing good practice.
and the framework for the Groups systems of internal control.
Throughout 2005, the Audit Committee received quarterly reports Risk identication, assessment and management from the Group Audit Director on issues arising, and updates on The Groups risk management and control framework is designed previously reported items.
to support the identication, assessment, monitoring, management and control of risks that are significant to the achievement of the In the Boards view, the Group maintains effective and embedded Groups business objectives.
The Group has a number of policies systems of internal control in accordance with the Guidance on relating to the management and control of both financial and non Internal Control the Turnbull Guidance and such systems were financial risks.
The adoption of these policies throughout the Group in place throughout the year and up to the date of the signing of enables a broadly consistent approach to the management of risk this report.
Group policy owners are responsible for Internal audit Group-wide aggregation and oversight of their specic risks.
The Groups internal audit function advises management on the In addition, the Group operates a number of oversight committees effectiveness of internal control systems, the adequacy of these that monitor aggregate risk data and take overall risk management systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups decisions.
In particular, the aggregation of financial risks, assets and resources.
Through the Group Audit Director, the internal including the capital impact of non-financial risks are monitored audit function provides objective assurance on risk and control to by a Group Asset and Liability Committee, chaired by the the Audit Committee.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is reviewed The Group also monitors the completeness of the risk prole on each year by the Audit Committee.
a regular basis through the Group Risk monitoring framework.
Each quarter, businesses report residual risk proles, and the Communication with shareholders adequacy of the mitigating action programmes, based on local The Company places considerable importance on communication materiality levels.
These impact assessments are based on financial, with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range reputational and operational criteria and also take into account of issues.
social, ethical and environmental risk as well as business risk.
The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings This enables the Group risk function to assess the overall risk between the executive directors and institutional investors, fund exposure and to develop a Group-wide risk prole.
This is refreshed managers and analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of quarterly and material items in the Group risk report are reported relevant issues including strategy, performance, management to the Groups Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and governance are discussed within the constraints of the from 2006 the Governance and Regulatory Committee rather information already made public.
than the Audit Committee and the Board, who consider whether residual risks are within the Groups risk appetite, and the adequacy The Companys Investor Relations Department is dedicated of the mitigating actions.
to facilitating communication with institutional investors.
The directors consider it important to understand the views of Local business unit boards, audit committees and management shareholders and in particular any issues which concern them.
also consider local risk reports in a similar way.
Regular reports are The Board receives reports on the issues which have been raised supported by escalation procedures for new or deteriorating risks with management at the regular meetings held with that are classied at the highest impact levels.
In addition, all the large investors.
During the year the Chairman and the senior business unit heads and Group functional heads provide a independent director held a meeting with the major institutional certicate every six months to confirm compliance with the Groups investors.
In addition, the senior independent director is available governance and risk management frameworks and the terms to meet with major shareholders to discuss any areas of concern of their delegated authority.
They must also specify any risk or which cannot be resolved through normal channels of investor control issues not already reported through the regular risk communication and arrangements can be made to meet the senior management processes.
independent director through the Group Company Secretary.
Similarly, arrangements can be made for major shareholders to meet with newly appointed directors.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 61 The Board consults with shareholders in connection with specic Directors responsibilities issues where it considers appropriate.
For example, the chairman The directors are required to prepare accounts for each accounting of the Remuneration Committee met with institutional shareholder period that comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies bodies and a number of major shareholders in 2004 to seek Act 1985 and of the International Financial Reporting Standards their views on the Companys proposed remuneration review.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and which present fairly It is the intention to undertake similar consultation in 2006 the financial position, financial performance and cash ows of the regarding the proposed changes to the directors pension Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period.
A fair arrangements described on pages 67 and 68. presentation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to: The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private shareholders and, on its behalf, the Group Company Secretary select suitable accounting policies and verify they are applied oversees communication with these shareholders.
The Company consistently in preparing the accounts, on a going concern issues a postage paid reply form with its Annual General Meeting basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company documentation to enable shareholders to put questions to the and the Group will continue in business: directors.
This is particularly helpful for those shareholders who are present information, including accounting policies, in a manner unable to attend the meeting.
Written responses are provided that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and through a brochure containing answers to the most frequently understandable information: asked questions which is also placed on the Companys website.
All material information reported to the regulatory news services is provide additional disclosures when compliance with the simultaneously published on the Companys website affording all specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to shareholders full access to Company announcements.
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company and the Groups financial The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a valuable position and financial performance: and opportunity for the Board to communicate with private investors.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code state that the Company has complied with applicable IFRS, as it relates to voting, the separation of resolutions and the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in attendance of committee chairmen.
Whenever possible, all directors attend the Annual General Meeting The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting records which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy, and have an opportunity to meet with the directors following the at any time, the financial position of the Company and the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
They are also ultimately responsible for the systems of voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are made internal control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the available on request and are placed on the Companys website.
assets of the Company and the Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of The Companys annual report and accounts and annual review, the systems of internal controls maintained by the Group are together with the Companys interim reports, trading statements more fully described above.
and other public announcements are designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and Going concern prospects.
The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation review, and Business Review on pages 16 to 49 provide an that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate assessment of the Groups affairs and will be supported by a resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable presentation to be made at the Annual General Meeting.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Institutional investor Morley Fund Management Limited, the Groups asset management company, believes that good governance contributes to better performance and practices.
Therefore, as a major investor, the Group monitors the governance of the companies in which it invests.
To this end, Morley holds regular meetings with the senior management of companies where it will raise matters which may affect the future performance of those companies.
Morley maintains a detailed Corporate Governance and Voting Policy as part of its investment strategy, which underpins its approach to engaging and voting at company general meetings.
The policy also extends to cover social, environmental and ethical issues.
Its policy is applied pragmatically, after careful consideration of all relevant information.
In addition, Morley makes detailed voting reports available to clients and publishes summary statistics on its website.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 62 Governance continued Audit committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and The Committee follows an agreed annual work plan.
It reviews, the work it has undertaken during the year.
with members of management and the internal and external auditors, the Companys financial announcements including the The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in discharging annual report and accounts to shareholders and associated its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial documentation.
It places particular emphasis on their fair statements, the assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of presentation and the reasonableness of the judgemental factors internal control and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal and appropriateness of significant accounting policies used in their and external auditors and the objectivity of the external auditor.
At each meeting, the Committee receives a report The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on from the Group Audit Director concerning the Companys systems the Companys website www.
com and are available from of internal control, including any significant new issues and actions the Group Company Secretary.
taken on previously reported issues.
Twice each year, the The Audit Committee Committee receives reports on the adequacy of the Groups life The Audit Committee currently comprises the following assurance and general insurance reserves.
The Committee also independent non-executive directors, appointed by the Board: reviews the annual work plan for the Groups internal audit function.
Derek Stevens Chairman Richard Karl Goeltz During 2005, the Committee received regular reports on risk Carole Piwnica management, fraud, anti money laundering, whistle blowing, Russell Walls legal and corporate governance matters to help it assess the effectiveness of the risk management and control frameworks.
There were no changes to the membership of the Committee The Group Tax and Regulatory Director reported on the Groups during 2005.
The Committee met on five occasions in 2005 and compliance with appropriate rules and regulations, highlighting each member attended every meeting.
The Group Company significant regulatory developments and compliance issues.
During Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
the early part of 2006 the responsibility for overseeing governance, Derek Stevens, a Chartered Accountant, is a member of the regulatory and compliance issues, as well as the oversight of the financial sector committee of the Accounting Standards Board and non-financial internal controls will be transferred to the Governance is a former Chief Financial officer of British Airways plc and the and Regulatory Committee which was established in January 2006.
Richard Karl Goeltz is a former Chief Financial In addition the Committee reviewed the Groups capital and risk officer of American Express Company, NatWest Group plc and frameworks against the regulatory reforms incorporated in the The Seagram Company Ltd. Russell Walls, a Fellow of the Chartered Financial Services Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook PSB Certied Accountants, is a former Group Finance Director of BAA concerning individual capital assessments ICA.
The Committee plc, Wellcome plc and Coats Viyella plc.
The Board is satisfied that considered the proposed assumptions, methodology and process all these directors have recent and relevant financial experience.
followed in determining the amount of capital required to support The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit the Groups business plans, and the adequacy of its capital Director and the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, resources.
It recommended the Groups ICA for 2005 to the Board all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of senior for submission to the Financial Services Authority.
management are also invited to attend as appropriate to present For the past three years a major programme has been in place reports.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the to manage the transformation of the Groups financial reporting services of the Group Audit Director, the Group Company Secretary framework and the Committee has received quarterly reports on and external professional advice.
In August 2005, the Committee agreed that with the successful introduction of the European Embedded Value as the basis for the supplementary reporting of the Groups life assurance results and the publication of the Groups 2005 interim results on an IFRS basis, the programme had achieved its major objectives.
Accordingly, the programme was terminated and the remaining developments are being managed in business units as part of their normal operations.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 63 Each of the Groups major business units has an audit The Company has policies aimed at safeguarding and supporting committee that provides an oversight role for their business.
the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
All such committees include members who are independent of The policies regulate the appointment of former audit employees the relevant business.
The Group Audit Director reviews the papers to senior finance positions in the Group and set out the approach and minutes from these committees and brings all significant to be taken by the Group when using the services of the auditors.
matters to the Committees attention.
It distinguishes between those matters where an independent view is required, such as audit and assurance work, and other advisory The Committee receives reports from the external auditor and services.
In addition to statutory audits, audit and assurance work regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external includes reviewing statutory returns, actuarial assurance, regulatory auditors in the absence of management.
The chairman of the advice requiring auditor reporting, due diligence on acquisitions and Committee reports at the subsequent meeting of the Board on disposals, fraud investigations and control reviews and audit the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the reviews.
As a general principle the auditor cannot be engaged by minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
the Company for any other purpose, although the policy recognises Internal audit that there may be areas of minor signicance where, for pragmatic The Groups internal audit function advises management on the reasons, it may be in the Groups interests to use the external effectiveness of internal control systems, the adequacy of these auditor for this work.
During the year the Committee also reviewed systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups independence issues in relation to PwC.
Through the Group Audit Director, the Annually, the Committee reviews a formal letter provided by internal audit function provides objective assurance on risk and the external auditor conrming its independence and objectivity control to the Committee.
The plans and level of resources of within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and the internal audit function are reviewed each year by the professional standards.
The Committee also undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function against The Group paid 10.0 million to Ernst & Young LLP for audit guidance criteria provided by the Institute of Chartered Accountants services in 2005, relating to the statutory audit and the audit of in England and Wales.
This guidance recommends that an other regulatory and supplementary reporting 2004: 10.1 million.
independent review of the internal audit function be performed at In addition the Group engaged Ernst & Young in relation to certain least every five years.
Accordingly, the Committees 2006 review will assurance work including verication of its Corporate Social be conducted by an independent third party.
The fees for other services which included advice on accounting and regulatory matters, restatement of External auditor supplementary reporting, reporting on internal controls, and Ernst & Young LLP was appointed auditor of the Company in 2001 corporate governance matters, and due diligence work were having previously been the auditor of Norwich Union plc.
The audit 3.1 million giving a total fee to Ernst & Young LLP of 13.1 million signing partner changed as part of a rotation process in 2002.
Further details are provided in note 11 on Ernst & Young LLP audits the whole of the Group other than page 124.
Delta Lloyd the Groups subsidiary operating in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany, which is audited by During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of the  LLP PwC and part of the RAC group independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditor: which remains audited by KPMG LLP.
To full its Group reporting evaluating both the audit rm and audit teams.
The process was responsibilities Ernst & Young LLP reviews the work of PwC conducted by means of a questionnaire, completed group-wide by and KPMG LLP in accordance with standard auditing practices.
members of senior management and members of the Groups finance community.
The questionnaire sought opinions on the importance of certain criteria and the performance of the auditor against those criteria.
The questionnaires were collated by the Group Company Secretary.
Based on this review, the Committee concluded that the audit service of Ernst & Young LLP was t for purpose and provided a robust overall examination of the Groups business and the risks involved.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 1 March 2006.
D Stevens Chairman, Audit Committee Aviva plc 2005 Governance 64 Governance continued Nomination committee report This report provides details of the role of the Nomination As part of the planning process for the smooth replacement of Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
current non-executive directors, including refreshing the skill set with a view to the future, the Committee identied a number of The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by conducting potential candidates.
During the year the Board accepted the a rigorous and transparent process when making, or renewing Committees recommendations that Lord Sharman and Mary appointments of directors to the Board.
It also advises the Francis join the Board.
In respect of Lord Sharmans appointment Board on issues of directors independence.
The full terms of the Committee engaged a search agency to help it identify suitable reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys candidates and assist with the preparation of an interview list.
com and are available from the Group Francis, due to her industry prole, was known to many members Company Secretary.
of the Board and therefore a search agency was not used in The Committee currently comprises the following directors, connection with this appointment.
appointed by the Board: The appointment of five new non-executive directors over the past Lord Sharman Chairman two and a half years facilitated the retirement of George Paul and Guillermo fide la Dehesa Elizabeth Vallance at the end of 2005 and supports the Boards Richard Harvey intention that Derek Stevens and Andr Villeneuve will retire at Wim Dik the end of 2006.
Andr Villeneuve This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on Pehr Gyllenhammar was a member of the Committee and its 1 March 2006. chairman throughout the year, until his retirement on 31 December 2005.
Lord Sharman joined the Committee in January 2006.
There Lord Sharman were no other changes in the membership of the Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee during the year save that George Paul, as the senior independent director, joined and chaired the Committee for discussions relating to the succession of the Chairman.
The Committee met on three occasions in 2005 and the members attendance record is set out on page 59.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee The Committee reviews the skills, experiences and independence of the directors and, as appropriate, identies and assesses potential new directors.
It also reviews those directors retiring by rotation in accordance with the Companys articles of association with a view to making recommendations to the Board regarding their re-election.
The Committee monitors the skill requirements of the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conicts of interests, including the time committed to their duties to the Company.
The Committee also monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the Board.
The results of these reviews are important when the Board considers succession planning and the re-election of directors.
Members of the Committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 65 Directors remuneration report This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Companys Remuneration policy directors and senior executives, outlines the elements of their Executive directors remuneration and discloses the amounts paid to the directors The Companys remuneration policy seeks to provide remuneration in 2005. packages appropriate for each particular market in which the Company operates that will attract and retain high calibre The Remuneration Committee employees and encourage and reward superior performance The purpose of the Committee is to review and recommend to the consistent with the interests of shareholders.
The policy aims to Board the Companys remuneration policy and strategy and within reward senior executives fairly for their individual and collective the policy to set the individual remuneration terms and packages contributions to the Companys performance.
It is designed to for the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Committee also provide an appropriate balance between the delivery of the annual sets the remuneration structure and terms for the Companys business plan and the long-term profitable growth of the Company.
other senior executives and exercises the powers of the Board in relation to the executive incentive and all-employee share plans.
Under this broad policy, the Committee sets the content of the The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on senior executives total remuneration by reference to a variety of the Companys website www.
com and are available from factors, including market practices for companies of similar size, the Group Company Secretary.
It also considers the current prevailing operating conditions in both the Group and the financial services industry The Remuneration Committee comprises the following generally.
Additionally, it considers the skills and management independent non-executive directors appointed by the Board: capabilities that the Group must have so that it can attain its Richard Karl Goeltz chairman strategic objectives, and the level of remuneration required to Mary Francis secure individuals with those skills.
Carole Piwnica It is the Companys policy that an executive directors total potential Andr Villeneuve remuneration for a target performance would be positioned at George Paul and Elizabeth Vallance were members of the broadly median levels, compared with similar target performance Committee throughout the year until their retirement on levels of the Companys peers its comparator group, whilst also 31 December 2005.
In January 2006, acknowledging the size and complexity of the Company.
Mrs Francis and Mrs Piwnica joined the Committee and The Boards philosophy is that the senior executives own interests Mr Dik, who had been a member throughout 2005, left the should be aligned with those of the Companys shareholders.
Mr Goeltz was appointed chairman.
The Committee It therefore believes that, whilst paying a competitive basic salary, a met on eight occasions in 2005 and the members attendance substantial proportion of the targeted total remuneration package record is set out on page 59.
The Group Company Secretary acts as should be closely linked to the performance of the business and the secretary to the Committee.
delivered in the form of shares.
The Group Chief Executive is normally invited to attend the The remuneration policy is reviewed by the Committee on a meetings of the Committee, except when his own remuneration regular basis to ensure that it remains appropriate within the is being discussed, as is the Group Human Resources Director.
market and for the achievement of its objectives.
A major review Mike Pemberton, the Group Human Resources Director, provided was undertaken in 2004 which became effective in 2005.
In respect material assistance to the Committee during the year, advising on of the share schemes the review included all aspects of their market trends, practices and appropriate levels of remuneration.
operation including the discretions exercised, levels of grant, Deloitte advised the Committee on the calculation of total performance criteria and vesting schedules.
New share incentive shareholder return for the purposes of the long-term incentive plans arising from the review were put to, and approved by, plans.
Deloitte provided actuarial and accounting services shareholders at the Companys 2005 Annual General Meeting.
to the Group during the year.
In addition, the Committee has Full details of the review and the proposed changes were fully considered the views of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive described in last years Directors Remuneration Report and in assessing the performance of the executive directors.
therefore this report sets out the remuneration policy and packages which applied from the beginning of the 2005 financial year.
A major review of senior executive pension provisions was undertaken during 2005 and is described in detail below.
The Company was supported by Aon Consulting.
Lane Clark & Peacock LLP LC&P, consulting actuaries, were appointed by the Committee to provide an independent opinion on certain aspects of the recommendations arising from the review.
LC&P provided no other services to the Group during the year.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 66 Governance continued Directors remuneration report continued Chairman and non-executive directors Remuneration package It is the Companys policy to set the fees paid to its Chairman The remuneration package for the Groups senior executives and non-executive directors at the median level for international comprises the following elements: companies of similar size and complexity.
Non-executive directors A basic salary: receive a basic annual fee in respect of their Board duties.
A further fee is paid to directors other than the Chairman in respect of their An annual bonus: membership and, where appropriate, chairmanship of Board A long-term incentive plan: committees.
Fees are reviewed regularly and are set by the Board to attract individuals with the range of skills and experience A pension provision: appropriate for a major international company.
In determining the Other benets comprising a car allowance and private level of fees paid to the non-executive directors, the Board receives medical insurance.
recommendations from the executive directors who consider the non-executive directors duties and responsibilities, together with Basic salaries the time commitment required in preparing for and attending In determining the level of basic salaries, the Committee gathers meetings, and the amounts paid by competitors and similar-sized data from a number of independent sources regarding the level of companies.
Other than Pehr Gyllenhammar, who received a car salaries paid to senior executives performing comparable functions allowance, the non-executive directors receive no benets in within the 50 largest listed companies in the UK, with an additional addition to their fees nor do they participate in any incentive or focus on leading UK and European financial services companies.
addition to market data the Committee also takes into account the executives individual performance as well as the level of salaries and The Companys articles of association provide that the total salary increases for employees generally.
The Companys policy is to aggregate remuneration paid to directors will be determined set basic salaries for competent performance around the median by the Board within the limits set by shareholders.
The current level, with further progression based on performance.
Salaries are aggregate limit of 1.5 million was approved by shareholders reviewed annually.
at the Companys 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The fees paid to the non-executive directors are made under that authority.
Annual bonuses Executive directors are remunerated under their service contracts Senior executives participate in a discretionary annual bonus plan and receive no additional fee for serving as directors.
As a that provides for the payment of an annual bonus.
For executive consequence, the limit of 1.5 million relates to the fees paid to directors the bonus for Target performance is 75% of basic the Chairman and non-executive directors.
salary and for achieving Stretch performance a payment of up to 150% could be awarded.
In recognition of the growing accountabilities, time commitments and the demand for independent non-executive directors, the The balance between xed and variable elements of pay for level of fees paid in the market has increased over recent years.
the executive directors is set out below Group Chief Executive The Company last reviewed its directors fees in 2003 and to keep in brackets : the fees competitive, a review was performed during the year.
Long-term Basic Annual incentive The review considered the level of fees paid to FTSE30 companies salary bonus plan and the financial services sector and took into account international Target performance 45% 44% 34% 33% 21% 23% scope, regulatory oversight and the complexity of the business.
Stretch performance 25% 24% 37.5% 35% 37.5% 41% As a result, the following changes were made from 1 April 2005: Stretch performance is measured against those key measures The Board fee was increased from 42,000 pa to 50,000 pa: that inuence share price performance and equates to 120% of Committee membership fees of 10,000 pa were introduced Target level.
No bonus is paid if performance falls below 90% for membership of the Audit and Remuneration committees of Target.
and 5,000 for membership of the Nomination Committee: In 2005, the performance targets comprised numerous relevant The fee paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee was measures, including but not limited to: increased from 25,000 pa to 35,000 pa inclusive of the Group and business unit operating profits: 10,000 membership fee : and Return on capital employed: The fee paid to the Chairman of the Board was increased from 300,000 pa to 360,000 pa.
Combined operating ratios: and The fee paid to the Deputy Chairman including acting as the New business contributions.
chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as the senior For 2006, employee morale and customer service measures have independent director was left unchanged at 160,000 pa. been included.
From 1 January 2006, the fee paid to the Chairman increased from The actual performance against each of the measures is aggregated 360,000 to 375,000 but the car allowance of 18,000 ceased to determine the bonus levels paid.
The performance measures from that date.
vary between participants depending upon their particular responsibilities and spheres of inuence.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 67 In respect of any bonuses that are earned under the plan, one-third Performance graph is paid in cash when the bonus is awarded.
The remainder is The following graph compares the TSR performance of the converted into shares of the Company.
The shares are transferred Company over the past five years with the TSR of the FTSE100 to the executive on the third anniversary of the grant provided that Return Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised he she remains in service over that period.
equity market index, of which Aviva is a member.
The graph also includes the median TSR of the companies in the comparator group If an executive leaves service during the vesting period for reasons as this is the group against which performance is measured for the of ill-health or redundancy, the shares are released in full at the end purpose of the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The companies of the vesting period.
Upon retirement the shares are released in full which compose the comparator group for TSR purposes were at the date of retirement.
If an executive resigns prior to the end of amended when the new Long-Term Incentive Plan was introduced the year in which the shares are awarded all the shares would be in 2005 so that the group matches more closely the companies forfeited.
If resignation took place in the following year 50% of the which offer similar products in similar geographic markets to Aviva.
shares would be forfeited with 25% being lost if resignation took The TSR graph for the comparator group has therefore been effect in the third year.
All the shares would be forfeited if a director plotted using the 19 companies excluding Aviva in the comparator was dismissed for cause during the vesting period.
group pre-2005 and the 14 companies excluding Aviva in the Long-term incentives group for 2005.
The Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan is a discretionary share plan.
Aviva 5-year TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Index It is the Committees policy to make an annual award of shares and the median of the comparator group to executive directors with a value equal to 150% of basic salary 120 175% for the Group Chief Executive.
All awards are made subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
100 The awards vest after three years, but only to the extent that the 80 performance conditions are satisfied.
Awards which do not vest, lapse.
60 The first performance condition compares the Total Shareholder 20 Return TSR produced by the Company over a three-year period with the TSR of companies in a chosen comparator group.
50% of Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 the award is subject to this measure.
The achievement of median Aviva FTSE 100 Index comparator group median TSR performance in the comparator group triggers the vesting of 15% of the shares.
This rises to 50% if the Companys Dilution performance is in the top 20% of the group.
The comparator Awards granted under the Aviva Annual Bonus Plan 2005 and group for this part of the plan comprises 15 European financial the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan 2005 are met by the issue services companies including Aviva that trade similar products in of new shares at the time that the awards vest.
The Committee similar geographic markets, namely, AEGON, Allianz, AXA, Fortis, monitors the number of shares issued under its various allFriends Provident, Generali, HBOS, ING, Legal & General, Lloyds employee and discretionary share plans and their effect on dilution TSB, Prudential, Royal Bank of Scotland, Royal & Sun Alliance limits.
The relevant dilution limits established by the Association of and Zurich.
British Insurers in respect of all share plans 10% in any rolling 10 year period and executive share plans 5% in any rolling 10 The second performance condition measures the Companys Return year period were, based on the Companys issued share capital at on Capital Employed ROCE over a three-year period against a 31 December 2005, 3.2% and 1.5% respectively.
50% of the award is subject to this measure.
ROCE is measured against the context of the Companys three-year Between March 1998 and March 2003, the Company met its liability for shares awarded under the incentive plans by funding an business plan, which takes into account the trading conditions and shareholder expectations at the time each award is made.
employee trust that acquired shares in the market at the time of grant.
Details of the shares currently held in the employee trust are At threshold performance 15% of the awards vest moving to 50% at higher levels of performance.
For awards granted for the threeset out in note 29 on page 145. year performance period commencing 1 January 2005 the Major changes to accounting policies and practices in 2005, Companys ROCE over the period must exceed 33% for 15% of including adopting international financial reporting standards the shares to vest, with the full 50% vesting if the ROCE exceeds and European Embedded Value principles for supplementary 39% over the three-year period.
reporting, affected a number of the key performance indicators The Committee believes that this combination is an appropriate and performance measures used in connection with the way to incentivise executives because it takes into account both Companys long-term incentive plans.
During the transition the comparative returns to shareholders and the Companys period the Committee received reports showing the impacts of actual performance.
these changes on the performance measures and satisfied itself that the evaluation of actual performance against the The Committee decides whether, and to what extent, the performance conditions which were originally set using prior performance conditions have been met.
The rules of the plan accounting practices is appropriate having made allowance for require the Committee to request an independent consultant to the accounting changes.
determine the relevant TSR positions.
The Committee requests that the Groups external auditor expresses a formal opinion on the basis of the ROCE calculation used.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 68 Governance continued Directors remuneration report continued As a result from April 2006, executives will continue to accrue Pension arrangements and long term benets pension benets on their current basis under the Scheme up to the During 2005, the remuneration package for senior executives in the lifetime allowance, the amount of which is determined by HMRC.
United Kingdom included Company contributions into the dened From April 2006, the lifetime allowance will be 1.5 million, benefit section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme the Scheme.
equating to an annual pension of c. 75,000 pa.
The contribution Executive directors accrued pensions at a rate of one thirtieth of 5% paid by the executives will continue.
Once the value of the Richard Harvey, Philip Scott and Patrick Snowball or one forty-fifth executives pension benets reaches the lifetime allowance, further Andrew Moss of their final pensionable salary for each year of accrual in the Scheme will cease and no pension will be provided in service as a senior executive, subject to a maximum pension of excess of this.
However, the death in service benefit of four times a two-thirds of their final pensionable salary.
No pension benets members salary will continue.
were accrued on bonuses or other benets.
The Scheme provides a lump sum death-in-service benefit of four times the members basic As mentioned above it has been the practice of the Company to salary at the date of death and a spouses pension equal to twoprovide for pensions in excess of the HMRC earnings cap through thirds of a members actual or prospective pension.
Post-retirement, the provision of an UURB.
The UURB liability is unfunded and pensions are reviewed annually and increases are guaranteed at therefore once it falls into payment it is met each year from the a rate equivalent to the increase in the Retail Prices Index up to a Companys general resources and recorded as an expense.
Under the Scheme, executive directors have At 31 December 2005 30 current employees had accrued an UURB a normal retirement age of 60. benefit and the aggregate liability of these benets was estimated to be 23.5 million.
Following the changes brought about by From 1 April 2005, all members of the dened benefit section of pension simplication the Company is taking the opportunity to the Scheme were required to contribute 5% of their total gross curtail its UURB liability by funding it either through the Scheme, in basic salary to the Scheme.
cases where there is scope within the lifetime allowance, or through The benets paid from the Scheme are subject to HM Revenue the capitalisation of the UURB benefit into an investment fund, thus and Customs HMRC limits.
An Unapproved Unfunded Retirement crystallising the liability.
Fifteen executives, including Richard Harvey, benefit UURB exists in order to provide executives with the have benets which currently exceed the lifetime allowance and are benets promised to them by the Scheme, notwithstanding a limit currently considering the terms which the Company has offered relating to their level of earnings which, in some cases caps the regarding the crystallising of these benets into an investment fund.
amount of pension which can be paid from a tax approved Those executives who do not accept the offer will remain entitled to scheme.
Where this limit applies, the benets that cannot be paid an UURB.
The Company ceased offering any new UURB benets from the Scheme are provided from the UURB.
Richard Harvey and from April 2005.
Andrew Moss are both affected by this limit.
At retirement, they will All new employees in the United Kingdom including senior receive some of their pension benets from the UURB.
executives are now offered membership of the dened contribution Major changes to the legislation governing the provision of section of the Scheme.
pensions in the UK known as pension simplication will come Long-term benets into effect from April 2006.
In anticipation of the changes, and as In order to provide a long-term savings opportunity for those senior part of an holistic review of senior executive remuneration, the executives whose pensions benets from the Aviva Staff Pension Committee undertook a review of the pension provisions for Scheme are restricted by the lifetime allowance, the Company its executives and how they relate to the total remuneration will consider making discretionary contributions into a capital package.
The review was set against a number of design principles accumulation plan.
The level of any contribution will vary which included: depending upon seniority but will not exceed 50% of the The need to continue attracting and retaining top quality executives basic salary.
Executives leaving the Company, either by management: resignation or breach of contract, would forfeit any contribution for the year in which they left.
Keeping the employee retention element that is built into an occupational pension scheme: Other benets In addition to the benets described above, senior executives are Future pension arrangements for senior executives were not to entitled to the benefit of a company car allowance and private cost the Company more than its current arrangements: medical insurance.
The Company would not pay or compensate managers in The Company operates a number of HMRC approved all-employee respect of any increased tax liability arising from pensions share plans in the United Kingdom.
Senior executives are entitled simplication.
to participate in these plans on the same basis as other eligible employees.
These include the Free Share element of the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under this plan, eligible employees can receive up to a maximum of 3,000 pa in the form of shares from the profits of the Company, free of tax, subject to a retention period.
The Partnership element of the AESOP allows participants to invest up to 125 per month out of their gross salary in the Companys shares.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 69 The Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme allows eligible Directors service contracts employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a Contract Unexpired Notice date term period discount of up to 20% to their market value at the date of grant.
In order to exercise these options, participants must have saved Richard Harvey 1 June Rolling 1 year the consideration through either a three, five or seven-year 2000 1 year approved savings contract, subject to a maximum savings limit Andrew Moss 10 May Rolling 1 year of 250 per month.
2004 1 year Share ownership requirements Philip Scott 1 June Rolling 1 year The Group Chief Executive and the executive directors are required 2000 1 year to build, over a five-year period, a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 1.75 times annual salary and 1.5 times annual salary Patrick Snowball 1 June Rolling 1 year respectively.
2000 1 year Service contracts Non-executive appointments Service contracts agreed with each executive director incorporate The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have letters their terms and conditions of employment.
of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
Executive directors have rolling service contracts that can be Whilst the appointments are for a maximum of three years they terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice and can be terminated at any time by either party giving one by the director giving six months notice.
In respect of the early months written notice without the payment of compensation.
termination of a service contract by the Company, other than on The dates of the appointments reappointments for the current the grounds of dismissal for cause, the Company would, depending directors are as follows.
upon the circumstances, either seek to make a payment in respect Date of last Date appointment appointment terminates of damages, less an amount for appropriate mitigation, or would invoke a provision in the contract allowing it to be terminated Guillermo fide la Dehesa 30 May 2005 30 May 2008 by the Company making a payment of one years basic salary in Wim Dik 7 December 2005 7 December 2008 lieu of notice.
Under the Companys discretionary redundancy Mary Francis 1 October 2005 1 October 2008 arrangements, which apply to United Kingdom based employees, Richard Goeltz 3 May 2004 3 May 2007 an executive director may, depending on his length of service, Carole Piwnica 8 May 2003 8 May 2006 receive an ex-gratia payment of up to one years basic salary, Lord Sharman 14 January 2005 14 January 2008 should he leave employment on the grounds of redundancy.
Derek Stevens 31 May 2005 31 May 2006 The maximum payment receivable by an executive director on Andr Villeneuve 31 May 2005 31 May 2006 termination of his contract is therefore one years basic salary in lieu Russell Walls 3 May 2004 3 May 2007 of notice and, if made redundant, an additional payment up to a Carole Piwnica, Derek Stevens and Andr Villeneuve will stand for re-election maximum of one years salary.
No special arrangements would at the Companys 2006 Annual General Meeting.
However, it is the Boards apply should there be a change in the control of the Company.
intention that, if re-elected, Derek Stevens and Andr Villeneuve will retire on or before 31 December 2006.
Service contracts issued since November 2003 meet recommended corporate governance practice, including a specic requirement for Of the directors seeking election re-election at the Companys employees to mitigate their losses and the phasing of termination 2006 Annual General Meeting Mr Harvey, Mr Snowball and payments over the notice period.
During the current year, the Mr Scott each have a service contract with a Group company as set Company proposes to amend the service contracts for all its senior out above.
Mrs Francis, Mrs Piwnica, Mr Stevens and Mr Villeneuve executives in the UK onto the same basis.
It is the Companys do not have service contracts.
Directors service contracts and practice to notify the market of the terms offered to executive letters of appointment are available for inspection at the directors upon their appointment.
Companys registered ofce during normal hours of business.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 70 Governance continued Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration in 2005 This section of the report which has been subject to audit sets out the remuneration paid or payable to the directors in respect of the year to 31 December 2005.
The remuneration payable to directors, who held ofce for any part of the financial year, including amounts paid to them as directors of subsidiary undertakings, was as follows: 1 2 Basic salary fees Bonuses Benets Total 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Pehr Gyllenhammar 345 300 20 20 365 320 Executive directors Richard Harvey 790 752 1,028 355 104 96 1,922 1,203 Andrew Moss 470 283 589 200 20 10 1,079 493 Philip Scott 515 491 583 223 54 35 1,152 749 Patrick Snowball 503 456 693 218 104 21 1,300 695 3 Non-executive directors Guillermo fide la Dehesa 77 67 77 67 Wim Dik 59 42 59 42 Mary Francis 13 13 Richard Karl Goeltz 63 28 63 28 George Paul 160 160 4 164 160 Carole Piwnica 56 42 56 42 Lord Sharman 48 48 Derek Stevens 91 77 91 77 Elizabeth Vallance 59 42 59 42 Andr Villeneuve 59 42 59 42 Russell Walls 56 28 56 28 Total emoluments of directors 3,364 2,810 2,893 996 306 182 6,563 3,988 From date of appointment: Lord Sharman 14 January 2005 and Mary Francis 1 October 2005.
Bonuses include the value of shares granted under the free share part of the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan maximum 3,000 and the total amounts earned in respect of the 2005 performance under the Annual Bonus Plan i. e. including the amounts deferred and granted in the form of shares.
The Annual Bonus Plan which was approved by shareholders in 2005, came into effect for the 2005 financial year replacing the Deferred Bonus Plan which operated in 2004.
The disclosure of the awards made under these plans differs.
Under the Deferred Bonus Plan participants were encouraged to defer their cash bonuses 35% of salary for Target performance into shares by the Company providing matching shares on a 1 for 1 basis, thus effectively doubling the value of the bonus.
The bonus awarded was disclosed in the table showing directors remuneration and the matching shares were disclosed in the table showing the share awards.
Under the Annual Bonus Plan, a larger cash bonus is awarded 75% of salary at Target performance.
Recipients are required to defer two thirds of their bonus into shares.
However, under the Annual Bonus Plan, the deferred shares are not matched.
As explained at the time the Annual Bonus Plan was introduced, at Target performance the Annual Bonus Plan would provide a bonus broadly 5% higher than that provided by the Deferred Bonus Plan when the value of the matching shares was taken into account.
However, to encourage and incentivise outperformance the Annual Bonus Plan provides the potential to pay out signicantly higher bonuses at Stretch level of outperformance.
see page 69 regarding the operation of the Annual Bonus Plan.
When calculating the level of bonus under the Annual Bonus Plan, 70% is based on financial measures and 30% is based on personal targets.
The constitution of the financial measures varies between directors.
For example, in respect of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director the performance measures used are those relating to the Group, whereas for the other executive directors bonuses are based partly on the Groups performance and partly on the performance measures relating to the business units for which the directors have responsibility.
Performance measures are reviewed in order to determine the financial bonuses for all the executive directors.
For 2005, the performance measures for the Group included new business contribution, operating profit, combined operating ratio COR, total expenses and the return on capital employed.
Overall performance against these measures in 2005 was better than the targets set.
In addition to the Group and business unit performance measures, the directors were set individual personal targets.
All the executive directors received the benefit of private medical insurance and, along with the Chairman, a car allowance.
The above disclosure also includes, in respect of Richard Harvey, an amount relating to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the life assurance and spouses benets which, had he died during the year, could not have been paid by the pension scheme as a result of the earnings cap and which would therefore have been met by the Company.
In respect of Mr Snowball the disclosure includes an allowance of 66,000 incurred as a result of him being required to relocate from Norwich to London following a change in his responsibilities.
The disclosure also includes a benefit relating to accompanied travel Mr Harvey 10,000, Mr Snowball 22,000 and Mr Scott 32,000.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benets.
No directors received an expense allowance during the year.
The benefit disclosed for Pehr Gyllenhammar refers to a car allowance.
The fee for George Paul reects his duties as deputy chairman, chairman of the Remuneration Committee and for acting as the senior independent director.
The fee for Derek Stevens includes an additional amount for serving as the chairman of the Boards Audit Committee and of the trustee of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
The fee for Guillermo fide la Dehesa includes an amount for serving as the non-executive chairman of the Groups operations in Spain.
No non-executive director accrued retirement benets during the year.
No compensation payment for loss of ofce was made to any director, or former director, during the year.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985 the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2005 was 6.6 million.
Since his retirement as a director in 2003, Anthony Wyand has served as a consultant and as a director on the boards of some of the Groups European operations.
Under this arrangement, a fee of 126,000 was paid to him in 2005.
During the year, shares granted to certain former executive directors under the Companys incentive plans vested.
Details of these awards were fully disclosed in the year of grant.
No executive director served on the board of an external company in a personal capacity during the year for which he was remunerated.
The total compensation paid during the year to key management personnel, being those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company, including the Companys directors and non-executive directors as required to be disclosed by International Accounting Standard 24 is set out in note 53 on page 189.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 71 Pension benets During the year, each of the executive directors accumulated pension benets under the dened benets section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, the Groups pension scheme for its United Kingdom employees.
For Mr Harvey and Mr Moss, who are subject to the earnings cap, any benets that cannot be provided through the Scheme are provided via an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement benefit UURB.
Executive directors dened benefit pension arrangements Richard Andrew Philip Patrick Harvey Moss Scott Snowball 000 000 000 000 Accrued annual pension at 1 January 2005 501 6 312 191 Increase in accrued annual pension during year as a result of ination 14 8 5 Adjustment to accrued annual pension as a result of salary increase relative to ination 12 1 8 16 1 Increase in accrued annual pension as a result of additional service 101519 2 Accrued annual pension at 31 December 2005 527 17 343 231 3 Employee contributions during the year 35 24 23 22 4 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2004 6,900 53 3,715 2,702 4 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2005 7,681 166 4,357 3,465 4 Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 746 89 619 741 Age at 31 December 2005 years 55 47 51 55 Notes 1.
Mr Harvey has reached the maximum service accrual and therefore received no increase during 2005 for an additional year of service.
The accrued pension is the amount of annual pension to which the directors would have been entitled to at age 60 had they left service at 31 December 2005.
The amount of the benets to be paid out of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme in respect of Mr Harvey and Mr Moss are restricted due to the earnings cap, with the benets in excess of the cap to be paid by the Company.
As a result, 15,705 of the contributions paid by these directors was paid to the Scheme with the balance paid to the Company.
Transfer values represent the estimated liability on the Scheme to pay the stated level of benets in respect of benets in excess of the earnings cap the liability rests with the Company.
They are not sums paid, or due, to a director.
No former directors received any increase in retirement benets in excess of the amount to which they were entitled on the later of the date when the benets first became payable or 31 March 1997.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 72 Governance continued Directors remuneration report continued Incentive plans Details of the directors who held executive ofce for any part of the financial year, and hold or held options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company or hold or held awards over shares in the Company, pursuant to the Companys share-based incentive plans, are as follows: a Share options At Options Options Options At 1 January granted exercised lapsing 31 December Exercise 2005 during year during year during year 2005 price Number Number Number Number Number p Exercise period Richard Harvey Savings related options 2002 4,426 4,426 401.0 December 2009 May 2010 Andrew Moss Savings related options 2005 3,279 3,279 491.0 December 2010 May 2011 Philip Scott Savings related options 2002 4,096 4,096 401.0 December 2007 May 2008 Patrick Snowball Savings related options 2003 2,272 2,272 406.0 December 2006 May 2007 Savings related options are options granted under the HM Revenue and Customs-approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme.
Options are normally exercisable during the six month period following the end of the relevant three, five or seven year savings contract.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share in the Company on 30 December 2005 ie the last business day of the year, was 705 pence, and the mid-market prices during the year ranged from 577.5 pence to 709.5 pence.
Awards are subject to the attainment of performance conditions over a three-year performance period.
The performance condition relating to the awards granted in March 2002 fell due for testing during the year.
For any awards to vest under the TSR condition, the Companys TSR, when compared with the TSR of a comparator group of European financial services companies would need to match at least median performance when 20% of the awards become exercisable.
At upper decile performance, 70% of the awards would vest.
Between median and upper decile the number of awards vesting is determined on a straight-line basis.
For any awards to vest under the ROCE condition, the Companys ROCE would have to exceed 24% in excess of RPI over the three-year performance period when 24% of the awards would vest, rising to 30% if the ROCE exceeded 30% over the same period.
At the end of the performance period relating to the awards granted in 2002, the Company was ranked 10 out of the 20 companies in the comparator group and the ROCE was 26.2%.
Accordingly, 23% of the awards vested based on the TSR part of the Plan and 17.2% of the awards vested under the ROCE condition.
The 59.8% of the awards, which did not vest, lapsed.
Where no awards vest at the end of the three-year performance period the performance conditions can, under this particular Plan, be retested at the end of five years with the performance conditions being suitably adjusted.
This situation occurred in relation to the awards granted in 2000, which fell for retesting in March 2005.
For any awards to vest under the TSR condition, the Companys TSR, when compared with the TSR of a comparator group of European financial services companies would need to at least match median performance when 20% of the awards become exercisable.
For a top 10% performance, 70% of the awards would vest.
For any awards to vest under the ROCE condition, the Companys ROCE would have to exceed 40% in excess of RPI over the five-year performance period which would mean 24% of the awards would vest, rising to 30% if the ROCE exceeded 50% over the same period.
At the end of the performance period relating to the awards granted in 2000, the Company was ranked 8 out of the 20 companies in the comparator group and the ROCE was 42.6%.
Accordingly, 34.9% of the awards vested based on the TSR part of the Plan and 15.2% of the awards vested under the ROCE condition.
The 49.9% of the awards that did not vest, lapsed.
The Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan 2005 was approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and is described on page 67.
This 2005 Plan replaced the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan described above.
Aviva plc 2005 Governance 74 Governance continued Directors remuneration report continued The Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2001 Annual General Meeting.
The awards disclosed include those made in lieu of some or all of the cash bonus earned and deferred under the Companys Annual Bonus Plan and also the matching awards granted on a one-for-one basis.
The vesting of the awards on the third anniversary of their grant is not subject to performance conditions.
The Aviva Share Plan was established in May 2004 specically to facilitate the recruitment of Andrew Moss.
The awards made under the Plan compensate Andrew Moss for the value of long-term incentive awards granted to him by his previous employer and which lapsed when he resigned to join Aviva.
Andrew Moss is the only participant in the Plan.
On 10 May 2004, the date Andrew Moss joined the Company, 103,846 shares in the Aviva Employee Trust with a market value of 540,000 were allocated to him.
On 31 October 2004 67,307 of the shares vested, 23,077 vested on 31 December 2005 and the balance of 13,462 will vest on 31 December 2006.
The vesting of these shares is not subject to any performance conditions.
Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company is shown below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various all-employee and executive share schemes.
Details of the options and long-term incentive awards are shown on pages 72 to 73 and the Aviva Share Plan is described above.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and in respect of the executive directors include shares held in trust under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP being shares purchased by them under the partnership element and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP.
Executive directors are required to build and maintain a beneficial interest in the Companys shares equal in value to 1.5 times their annual salary 1.75 times annual salary in the case of the Group Chief Executive.
The requirement was introduced as part of the revised remuneration arrangements from 2005: the holding must be attained within five years.
Bonus Plan Awards relates to entitlements to shares arising through the current, or former, Aviva Bonus Plans.
Under these plans some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the executive leaves service before the end of the period.
Long-Term Incentive Awards are awards granted under the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plans which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the Save As You Earn share scheme.
Aviva Share Plan relates to shares held under the Plan referred to above in which only Andrew Moss participates.
The following changes to directors interests during the period 1 January 2005 to 1 March 2006 have been reported to the Company.
The changes in interests relate to shares acquired each month under the partnership element of the AESOP: Number of shares Richard Harvey 34 Philip Scott 35 Patrick Snowball 34 This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 1 March 2006.
Richard Karl Goeltz Chairman, Remuneration Committee Aviva plc 2005 Governance 75 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Aviva plc We have audited the group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report and statements the financial statements of Aviva plc for the year consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Accounting Policies, statements.
The other information comprises only the Overview, the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements, the pro the Management Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate forma reconciliation of Group Operating profit to profit Before Tax, Governance statement, the Audit Committee report, the the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Nomination Committee Report and the unaudited part of the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Recognised Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for Income and Expense, the Consolidated and Parent Company our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Statements of Change in Shareholders Equity, the Consolidated or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared Basis of audit opinion under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments companys members those matters we are required to state to them made by the directors in the preparation of the financial in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied anyone other than the company and the companys members as and adequately disclosed.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Union as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
The financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and of the groups and the parent companys profit for the year to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with then ended: and the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements and the part of the Directors We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all IAS Regulation.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs and other transactions is not disclosed.
As explained in the Accounting Policies to the group financial statements, the group in addition to complying with its legal We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects obligations to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the International Accounting Standards Board.
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the groups affairs as effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 1 March 2006 su the hea Aviva plc 2005 Financial statements Were pporting and lth well-being of people and their families across four continents Financial statements 78 Accounting policies 87 Consolidated income statement 88 Pro forma reconciliation of Group operating profit to profit before tax 90 Consolidated balance sheet 91 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 91 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders equity 92 Consolidated cash ow statement 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 190 Financial statements of the Company 199 Independent auditors report to the directors of Aviva plc on the alternative method of reporting long-term business profits 200 Alternative method of reporting long-term business 222 Aviva Group of companies 223 Shareholder services
