The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 25 Corporate Governance Introduction independent in character and judgement.
The Board subscribes The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to to the AITC Codes view that length of tenure is not in itself felt disclose how they have applied the principles and complied to be an issue, and does not diminish the directors contribution.
with the provisions of the revised Combined Code The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity on the the Code.
Board, and believes that retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the Company and the markets is of great In applying the principles of the Code, which was issued in benefit to shareholders.
Mr Moule has indicated his intention to July 2003, the directors have also taken account of the Code retire from the Board at the AGM in 2006. of Corporate Governance published by the Association of Investment Trust Companies the AITC Code, which The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that established the framework of best practice specifically for the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some appointment of new directors with the skills and experience overlap in the principles laid down by the two Codes and necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors there are some areas where the AITC Code is more flexible retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their for investment trust companies.
commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current The directors believe that during the period under review they experience of various disciplines.
have complied with all the provisions of the Code, which are relevant to the Companys business, and with the provisions of The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate the breadth the AITC Code.
of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as directors on the Board of the Company.
Application of the Codes Principles The Board attaches importance to the matters set out in both Chairman the Code and the AITC Code and observes the relevant Main The Chairman, Mr Brewster, is an independent non-executive and Supporting Principles.
It should be noted that, as an director who has no conflicting relationships.
Since all investment trust, most of the Companys day to day directors are non-executive and day to day management responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the directors responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Manager, the are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the Code Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
are directly applicable to the Company.
Senior Independent Director Board Independence and Composition Mr Sumner was appointed as Senior Independent Director The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are from the conclusion of the 2005 AGM.
Following the introduction of the Code the directors have reviewed their independence.
Mr Moule was Meetings employed by the Manager until June 2003: however, this Currently the Board meets nine times per annum and is relationship is not considered to impair his independence.
responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys The Nominations Committee considered the continued affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at appointment of Mr Brewster and Mr Morley who have served various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of the on the Board for over nine years.
They have no other links to Board may be arranged as required, as was the case this year the Manager, a wide range of other interests and are not when a separate strategy meeting was held.
The Board has a dependent in any way on the Company itself.
The Nominations formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its Committee also considered the continued appointment of decision, which are categorised under various headings Mr Sumner and concluded that Mr Brewster, Mr Morley and including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial Mr Sumner continue to make a valuable contribution to the reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share Board and, notwithstanding length of service, they remain price discount, contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment 26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued restrictions, performance, corporate governance and board the responsibilities and duties for each Committee are membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to available on the website or on request and will be available discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and for inspection at the AGM.
timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and Audit Committee considers financial analyses and other reports of an The Audit Committee comprises Mr Morley, Mr Sumner and operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Mr Thomas, all of whom are considered independent.
The Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr Morley.
The Board has allocation parameters, investment and gearing limits within satisfied itself that at least one of the Committees members which the Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee the management of the investment portfolio, which is has written terms of reference, which clearly define its contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has responsibilities and duties.
responsibility for the approval of unquoted investments and The Committee meets at least twice each year to review the all investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider and Manager.
It also has adopted a procedure for directors in the recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders and to advice at the expense of the Company.
review the accounting policies and significant financial The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews the investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the appointment and remuneration, the quality of the services of Chairman reports on them to the Board.
the service providers to the Company, and, together with the Managers, reviews the Companys compliance with financial The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees reporting and regulatory requirements.
Representatives of the held during the year and the attendance of individual Managers internal audit and compliance department attend directors are shown below.
All directors attend the Annual these meetings at the Chairmans request.
Representatives of  LLP, the Companys Board Additional Audit Nominations Management Charities auditors, attend the Committee meeting at which the draft Strategy Committee Committee Engagement Committee Meeting Committee Annual Report and financial statements are reviewed and are No of meetings91221 2 given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members 1 Mr R D Brewster91121 2 without the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
Mr R W Killingbeck 9 1 n a 2 1 n a Mr J Morley 81111 n a The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the 2 Mr M B Moule 8 1 n a n a n a n a AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
Mr F I Sumner 91221 2 Mr D G Thomas 91111 n a 3 Management Engagement Committee Mr A C Barker 4 n a 2 1 n a The Management Engagement Committees membership The membership of each committee is shown on page 19. comprises Mr Brewster, Mr Killingbeck, Mr Morley, Mr Sumner Notes: and Mr Thomas.
The Chairman of the Committee is Mr 1.
Mr Brewster was Chairman of the Audit Committee until 18 February 2005.
The Committee meets at least annually to review 2.
Mr Moule is not an independent director and is therefore not a member of the Board the investment management agreement with the Companys Committees however he is on occasion invited to attend.
Mr Barker retired on 18 February 2005.
Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager.
Board Committees Nomination Committee The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set out The Nomination Committee comprises Mr Brewster, below.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly define Mr Sumner and Mr Killingbeck.
The Chairman of the The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 27 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee is Mr Brewster.
The Committee, which The Board believes that each of the directors exercises meets at least annually, reviews the Boards size and structure independent judgement and that length of service does not and is responsible for Board succession planning.
diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a directors experience and extensive knowledge of the Company is a The Board used an external recruitment consultant when positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, long-serving directors appointing the new director.
are less likely to take a short-term view.
This view is supported by the AITC Code.
However, as three of the directors have Charities Committee served on the Board for more than nine years their The Charities Committee comprises Mr Sumner and independence is assessed according to the criteria set out in Mr Brewster who consider requests for charitable donations of the Combined Code Code provision A.
In light of Code a limited nature within a set criteria.
7.2, the directors who have served for nine years donations were made totalling 3,500 2004: 6,500. or more, will be seeking annual re-election from shareholders.
Under the Companys articles of association all directors must Directors Remuneration retire by the next annual general meeting after they attain the As the Board has no executive directors and no employees age of 70. and is comprised solely of non-executives, it does not have a Remuneration Committee.
The Company therefore is not Directors Training required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a of executive directors remuneration.
It is the responsibility of training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are the Board as a whole to determine and approve directors also provided on a regular basis with key information on the fees following proper consideration having regard to the level Companys activities including regulatory and statutory of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they Board and Committee responsibilities and the time arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant training committed to the Companys affairs.
The Chairmans remuneration is decided and approved by the Performance Evaluation Board under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
The Companys Articles of Association limit the The Board aggregate fees payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the per annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has put arrangements for the directors of the Company can be found in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
This was in the directors Remuneration Report on pages 23 and 24. implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews with the Chairman.
The Fund Manager and Company Secretary also participated in this part of the process to provide all round Tenure Policy feedback to the Board.
In respect of the Chairman, interviews No director has a contract of employment with the Company.
were held between the directors and the Senior Independant Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in Director.
The process is considered by the Board to be letters of appointment which are available for inspection at constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the the Registered Office of the Company and will be available at functioning and performance of the Board and the the AGM.
Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as well as The Articles of Association provide that one-third of the building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
directors must retire by rotation and may offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
The terms of the directors The Company appointment also provide that a director shall retire and be The performance of the Company is considered in detail at subject to re-election at the first AGM after appointment and each Board meeting.
at least every three years thereafter.
28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The effectiveness and services provided by the Manager which, through its of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance nominated representative is responsible for ensuring that the and risk department on a continuing basis and is also reviewed Board and Committee procedures are followed and that by the Company.
applicable regulations are complied with.
During the year the The Manager and custodian maintain their own systems of Company has maintained insurance cover in respect of legal internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive action against the directors: this does not cover fraud, regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are negligence or willful default.
designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at each Board meeting.
The Management Engagement Committee The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating regularly reviews the terms of the contract with the Manager.
and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with In the opinion of the directors the continued appointment of the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined the Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of the Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive which was revised by the FRC in October 2005. investment management resources and wide experience in managing and administering investment trust companies.
The Manager is responsible for the day to day investment management decisions on behalf of the Company and for The Board has delegated contractually to external third the provision of company secretarial and accounting services.
parties, including the Manager, the management of the A statement of the Managers responsibilities is shown on investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the page 21 in the Report of the Directors.
safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, company secretarial, administration and registration services.
The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an annual Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper review of the Companys system of internal control and the consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the business risks have been analysed and recorded in a risk map services offered, including the control systems in operation in which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each quarter so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
from the Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly The Board receives and considers regular reports from the the responsibility of the Manager, and which reports the details Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each the Board as required.
year from the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on Internal Controls the control policies and procedures in operation.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These The Company does not have an internal audit function: it controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are delegates to third parties its day to day operations and does not safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and employ any staff.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the the financial information used within the business and for procedures used by the Managers Internal Audit department, publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering and has concluded that they are sufficient for the Company to financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is rely on.
The Board will continue to monitor its system of embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of regular internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates as investment performance and attribution statements, financial intended and the directors review annually whether a function and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a quarterly control equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Key risks have been identified and controls have been put in place to mitigate such risks, including those risks that are The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 29 Corporate Governance continued Financial Reporting It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so Accounts is set out on page 24, the Independent Auditors as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Report on page 46 and the Statement of Going Concern on Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the page 22.
AGM are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 52.
At other times the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Voting Policy The Company has approved a corporate governance voting General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow policy which accords with current best practice whilst the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Relations with Shareholders Statement of Compliance Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board The directors consider that the Company has complied with and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company all material provisions of the Code throughout the accounting communicates with shareholders is through the Interim and period ended 31 October 2005.
The Company is compliant Annual Report and Accounts which aim to provide with the AITC Code.
shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication at the Stock Exchange of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
