Corporate governance Corporate governance report Chairmans Introduction Statement from Barclays PLC Board of Directors We made further progress during 2005 in advancing our Corporate For the year ended 31st December 2005, we have complied with the Governance agenda.
provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and applied the principles of the Code as We published our Charter of Expectations on our website at the described below.
beginning of the year, setting out the role description for each position on the Board and the behaviours and competencies required to Board Structure and Composition perform effectively in each role.
It is against this Charter that the At the date of this report, the Board comprises 16 Directors, under Board and its members are evaluated each year in the annual Board the Chairmanship of Matthew W Barrett, who has no executive Effectiveness Review.
There are ten non-executive Directors, each of whom the Board considers to be independent.
The team of five executive We also published in November, for Directors and Shareholders, a Directors is led by John Varley, Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman document entitled Corporate Governance in Barclays.
This document and Group Chief Executive roles are separate and their respective outlines all policies and practices in place at Barclays in the area of responsibilities are set out in the Charter of Expectations and in Corporate Governance.
A copy can be obtained from our website at Corporate Governance in Barclays.
Sir Nigel Rudd and Sir Richard www.
Broadbent have continued this year in the roles of Deputy Chairman This year also saw a number of new appointments to the Board, and Senior Independent Director respectively.
The names of all designed to broaden the range of skills and perspectives available to Directors are on pages 18 and 19, along with their biographical details.
the Board and its Committees.
The Board has been strengthened by the The Board has a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
addition of Directors who have extensive experience in leading large, The chart set out below reflects the current ratio of independent complex, multinational organisations and who have expert knowledge non-executive Directors to executive Directors on the Board.
of marketplaces outside the UK which are important to our strategy.
By order of the Board The Barclays Board has a good balance of independent non-executive and executive Directors Executive Independent Directors non-executive Directors 5 Matthew W Barrett 10 Chairman 9th March 2006 Chairman 1 We have made a number of new appointments during the year, driven by the annual Board Effectiveness Review.
Robert E Diamond Jr, who heads our Investment Banking, Investment Management and Wealth Management businesses, joined the Board this year in recognition of the increasing importance of these businesses to the Group as a whole: John Sunderland, Chairman of Cadbury Schweppes PLC brings a wealth of experience in global products and brands: Robert Steel brings significant US market and global investment banking experience and was Vice-Chairman of Goldman Sachs prior to retirement: Dr Danie Cronj, Chairman of Absa Group Limited, a leading South African bank, joined the Board as a non-executive Director in September 2005, following our successful acquisition of a majority stake in Absa.
Barclays PLC 24 Annual Report 2005 In terms of non-executive Directors, the Board currently comprises five The Board has reviewed carefully the commitments of the non-executive Directors who have FTSE-100 chair and or executive management Directors and is satisfied that each of them is able to devote the time experience, together with Directors who have held in their careers expected of them.
The attendance record for the year for Board and senior leadership positions in financial services, government or the Committee meetings was 97%.
public sector and business schools.
The charts below give further Executive Directors are encouraged to be open to serve on one other details of tenure on the Barclays Board and the geographical mix of the board in addition to their duties at Barclays.
A proposed appointment current non-executive Directors on the Board.
to another board position must be submitted to the Board for prior approval.
Length of tenure of non-executive Directors Appointment of Directors The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee oversees Over 9 years 2 the process for appointing new Directors to the Board.
The composition of the Board and its principal Committees is also regularly reviewed by the Committee.
Criteria for the desired experience and competencies of new non-executive Directors are recommended by the Committee and reported to the Board.
The balance and mix of appropriate skills and 0-3 years 3-6 years 6 experience of non-executive Directors is taken into account when 2 2.3 considering a new appointment, along with the Committees determination on the optimum size of the Board.
In reviewing Board composition, the Committee looks to ensure a geographical mix of Directors, together with representatives from different industry sectors.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and at least two other members of Geographical mix main experience of non-executive Directors the Committee will interview each potential new non-executive Director, who has typically been identified with the assistance of external search Other consultants, before any appointments are recommended to the Board.
International 2 Induction and Training On appointment to the Board and to Board Committees, all Directors receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their individual US UK 1 requirements, which is arranged by the Company Secretary.
On an 7 ongoing basis, the Company Secretary will arrange additional training and updates for Directors on particular issues.
During 2005, Board meetings were held at our contact centre at Gadbrook Park, near Crewe, England and, following the completion of the Absa transaction, in South Africa.
These meetings allowed We are pleased that Fulvio Conti will join the Board as a non-executive Directors the opportunity to see our frontline staff and operations first Director on 1st April 2006, bringing continental European experience hand.
We also encourage our non-executive Directors to make site to the Board.
During the year, for example, a number of nonexecutive Directors visited branches and or contact centres.
In the Role of the Board first half of 2006, we will hold the first of a number of detailed business The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and sustaining presentations for our non-executive Directors as part of a two-year shareholder value through the management of the Groups businesses.
programme, during which each of our key businesses and key It is also responsible for ensuring that management maintain a system operational areas will be covered.
These sessions are designed to give of internal control which provides assurance of effective and efficient the Board, outside of the normal cycle of Board meetings, more detail operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law and on the businesses and the competitive issues they are facing.
The Board is the decision-making body for all other matters deemed material to the Group in strategic, financial and Board Effectiveness Review reputational terms.
Following the Board Effectiveness Review undertaken at the end of 2004, the Board concluded that it was operating effectively.
The action The Board has delegated the responsibility for the day-to-day plan for 2005, which included the appointment of new Directors and management of the Group to the Group Chief Executive, who is ensuring that more time at Board meetings was devoted to discussing supported by the Group Executive Committee, which he chairs.
The Committee is comprised of the Group Finance Director, the leaders of the Groups major businesses and the Chief Operating Officer Towards the end of 2005, we again enlisted the services of the and usually meets weekly to develop strategies and policies for management consultants, Egon Zehnder International, to recommendation to the Board and to implement approved strategy.
independently facilitate the evaluation process.
The evaluation process was similar to the previous year, with a detailed questionnaire All Directors invested the time required in 2005 to discharge their sent to each Director and supplementary individual interviews, which responsibilities to the Board.
All Directors, including the Chairman, included peer evaluation of Directors.
must report any material change in their circumstances to the Board for consideration.
Significant non-Barclays commitments of Directors are reported in their biographies on pages 18 and 19.
There has been no change to the Chairmans other commitments in the year.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 25 Corporate governance Corporate governance report A report on the performance of the Board as a whole and of Board Senior Independent Directors Report Committees was presented to the Board at its meeting in December I am pleased to have the opportunity to report on my activities 2005.
The Board concluded from the results of the review that it during the year as Senior Independent Director.
The role of Senior continues to operate effectively.
Some areas for further improvement in Independent Director is a developing one and I have sought to 2006 were identified.
Feedback on individual Directors was discussed reflect this by interpreting it broadly.
I have set out to provide a with the Chairman.
The Chairman then held private meetings with point of contact, in case of need, for shareholders and, through each Director to discuss the results and agree any developmental meeting with shareholders and intermediaries, to ensure that I am areas.
Sir Richard Broadbent, the Senior Independent Director, led the aware of their views.
I have led the Chairmans performance performance review of the Chairman.
I have also met, separately, from time to time with the Group Chief Executive to ensure that I am aware of any relevant Re-election of Directors issues that the executive team wish to raise.
Dr Danie Cronj, Robert E Diamond Jr, Robert Steel and John Sunderland were each appointed to the Board during the year and will During 2005, I met with several major shareholders and shareholder be seeking re-election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting AGM.
bodies to listen to their views on the Group and to discuss any Fulvio Conti, who joins the Board on 1st April 2006, will also seek issues they may have.
I met privately with our investor relations re-election at the 2006 AGM.
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson, advisers to discuss the detailed results of their audit of shareholder Sir Richard Broadbent, Gary Hoffman and Naguib Kheraj will each be opinion.
I was also available to answer questions from shareholders retiring by rotation and seeking re-election at the AGM.
Sir Nigel Rudd, at the AGM in April 2005. having served as a Director for over nine years, retires annually in An important task for me during the year was to lead the accordance with the Code and is seeking re-election.
non-executive Directors in evaluating the Chairmans performance.
Sir David Arculus, having served on the Board for nine years, will retire This included half-year and full-year reviews of the Chairmans at the AGM and is not offering himself for re-election.
performance against the objectives we set for him at the start of the year.
Following the annual Board Effectiveness Review, which Independence of non-executive Directors took place in the last quarter of 2005, I received feedback on the The Board evaluates annually whether each of the non-executive Chairmans performance and discussed this with the other Directors is independent.
The Code sets out circumstances which non-executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
may appear relevant to the Boards determination of whether a nonexecutive Director is independent.
The Board has carefully considered There are no issues arising from these discussions that I feel it is the issue of independence and has determined that the following necessary to draw to the attention of shareholders.
behaviours, which are set out in the Boards Charter of Expectations, Sir Richard Broadbent are essential for the Board to consider a Director to be independent: Senior Independent Director Provides objective challenge to management.
9th March 2006 Is prepared to challenge others assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints as necessary for the good of the organisation.
Board Meetings Questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges rigorously The Board meets regularly, usually between eight to ten times a year, and decides dispassionately.
including a full day each year, offsite, devoted to review and approval of Is willing to stand up to defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in Group strategy.
Regular items for Board meetings include the Finance order to support the ultimate good of the organisation.
Directors Report, the Group Chief Executives Report on the key issues Has a good understanding of the organisations businesses and affecting the Group and its businesses, strategy updates from our main affairs to enable them to properly evaluate the information and businesses and reports from the Chairmen of each of the principal responses provided by management.
Having considered the matter carefully, the Board has determined that The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it, including each of the non-executive Directors is independent.
the approval of interim and final financial statements, significant changes in accounting policy and practice, the appointment or removal Sir Nigel Rudd has now served on the Board since February 1996. of Directors or the Company Secretary, changes to our capital structure The Board has therefore given particular consideration to his and major acquisitions, mergers, disposals and capital expenditure.
Having reviewed Sir Nigels performance and contribution as part of the annual Board Effectiveness Review, the The Chairman meets privately with all the non-executive Directors Board considers that Sir Nigel remains independent and makes an prior to each Board meeting to brief them on the business to be effective contribution in his role as Deputy Chairman.
Sir Nigel considered and to address any concerns they may have.
Ten such continues to meet the time commitment expected of him as meetings were held in 2005.
Open discussion and frank debate is encouraged and expected at Senior Independent Director meetings.
The findings of our Board Effectiveness Review have The Code states that the Board should appoint one of the independent confirmed that Board meetings provide a forum for challenging and non-executive Directors as Senior Independent Director.
Broadbent was appointed to that position in September 2004 and he All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and reports below on how he has fulfilled that role in 2005. his team.
Independent professional advice is also available, on request, to all Directors at the Companys expense.
Barclays PLC 26 Annual Report 2005 Board Committees Sunderland and Robert Steel.
The Committee also oversaw the search Specific responsibilities have been delegated to Board Committees, for a non-executive Director with continental European experience.
which have access to independent expert advice at the Groups That search culminated in the appointment of Fulvio Conti with effect expense.
The terms of reference for our principal Board Committees from 1st April 2006.
The Committee also recommended in 2005 the are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and are available appointments of Leigh Clifford and John Sunderland to the Board HR on our website at www.
The principal and Remuneration Committee, Robert Steel to the Board Audit Board Committees are described below.
Committee and Dr Danie Cronj to the Board Risk Committee.
In view of the increasing time commitment and responsibilities faced by Board HR and Remuneration Committee Stephen Russell in his role as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee, Chairman: Sir Nigel Rudd, Deputy Chairman the Committee also recommended that Sir Richard Broadbent should Members: Sir David Arculus, Sir Richard Broadbent, Leigh Clifford, succeed Stephen Russell as Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
John Sunderland In addition, the Committee reviewed and monitored the action plan arising from the 2004 Board Effectiveness Review.
Secretary: Jeremy Orbell, Compensation Director Board Audit Committee The Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive Chairman: Stephen Russell Directors and met four times in 2005.
The Chairman of the Board, although not a voting member, has a standing invitation to attend the Members: Professor Dame Sandra Dawson, Sir Andrew Likierman, 2.3 meeting.
Sir Nigel Rudd will continue as Chairman of the Committee Robert Steel to the end of 2006.
For 2007, a new Chair will be appointed.
Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson, Company Secretary The Committee considers matters relating to the overall reward The Committee comprises four independent non-executive Directors.
framework across the Group, including policy for executive Directors Dr Jrgen Zech left the Committee in April 2005 when he ceased to and senior executives remuneration and their individual remuneration be a Director of the Company.
Robert Steel was appointed to the awards.
The Committee approves changes to incentive and benefits Committee in September 2005.
The Board has determined that Sir plans applicable to senior executives and governs employee share Andrew Likierman is a financial expert as defined by the US Sarbanesschemes.
Details of the Committees role in governing executive Oxley Act of 2002 and has recent and relevant financial experience as Directors rewards are set out in our Report on Remuneration on pages recommended by the Code.
The Boards assessment is based on 31 to 44.
Sir Andrews accounting background and his career with HM Treasury.
The Committee also meets periodically to review strategic HR issues including, but not limited to, employee retention, motivation and Board Audit Committee Chairmans Statement commitment: equality and diversity: significant employee relations I am pleased to report to you on the Committees activities in 2005. matters: succession planning and the availability of talent for senior We met six times in 2005, including a meeting to review the 2004 roles below executive Director level.
results as restated under new International Financial Reporting Standards and a meeting dedicated to reviewing and approving the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee internal audit plans for 2006 and the external audit plan for the year Chairman: Matthew W Barrett, Chairman ended 2005.
We also met privately with the external and internal Members: Sir David Arculus, Sir Richard Broadbent, Sir Nigel Rudd, auditors after four of our meetings.
Stephen Russell Our key responsibilities as your Board Audit Committee are set out Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson, Company Secretary in the Committees terms of reference and I have reported below on how we have discharged those responsibilities this year.
The Committee includes the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Board Audit Committee, External Auditors Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and Chairman of the Board HR Our responsibilities include approving and reviewing the appointment and Remuneration Committee.
It met three times in 2005. and retirement of the external auditors and overseeing their relationship with the Group.
We annually appraise the effectiveness of The Committee is responsible for considering matters relating to the the external auditors, using an evaluation questionnaire, which is composition of the Board, including the appointment of new Directors, completed by senior members of the Finance function.
The results are making recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
It also reviews then reported to us for review.
The lead audit partner is also rotated on annually the succession plans for the Chairman and Group Chief a five-year basis and a new lead audit partner was appointed in 2005.
The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except when the Committee is considering the Chairmans succession, We have a detailed policy on the provision of non-audit services by in which case the Senior Independent Director or Deputy Chairman the external auditors.
As part of that policy, we have agreed which takes the chair.
The Group Chief Executive, although not a voting services the external auditors are allowed to carry out on behalf member, has a standing invitation to attend meetings.
of the Group and which ones they are prohibited from doing.
This policy aims to safeguard the independence of the external The Committees responsibilities also cover corporate governance auditor.
Non-audit services require the pre-approval of the issues, including consideration of our responses to important Committee or a member of the Committee before they can be developments in corporate governance, overseeing the annual undertaken.
Details of all services carried out by the external performance evaluation of the Board, its principal Committees and auditor are recorded centrally and reported to the next meeting the Chairman.
of the Committee and we spend time at each meeting considering During 2005, the Committee recommended to the Board the the independence of the external auditor based on this information.
appointments of Dr Danie Cronj, Robert E Diamond Jr, John Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 27 Corporate governance Corporate governance report During the year we approved a new policy governing the We also spent time this year reviewing the control environment at employment of former employees of the external auditor.
Under Absa Group Limited, in which Barclays has acquired a majority stake.
this policy, no former employee of the external auditor may be We considered and agreed on behalf of the Board the governance appointed to a financial oversight role and certain other arrangements for the Groups interaction with Absa and will monitor appointments are required to go through an internal review the effectiveness of this framework going forward.
Our internal audit and approval process before proceeding.
function carried out a review of Barclays readiness to complete the transaction, including governance and oversight of the acquisition, as For the year ended 31st December 2005, we have concluded that well as a review of the control environment at Absa after completion.
the external auditor remains independent and is effective.
We have In my capacity as Chairman of the Committee, I attended a meeting recommended to the Board that they propose the reappointment of of the Absa Audit and Compliance Committee in October and the the external auditors to shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
Chairman of Absas Committee will attend this Committees meeting Relationship with internal audit and monitoring control issues in April 2006.
Going forward, we will continue to receive reports on We are tasked with monitoring the effectiveness of the internal the effectiveness of the Absa control environment.
The Director of Internal Audit, who has a functional Signed on behalf of the Board Audit Committee reporting line to the Committee, provides regular reports to us and attends each Committee meeting.
The Director of Internal Audit has unrestricted access to me, as Chairman of the Committee, and I receive a monthly report from him, which includes key performance Stephen Russell indicators and a trend analysis of internal audit findings.
Chairman, Board Audit Committee At each Committee meeting, we review the progress of the internal 9th March 2006 audit plan and, each year, we consider and agree the internal audit plan for the following year.
We also regularly review the level of Board Risk Committee resources allocated to the internal audit function to ensure that the Chairman: Sir Richard Broadbent internal audit plan for the year can be delivered.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function is reviewed annually and we have Members: Dr Danie Cronj, Sir Andrew Likierman, Stephen Russell concluded that it continues to operate effectively.
Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson, Company Secretary We receive and review regular reports on control issues of Group level The Committee met five times in 2005, under the Chairmanship of significance, including details of any remediation action being taken.
Sir Richard Broadbent succeeded Stephen Russell as We also receive in-depth reports from the Groups main business Chairman of the Committee from 1st January 2006.
Dr Danie Cronj areas on their control environment.
was appointed to the Committee on 1st December 2005.
Financial Reporting The purpose of the Committee is to approve the Groups overall risk We review the Groups annual and interim financial statements, appetite, setting limits for individual types of risk, including credit, including reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure market and operational risk.
The Committee also approves material controls and procedures and systems of internal control.
changes to the overall risk appetite and monitors the Groups risk For the disclosures made in the 2005 Annual Report, we have profile, including risk trends and concentrations, loan impairment reviewed the report of the Disclosure Committee and the Turnbull experience against budget and key performance indicators for risk.
attestations made by all Business Heads, and have concluded A key role of the Committee is also to obtain assurance that the and reported to the Board for its approval that the Group has principal risks facing the Group have been properly identified and are maintained effective disclosure controls and procedures and that being appropriately managed.
The Committee also monitors the risks management has continued to operate an effective system of associated with the Groups principal pension schemes.
In order to assess the effectiveness of the Groups risk control framework, Regulatory Compliance the Committee regularly reviews the Groups risk measurement We review arrangements established by management for systems and receives reports from management confirming that they compliance with the requirements of the Groups regulators.
have reviewed the Groups risk control standards.
The Committee is We receive a semi-annual report on compliance.
also responsible for approving certain policy statements required by the Financial Services Authority.
An overview of the Groups risk Whistleblowing management and control framework can be found on page 50.
We receive reports on the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, as well as reports on specific Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings instances of whistleblowing.
All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and each meeting of Committees of which they are members, unless there Work of the Committee during 2005 are exceptional circumstances that prevent them from doing so.
In addition to the regular items discussed by the Committee, The Chairman and executive Directors attend Committee meetings which I have described above, we also received regular reports as requested or as required by each Committees terms of reference.
on the progress of two major regulatory projects, namely the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards, in The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and of Board respect of which we also received an in-depth briefing, and the Committees of which they were members during 2005 is shown on implementation of s404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. page 29.
Where a Director was appointed to the Board or to a Committee during the year, their attendance shown is only for those Barclays PLC 28 Annual Report 2005 Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings Board Board HR Corporate and Governance and Annual Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Risk General Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Matthew W Barrett 10 10 3 3 1 1 John Varley 10 10 1 1 Roger Davis 10 10 1 1 Robert E Diamond Jr 6 6 Gary Hoffman 9 10 1 1 Naguib Kheraj 10 10 1 1 David Roberts 10 10 1 1 Sir David Arculus 8 10 4 4 3 3 1 1 2.3 Sir Richard Broadbent 10 10 4 4 3 3 5 5 1 1 Leigh Clifford 8 10 2 3 0 1 Dr Danie Cronj 4 4 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 10 10 6 6 1 1 Sir Andrew Likierman 10 10 6 6 5 5 1 1 Sir Nigel Rudd 10 10 4 4 3 3 1 1 Stephen Russell 10 10 6 6 3 3 5 5 1 1 Robert Steel 6 6 2 2 John Sunderland 6 6 3 3 Dr Jrgen Zech 3 3 1 1 meetings that took place after their appointment, for example, 9 10 public companies.
Our Board annually reviews the independence of our signifies that nine meetings were attended out of a possible ten.
non-executive Directors, taking into account the guidance in the Code Dr Jrgen Zechs attendance is for meetings that took place prior to and the criteria we have established for determining independence, 28th April 2005, when he ceased to be a Director.
which are described on page 26.
For 2005, the Board determined that all the non-executive Directors are independent.
Statement on US Corporate Governance standards As a non-US company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Board Committees we are exempt from most of the NYSEs Corporate Governance rules We have a Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee the NYSE Rules, which domestic US companies must follow.
However, and a Board HR and Remuneration rather than Compensation we are subject to the NYSE rules requiring us to have a Board Audit Committee, both of which are broadly comparable in purpose and Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US constitution to those required by the NYSE Rules and whose terms of Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and we must provide an Annual reference comply with the Codes requirements.
Beyond the fact that Written Affirmation to the NYSE of our compliance with the applicable the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is NYSE Rules.
11, we are required to chaired by the Chairman of the Board, as permitted by the Code, both disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance Committees are composed solely of non-executive Directors whom practices differ from those followed by domestic US companies listed the Board has determined to be independent.
We follow the Code on the NYSE.
As our main listing is on the London Stock Exchange, we recommendation that a majority of the Nominations Committee follow the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code should be independent non-executive Directors, whereas the NYSE adopted by the Financial Reporting Council.
Key differences between Rules state that the Committee must be composed entirely of the NYSE Rules and the Code are set out below: independent Directors.
Director independence We comply with the NYSE Rules regarding the obligation to have a Under the NYSE Rules the majority of the Board should be Board Audit Committee that meets the requirements of Rule 10A-3 independent.
Under the Code, at least half of the Board excluding the of the US Securities Exchange Act, including the requirements relating Chairman is required to be independent.
The NYSE Rules contain to the independence of Committee members.
In August 2005, we detailed tests for determining Director independence, whereas the made an Annual Written Affirmation of our compliance with these Code requires the Board to determine whether each Director is requirements to the NYSE.
The Code also requires us to have a Board independent in character and judgement and sets out criteria that Audit Committee comprised solely of independent non-executive may be relevant to the Boards determination.
We follow the Codes Directors.
We follow the Code recommendations, rather than the NYSE recommendations and also developing best practices among other UK Rules, however, regarding the responsibilities of the Board Audit Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 29 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Committee, although both are broadly comparable.
We also have a held in paper form.
During 2005, over 20,000 shareholders holding Board Risk Committee, comprised solely of independent non-executive over 36 million shares chose to transfer their shares into Sharestore Directors, which considers and discusses policies with respect to risk and to have future dividends paid direct to their bank account or to assessment and risk management.
reinvest them in Barclays shares.
In addition, this year we have proactively traced and returned a further 10m to shareholders who Corporate Governance Guidelines had lost touch with the Group, reuniting these shareholders with their The NYSE Rules require domestic US companies to adopt and assets.
For the first time we offered an exclusive deal on Barclays disclose corporate governance guidelines.
There is no equivalent insurance products to our shareholders, offering special deals on recommendation in the Code.
The Board Corporate Governance general, motor and travel insurance.
Further offers are being and Nominations Committee has, however, developed corporate considered for 2006. governance guidelines, entitled Corporate Governance in Barclays, which have been approved and adopted by the Board.
The guidelines The main methods of communicating with private shareholders are the are available on our website at www.
Annual Report, the Annual Review, the dividend mailings and the AGM.
Code of Ethics Our e-view service enables shareholders to receive their documents The NYSE Rules require that domestic US companies adopt and electronically.
It also gives shareholders immediate access to disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for Directors, officers information relating to their personal shareholding and dividend and employees.
Rather than a single consolidated code as envisaged history.
Participants can also change their details and dividend in the NYSE Rules, we have a number of values based business mandates online and receive dividend tax vouchers electronically.
conduct and ethics policies, which apply to all employees.
In addition, Annual General Meeting we have adopted a Code of Ethics for the Group Chief Executive and All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and be available to senior financial officers as required by the US Securities and answer shareholders questions.
It has been our practice for a number Exchange Commission.
of years that all resolutions are voted on a poll to ensure that the Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans views of all shareholders are reflected proportionately.
Each of the The NYSE listing standards require that shareholders must be given resolutions considered at the 2005 AGM was decided on a poll and the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material a copy of the poll results is available from the Company Secretary or revisions to those plans.
We comply with UK requirements, which are on the Companys website, www.
similar to the NYSE standards.
The Board, however, does not explicitly The resolutions to be considered at our 2006 AGM will also be decided take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are on a poll and the results will be made available on our website on considered material revisions.
Corporate Responsibility Signed on behalf of the Board Our approach to managing the interests of our stakeholders is fully described in our Corporate Responsibility Report, copies of which are available from the Company Secretary or online at www.
Matthew W Barrett Relations with Shareholders Chairman We have a proactive approach to our institutional and private 9th March 2006 shareholders, totalling around 808,000.
Senior executives hold meetings with our key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities in the UK, throughout Europe and in the US.
The Chairman meets regularly with investor bodies and investors to discuss our approach to corporate governance issues.
In December 2005, the Chairman hosted a corporate governance event for key institutional investors.
The purpose of that event was to update our major shareholders on our corporate governance practices and to discuss any issues or concerns that they may have had.
In addition, investor bodies and major investors are given the opportunity to meet with new non-executive Directors on their appointment.
Sir Richard Broadbent, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet with investors if they are unable to resolve issues through the normal channels of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
We aim to provide a first-class service to private shareholders to help them in the effective and efficient management of their shareholding in our Company.
This year we have encouraged shareholders to hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore, where their shares are held electronically in a cost effective environment.
This eliminates the risk of losing shares Barclays PLC 30 Annual Report 2005
