26 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE No contributions were made for political Bradford & Bingley is committed to high decision.
The specified matters include the purposes in 2005.
We do not plan any standards of corporate governance in its business.
approval of interim and final financial payments that might be deemed to be political statements, the approval of recommendations in nature.
The Directors are pleased to report that in connection with the payment of dividends, throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 approval of corporate governance Creditor payment policy the Company complied with the provisions of arrangements, the approval of the Groups It is the policy of the Company to pay creditor the Combined Code the Code.
This strategic direction and the approval of various invoices within 30 days of the invoice date.
Corporate Governance Report, coupled with policies to be adopted by the Group.
The The Company is willing to consider requests the Directors Remuneration Report, explains mandate structure enables authorised by small suppliers for a shorter settlement how the Company has applied the governance individuals to approve levels of expenditure period.
The average number of creditor days principles set out in the Code.
and commit to contracts or other agreements in 2005 was 12 days 2004: 14 days.
in the normal course of business.
The Board The Board reviews its constitution every year Annual General Meeting During the year, the Directors satisfied the and during 2005, for the second year running, The Notice of the AGM to be held on main and supporting principles and provisions the Chairman took the lead role in the 25 April 2006 is given in the separate AGM of the Code by the following actions, evaluation of the performance of the Board, booklet.
Included in the ordinary business of procedures and policies: the principal committees and the performance the Meeting will be resolutions to seek and commitment of each Director.
The shareholder authority to renew the authority The Board met nine times during the year.
process included detailed questionnaires, onefor the Directors to issue shares, to not apply This included one meeting devoted to to-one interviews with the Chairman and a full the statutory pre-emption rights to certain strategic matters.
In addition, the Chairman discussion at a Board Meeting.
George Cox, share issues and to enable the Company to held two meetings with the Non-executive the Senior Independent Director, led the make market purchases of its own shares, up Directors without the Executive Directors Non-executive Directors in the evaluation of to a maximum of 63.4 million shares.
One meeting of the the Chairman and a separate meeting, at special business of the Meeting will seek Non-executive Directors chaired by the which the Chairman was not present, was shareholder authority for a change to the Senior Independent Director was also held held for the purpose.
As a matter of policy the roles of Chairman All Directors are subject to election by Auditor and Group Chief Executive are distinct and shareholders at the first AGM after their A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the ofces are held by different people - appointment by the Board and each Director is auditors will be put to members at the Rod Kent and Steven Crawshaw subject to re-appointment every three years in forthcoming AGM.
The role of each is recorded in accordance with the Articles of Association.
writing and has been agreed by the Board.
The Board has decided that Stephen Webster By order of the Board During the year the constitution of the and Robert Dickie will retire by rotation at Board satisfied the Code at all times.
At the the AGM in 2006 and offer themselves for Alan Shankley end of the year the Board consisted of a re-appointment by shareholders under the COMPANY SECRETARY Non-executive Chairman, five independent terms of the Articles of Association.
Chris 15 February 2006 Gillespie and Chris Willford, who were Non-executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The five independent appointed since the last AGM, are required to Non-executive Directors bring wide retire at the AGM and seek re-appointment in experience from varied backgrounds to the accordance with the Articles of Association.
workings of the Board and the Board Following the evaluation process, these considers that all independent directors re-appointments were considered by the meet the independence criteria set out in Nominations Committee which recommended the Code.
to the Board that the performance of the The recognised Senior Independent Director individuals concerned was effective and their throughout the year was George Cox.
Further information The purpose of the Board is to govern the about the recommended re-appointments is Groups strategic direction, supervise its included in the Notice of the AGM.
operational management and define and monitor acceptable risk parameters for the An appropriate training programme is Group.
The Board has adopted a structure of established for new Directors to ensure that mandates, granted to individuals and they are fully conversant with their committees throughout the Group, whilst responsibilities as a Director, with the retaining specified matters for its exclusive business of the Group and with major WWW.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 27 shareholders views about the Company.
and applicable regulations made under it.
As a Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 to During 2005, Chris Gillespie and Chris result of the 2004 evaluation of the operation 34.
The members of the Committee are George Willford followed an appropriate of the Audit Committee, administrative Cox Chairman, Ian Cheshire and Louise Patten.
familiarisation programme in respect of their improvements were made during 2005 in terms The Nominations Committee reviewed the new Executive Director roles.
A number of of the presentation of papers and the composition of the Board.
Chris Gillespie and Non-executive Directors undertook visits to attendance at the Committee.
Following the Chris Willford were recommended for operational locations and branches, to evaluation in 2005, the Committee established appointment to the Board.
In making the enhance their understanding of the Group.
that they needed to develop a better recommendation, the Committee made Throughout their period in ofce all Directors understanding of the Groups risks and that the reference to the succession plans and sought the are updated on Group business, the interaction between the Groups Risk and advice of external recruitment consultants.
The competitive and regulatory environment in Compliance functions should be reviewed to Board unanimously agreed to appoint Chris which it operates and other changes as they ensure an appropriate division of duties.
The Gillespie and Chris Willford.
In addition, the occur, via presentations at Board or Committee has agreed that there will be a Committee recommended Directors for committee meetings, as appropriate.
review of the provision of external audit re-appointment at the AGM based on the All Directors have access to the advice and services with a tender process to take place performance evaluation results.
The members of services of the Company Secretary, who is during 2006. the Committee are Rod Kent Chairman, responsible for ensuring that Board Nicholas Cosh, George Cox, Louise Patten and procedures and applicable rules and The Audit Committee also considered the Steven Crawshaw together with Ian Cheshire and regulations are observed.
The Company position of the auditors including any risk of Stephen Webster who joined the Committee Secretary also assists the Chairman in conict of interest.
The Group recognises the with effect from 29 November 2005 following facilitating the Directors training.
The Directors importance of internal and external auditor the 2005 committee evaluation process.
are able to take independent professional independence and has adopted principles to advice at the Companys expense.
safeguard this, as follows: Shareholder relations The Company is committed to ongoing, Principal Board committees the Group will continue to use the transparent communication across the The Board has established a number of external auditors for non-audit work, shareholder base, whether to institutional committees, each of which has detailed terms where appropriate: investors, private or employee shareholders.
The three principal committees the Group recognises the need for Summary Financial Statement, which details key are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations transparency around the services being facts about the Groups performance, is Committees.
The Audit and the Remuneration provided and for a central independent distributed to those private shareholders who Committees comprise only independent overview.
This is provided by the Audit have requested it.
All Annual Report & Accounts Non-executive Directors.
The terms of reference Committee which monitors audit and and AGM documents, announcements, of all these committees are available on request non-audit fees paid: and presentations and press releases are available on to the Registered Ofce and by visiting the there is an appropriate approval process for our www.
The Company Corporate Governance section within the Our non-audit work to ensure the auditors engages in two-way communication with Business part of the www.
institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to discuss publicly available information The members of the Committee are Stephen on its strategy, performance and policies.
The During the year, the Audit Committee monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk Webster Chairman, Ian Cheshire and Board receives feedback on these management process and its financial and other Nicholas Cosh.
The Board is satisfied that communications from the Directors attending internal control systems, including effective Mr Webster fulls the Code requirement that the meeting, and is also regularly apprised of internal audit, risk management and compliance at least one member of the Committee has comments from institutional shareholders and functions.
The Committee also reviewed the recent and relevant financial experience.
analysts so that all Directors can develop a Groups accounting policies, financial statements balanced understanding of the issues and and external reporting responsibilities with The Remuneration Committee, during the year, concerns of shareholders.
The Chairman and particular regard to International Financial reviewed the remuneration policy for the Group Senior Independent Director are available to Reporting Standards.
It met with the external overall, and the salary, bonus and benets meet shareholders on request and will ensure auditors and received all reports by them arrangements for the Executive Directors and that the Board is aware of any shareholder addressed to the Group.
The Committee other members of the senior management team.
concerns not resolved through the usual investor reviewed the arrangements for staff to raise The Committee also reviewed the grants and communications routes.
At each AGM there is a concerns about possible improprieties in the awards of schemes established by the Company review of the Groups performance and the area of financial reporting or other issues.
The and addressed the implications of the tax Board welcomes the opportunity to gather views Committee also undertook corporate simplication changes that come into effect in and take questions from shareholders.
governance and other duties as required under April 2006 on the Companys pension the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 arrangements.
Further detail is provided in the 28 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In connection with the AGM, the Company providing independent assurance on the and material control weaknesses, together with discloses the level of proxy voting including effectiveness of the Groups internal control actions taken to address them.
The Chairman for, against and votes withheld, proposes systems.
The Group Risk Committee oversees of the Audit Committee reports on the separate resolutions and has a policy that the the risk management process, considers the outcome of each meeting to the Board, where committee chairmen should attend the Group-wide risk prole regularly and receives appropriate, and the Board also receives Meeting.
In addition, the Notice of the AGM monitoring reports to update it on progress.
minutes of these committee meetings.
and any related papers are sent out to arrive Further information on risk management and at least 20 business days before the Meeting to control is set out on pages 16 to 17.
Going concern ensure that shareholders have sufficient time in The Directors confirm that they are satisfied which to consider the items of business.
The Group is committed to developing and that the Company has sufficient resources maintaining an appropriate risk management to continue in operation for the foreseeable Internal control framework and culture with the aim of future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt The Board is responsible for the Groups system continuing to ensure that the management the going concern basis in preparing the of internal control.
It seeks regular assurance to understand the key risks that the businesses face.
satisfy itself that the system is functioning This is achieved through an organisational effectively in managing risks in the manner structure with clear reporting lines and governed which it has approved.
Such a system can only by appropriate business monitoring mechanisms, provide reasonable and not absolute assurance codes of conduct and policy statements.
against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the The system of internal control has been in place risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
throughout 2005 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
It accords Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, with the guidance from the Turnbull Committee.
the Group has operated a system of internal control, which includes an ongoing risk In reviewing the effectiveness of this system, management process for identifying, evaluating the Board takes into account the work of the and managing the significant risks faced by the Audit Committee, which receives reports from Group.
During the year, the Board has continued the Group Risk Committee on the Groups to review the effectiveness of the Groups system significant risks and how these are being of financial and non-financial controls, including managed.
The Board also considers reports operational and compliance controls, risk from internal audit, external audit, compliance management and the Groups highest level and management on the system of internal internal control arrangements.
In addition, as part control, adherence to regulatory requirements of the process of preparing this statement, the Board has also performed its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls.
Changes in financial regulation continue within Board Meeting and committee attendance 2005 the industry, and the Groups risk management The table below shows the attendance by Directors at the Board Meetings and at the principal processes are kept under regular review to committees of which they were members during the year.
Director absences were the result of ensure that the Group responds appropriately unavoidable diary clashes and, in all cases, were agreed with the Chairman in advance.
both to actual and proposed regulatory changes.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee The Groups management operate a risk Rod Kent 9 9 - - 2 2 management process, producing a GroupSteven Crawshaw 9 9 - - 2 2 wide risk prole that identies the Groups Ian Cheshire 8 9 4 5 2 4 - significant risks, the probability of those risks Nicholas Cosh 8 9 5 5 - 2 2 occurring and their impact should they occur, George Cox 7 9 - 4 4 2 2 and has the prime responsibility for the design Robert Dickie 9 9 - - - and operation of suitable controls and Chris Gillespie 3 3 - - - mitigating actions.
The risk management Louise Patten 8 9 - 4 4 2 2 process is complemented by a formalised Rosemary Thorne 7 8 - - - reporting and escalation process for control Stephen Webster 8 9 5 5 - - issues.
Internal audit has a key role in Chris Willford 2 2 - - - maintaining the control environment by
