Caledonia Investments plc 40 Annual report 2005 Corporate governance report The board recognises the importance of good corporate Board composition governance and this report describes how the company has The directors who served during the year and subsequent applied the principles of good corporate governance as set changes to the board are described in the directors report out in section one of the Combined Code issued in July 2003 on page 31. the Combined Code.
The board currently comprises 12 directors.
Excluding the Statement of compliance chairman, six of the directors are executive and five non-executive.
The directors consider that the company has complied The non-executive directors considered to be independent are throughout the year with the provisions set out in section one Messrs C M Allen-Jones, M E T Davies, R Goblet dAlviella and of the Combined Code, other than as follows.
Mr Goblet dAlviella is chief executive officer of Sona sa, which has a 4.7% shareholding in Caledonia, however The composition of the board did not comply throughout the year the board does not consider this level of shareholding to be with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, which requires that, significant in judging his independence.
Collectively, the directors except for smaller companies, at least half the board, excluding the throughout the year brought a wide range of experience, skills chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined and expertise to the stewardship of the company.
The individual by the board to be independent.
The Remuneration and Audit biographies of the current directors appear on pages 28 and 29.
Committees did not comply with provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 respectively throughout the year, which require that all members The board is led by the chairman, Mr P N Buckley, whose of such committees should be independent non-executive directors.
responsibilities have been agreed and set out in writing in the The company also did not comply throughout the year with Schedule of Authorities adopted by the board.
The chairmans provision C. 3.4 of the Combined Code, which requires audit primary role is to ensure that the board and individual directors committees to review arrangements by which staff of a company are able to operate efficiently by setting the agenda, style and may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties tone of board discussions to promote constructive debate and in matters of financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing effective decision making.
He has overall responsibility for arrangements and to ensure that appropriate follow up monitoring the development needs of the board as a whole and procedures are in place, as such whistleblowing arrangements of individual directors and for ensuring that the performance of were only formally approved by the Audit Committee on the board, its committees and individual directors are evaluated 24 March 2005.
The reasons for the companys non-compliance at least once a year.
In conjunction with the chief executive, the with these provisions are explained below.
chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that all board members develop an The board understanding of the views of investors.
This is primarily Overall responsibility and operation achieved by board briengs following meetings with significant The board as a whole is responsible for the groups objectives shareholders and private client stockbrokers, some of which are and policies and the management of its resources.
It has eleven also attended by the senior independent non-executive director.
scheduled meetings a year, but also convenes at additional times when required.
The board has adopted a Schedule of Authorities The chief executive, Mr T C W Ingram, heads the executive which sets out matters specically reserved to it for decision.
management team and is primarily responsible for the Such matters include the approval of strategy, the annual budget, implementation of the boards policies and strategies and for material capital and revenue transactions and changes in business managing the activities of the company other than in relation to activities, treasury policies, risk management and internal policy those matters specically reserved to the board or delegated to limits relating to the companys investment activities.
His responsibilities have also been agreed and of Authorities also sets out the authorities that are delegated to set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted by the board committees and to executive management.
Except where the board gives specic direction otherwise, the chief executive may delegate any of those matters to other All directors receive appropriate and timely information to ensure members of the executive management team or to executive that they are properly briefed in advance of boards meetings and committees, but ultimately he is accountable to the board for the have unlimited access to the advice and services of the company overall performance of the company.
secretary and other senior management should further information be required.
Non-executive directors have access to independent A strong independent non-executive representation on the professional advice at the companys expense where they judge board is headed by the senior independent non-executive it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
The role of the non-executive directors, as set out in their letters of appointment, is to challenge Appointment, induction and training constructively, and contribute to, the development of strategy: All new directors appointed by the board are required to seek to scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed election by shareholders at the next general meeting of the goals and objectives and monitor their performance: to satisfy company following their appointment and subsequently all themselves that financial information is accurate and that directors are required to retire by rotation at least every three financial controls and systems of risk management are robust years.
Any non-executive director who has served on the board and defensible: to determine appropriate levels of remuneration for over nine years is subject to annual re-election.
On appointment, for executive directors: and to have a prime role in senior new directors are offered induction and training considered management appointments and succession planning.
appropriate by the board and subsequently as necessary.
The company secretary provides details of, and where requested The composition of the board is such that, throughout the arranges attendance at, external courses to assist in directors year, the company did not comply with provision A.
The board however believes that the main objectives of board balance and independence set out in the Combined Code that the board should include a balance of executive and non-executive directors, and in particular independent non-executive directors, such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking are met.
Caledonia Investments plc 41 Annual report 2005 The board is currently broadly comprised of three categories The Nomination Committee met three times during the year in of directors the four independent non-executive directors: order to undertake a formal review of the size and composition four directors the chairman and three executive directors, of the board following the annual board performance evaluation Messrs C W Cayzer, J M B Cayzer-Colvin and W P Wyatt who and to make recommendations for the appointments of Messrs are involved in the affairs of The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd R Goblet dAlviella, J M B Cayzer-Colvin and W P Wyatt to the Cayzer Trust, Caledonias largest shareholder: and three board.
The Committee did not use an external search consultant other executive directors Messrs T C W Ingram, J H Cartwright or open advertising in the appointment of Mr Goblet dAlviella as and J M May.
Mr J R H Loudon does not fall into any of these a non-executive director, as he became known to the board as a categories as his ten year tenure as a non-executive director consequence of Sonas acquisition of a 4.7% shareholding in prevents his meeting the Combined Code criteria for independence the company.
The Nomination Committee was therefore able although his length of experience with the company, as well as to identify at first hand that his considerable knowledge and his business career, are both considered significant assets by the experience in corporate finance and investment management, board and, although a member of the wider Cayzer family, he is particularly in Continental Europe, would provide a valuable not involved in the affairs of Cayzer Trust.
additional resource to the board.
In addition to the balance on the board brought by these The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr M E T Davies, categories, the Governance Committee, comprising solely is responsible for the review of executive remuneration policy.
independent non-executive directors, was established in 2003 to Within that policy, the Remuneration Committee determines the keep under review corporate governance and conict of interest remuneration packages of executive directors and reviews those issues relating to the company and the board and has authority of other senior executive management.
It is also responsible to recommend that any director abstains from participating in any for the design and grant of awards under the companys share decision of the board, or any board committee, where it believes incentive schemes and for the determination of the policy for that a conict of interest could, or could be perceived to, arise.
and scope of pension arrangements, service agreements, The board believes that this structure ensures the necessary termination payments and compensation commitments for level of board balance demanded by the Combined Code and executive directors and, if requested by the board, for other safeguards against any individual or small group of individuals senior executives.
being able to dominate the boards decision taking.
Whilst not in strict compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, the The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year and board believes this structure is appropriate in the context of a undertook a thorough review of senior executive remuneration, company with a large controlling shareholder whose stability and advised by external consultants appointed by the Remuneration support is fundamental to Caledonias business model as a long Committee, Towers Perrin, to ensure that the companys term, supportive investor, and is therefore in the best interests of remuneration policies remain sufficient to enable it to recruit and all shareholders.
retain able executives and that its performance related rewards continue to be competitive.
Further details of the conclusions As stated previously, the Combined Code requires that the of this review and a description of the work of the Remuneration members of the Remuneration and Audit Committees should all Committee are included in the directors remuneration report be independent non-executive directors.
However, Mr Loudons set out on pages 33 to 39. membership of these Committees, given that he is not considered independent by virtue of his length of service as The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, is a non-executive director, means that provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 responsible for the monitoring of the integrity of the financial of the Combined Code are not met.
However, because of his statements of the company and any announcements relating attributes described above, the board considers his membership to the companys financial performance and for reviewing any of these Committees to be in the best interests of the company.
significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal financial Board committees control and considers annually whether an internal audit function The board has delegated certain specic areas of responsibility is required.
The Audit Committee believes that, in the context to the following standing committees, the terms of reference of of the companys business as an investment trust, the key issues which are published on the companys website and are available on which it has to satisfy itself are the integrity of the application from the company secretary on written request.
The current of the companys policy for the valuation of its investments, membership of these committees is noted on page 73. particularly those which are unquoted, and the robustness of the groups internal financial controls.
The valuations of the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr P N Buckley, is companys unquoted investments are subject to formal six responsible for the regular review of the structure, size and monthly reviews by an internal challenge committee, independent composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the investment executives and observed by the external of the board and for giving consideration to succession planning auditors, and a formal report on the effectiveness of the groups for executive directors and, if requested by the board, for other internal financial control is prepared annually for the board by the senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external group financial controller.
It is the Audit Committees current search consultants where necessary, candidates to ll board opinion that, in view of these control processes, the size of the vacancies as and when they arise and for making recommendations entities controlled by Caledonia and the relatively straightforward to the board in relation thereto and for keeping under review control considerations in relation to other investments, a separate the leadership needs of the company, both executive and internal audit function is not necessary.
It reviews annually the time required of non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside board meetings.
Caledonia Investments plc 42 Annual report 2005 Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee is also responsible for overseeing the The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, establishment of appropriate whistleblowing arrangements keeps under review corporate governance issues relating to the and for ensuring that any concerns raised by staff are properly company and is responsible for the monitoring and review of the investigated and appropriate action taken.
Formal whistleblowing ability of each director to act in the interests of shareholders as arrangements were approved by the Audit Committee on a whole and to exercise independence of judgement free from 24 March 2005 and therefore, given that such arrangements relationships or circumstances which are likely to, or could were not in place throughout the year, the company has only appear to, affect his judgement.
Where it concludes that such fully complied with provision C. 3.4 of the Combined Code from criteria are not satisfied with regard to any director, it may make that date.
such recommendations to the board as it may think t, including that the director abstains from participating in any decision of the It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
The monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditors Governance Committee met twice during the year.
and the effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to Attendance at meetings supply non-audit services.
In this regard, the Audit Committee The following table identies the number of board and committee has approved a schedule of specic non-audit activities which meetings held in the year to 31 March 2005 and the attendance may not be undertaken by the external auditors, within the broad record of individual directors.
principles that the external auditors should not audit their own work, should not make management decisions on behalf of the Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance company, should not be put into the role of advocate for the Board Committee Committee Committee Committee company and that no mutuality of interest should be created Number of meetings between the company and the external auditors.
The Audit 1 in the year 11 34 4 2 Committee believes that, by applying these principles, the Attendances by objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained, notwithstanding that non-audit work may be undertaken.
P N Buckley 11 3 On an annual basis, the Audit Committee considers and J R H Loudon 11 3 4 4 makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, T C W Ingram 10 re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
J H Cartwright 11 The Combined Code recommends that at least one member The Hon C W Cayzer 10 of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial J M May 11 experience.
The Audit Committee considers that Mr J R H Loudon, C M Allen-Jones 11 3 4 4 2 who was formerly group finance director of Blue Circle Industries, has such financial experience.
The chairman of the Audit M E T Davies 10 2 4 2 Committee, Mr C M Allen-Jones, is also a member of the Financial 2 R Goblet dAlviella 2 Reporting Council.
3 Sir David Kinloch 3 The Audit Committee met four times during the year, twice D G F Thompson 11 3 4 2 without any of the executive directors present.
During the M G Wyatt 9 year, the business considered by the Audit Committee included: 1.
Appointed on 19 January 2005 and therefore could have attended a maximum The scope of the annual audit and agreement with the external of three scheduled board meetings.
Retired on 14 July 2004 and therefore could have attended a maximum of three auditors of the key areas of focus.
The reports from the external auditors concerning their audit Board evaluation of the annual financial statements of the company and their Since the year end, a formal evaluation of the effectiveness review of the interim report.
of the board and its committees and of the performance of individual directors in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 The financial disclosures contained in the annual and interim has been undertaken.
The evaluation of the board as a whole reports to shareholders.
and of its committees was led by the chairman and was conducted by inviting individual board members to complete Reports from management on the effectiveness of the a questionnaire regarding the operation and effectiveness of the companys system of internal financial control.
board as a whole and of its committees, the responses to which were collated by the company secretary and discussed.
The The need or otherwise for an internal audit function.
evaluation of the performance of the chairman was led by the senior independent non-executive director and involved private The independence and objectivity of the external auditors, discussion with other members of the board of their views on his including their system of quality controls and the level and performance, the results of which were then considered at a nature of non-audit services provided by them.
meeting of the non-executive directors without the chairman present.
The evaluation of the performance of the chief executive The performance of the external auditors and of the Audit was undertaken by the chairman and the non-executive directors.
The performance of the non-executive directors was reviewed the chairman, the chief executive and the senior independent The companys preparation for the implementation of non-executive director, with the senior independent non-executive International Financial Reporting Standards.
director absent in respect of his own performance appraisal, and included the completion of self-assessment questionnaires The companys compliance with the requirements for Inland by the non-executive directors.
The performance of the executive Revenue approval of its investment trust status.
directors, other than the chief executive, was undertaken by the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual salary The development and implementation of formal review process.
Caledonia Investments plc 43 Annual report 2005 The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing committees for the year ended 31 March 2005 were presented total shareholder returns and net asset value movements against in a report to the board.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the FTSE All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported the size, structure and composition of the board in the light of monthly to the board.
Income and expenses are monitored by the this report.
board against an approved annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
Valuations of unquoted investments are subject to a Internal control rigorous six monthly review process undertaken by a challenge The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of committee independent of the investment executives and internal control, although the review of internal financial controls observed by the external auditors.
is delegated to the Audit Committee.
The groups system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Since the year end, the directors have conducted their annual risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It is recognised that review of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system such a system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, of internal control.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board confirms that the system of internal control operated by the Going concern group accords with the guidance issued in September 1999 by The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the group has the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales the adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable Turnbull Committee guidelines and has been in place throughout future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern the year and up to the date of approval of these accounts.
basis in preparing the accounts.
Major business risks facing group companies, including social, Relations with shareholders ethical and environmental issues, are identied in conjunction The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders with operating management and procedures agreed to control in order to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
Risks facing the groups material chief executive and the finance director seek meetings with investments are identied and evaluated through board larger institutional shareholders and private client stockbrokers representation or regular contact.
after the announcement of year end and interim results.
The chairman and senior independent non-executive director also Key risks identied are regularly monitored at group level by attend some of these meetings.
The annual general meeting members of the executive management committee, who have also provides a forum for investors to meet the directors, both clear mandates to assess and report on risk in their particular formally and informally.
From these assessments, an ongoing risk prole of the groups activities is updated half-yearly and The chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to reviewed by the board.
The board is also provided quarterly with answer questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
a list of the key risk issues identied by executive management at that particular time.
All of the companys larger investments are reviewed at least annually by the board and the smaller portfolio holdings reviewed at least annually by the executive investment committee.
Specic control procedures are in place to ensure that the company continually monitors and complies with the requirements for investment trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance reports evidencing that the company is meeting the various tests for investment trust status and also conrming that the investment activities undertaken by executive management are within the overall policy limits set by the board.
A compliance committee, comprising the company secretary chairman, the finance director and three associate directors has been established, which meets weekly to review the companys ongoing compliance with its investment trust status and to monitor and approve all investment activity from an investment trust compliance perspective.
The group financial controller also attends such meetings.
