Corporate governance The following statement sets out the Companys application in the The audit committee carries out a number of duties, including year to 31st December, 2005 of the Revised Combined Code issued review of the interim and annual accounts, and seeks to ensure that in July, 2003.
In the opinion of the board, the Company has complied appropriate accounting and financial policies and procedures are with the principles of that Code in all respects throughout the year implemented, that systems of internal control and external audit are except where stated otherwise.
in place, and that the auditors recommendations are considered and appropriate actions are taken.
Meetings of the audit committee are The board held at least three times a year, and are attended by the external Corporate governance of Candover is achieved through the board auditor.
During 2005, three audit committee meetings were held which, at the end of the year, comprised eight directors, of whom two and these were fully attended.
were executive and six were non-executive.
Mr R A Stone, a former Deputy Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand and member of the global Among the issues considered by the audit committee during 2005 were audit strategy, and the introduction of International Financial board of , and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, was appointed a Reporting Standards.
Brief biographical details of the directors The remuneration committee appear on pages 20 and 21 and the interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in note 16 on page 54.
The remuneration committee, chaired by Mr Grimstone, comprises six non-executive directors, the members of which are shown on The board meets five times a year and there is a formal schedule pages 20 and 21.
This committee supports the board in determining of matters reserved for decision by the board.
Matters reserved for the level of the remuneration of the Chairman and the other executive decision by the board include, inter alia, corporate strategy, approval director and the senior management and other related matters.
The of the annual budget, approval of the report and accounts and the full report of the committee is set out in the directors remuneration valuation of the Companys investments.
All meetings during 2005 report on pages 29 to 33. were attended by all directors, with the exception of the July meeting which Mr Stone was unable to attend, and the December meeting, The remuneration committee met twice during 2005, and these which Mr Fairservice was unable to attend.
In line with the requirements of the Revised Combined Code, the The nominations committee board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance In considering non-executive board appointments, the board is and that of its committees and individual directors.
A review was supported by a nominations committee whose remit is to review undertaken in December 2005 and the board concluded that its the structure, size and composition of the board, to satisfy itself that performance, and that of its committees and its directors, was plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the satisfactory.
In December 2005, appraisals of the individual nonboard and to identify appropriate candidates.
A job specification executive directors were undertaken by the Chairman, and an for the non-executive director role has been approved by the appraisal of the Chairman was undertaken by the Senior Independent nominations committee.
The nominations committee will generally Director on the basis of feedback received from other directors.
use an appropriate external search consultancy to identify suitable The results of these appraisals were also satisfactory.
All such appointments, together with the appointment of any executive directors, are subject to final approval of the full board Chairman before ratification at a general meeting of shareholders.
The executive responsibilities of the Chairman, Mr Curran, who is responsible for the strategic direction of the Group, are separated The nominations committee, which is chaired by Mr Hichens, from those of Messrs Buffin, Gumienny and Chevrillon, the Senior comprises three directors, the majority of whom are non-executive, Managing Directors, who are responsible for the day-to-day and the present members of the committee are shown on pages 20 operational management of the Company.
During the year, the committee approved the appointment of Mr Stone.
The appointment of Mr Stone brought to the board A job specification for the role of Chairman has been approved by considerable experience gained in the financial services sector, the nominations committee.
including private equity, and was part of the process of succession planning at board level.
The committee also met to consider the Board committees appointment of Mr Grimstone in succession to Mr Curran as Chairman, and Mr Wests appointment as Senior Independent The board is supported in its decisions by the following committees: Director.
Both appointments will take effect on 8th May, 2006.
The audit committee The nominations committee met twice during 2005 and both The audit committee comprises six non-executive directors and the members of this committee are shown on pages 20 and 21. meetings were attended by all members.
The board is satisfied that the chairman of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Russell became chairman of the audit committee on 10th May, 2005 following the retirement of Mr Wilson.
25 Candover Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued Board balance Relations with shareholders The board maintained a balance of six non-executive and two Dialogue with institutional shareholders The board is willing to enter into a dialogue with institutional executive directors which it considered appropriate to the Companys status as an investment trust.
In the view of the board, no nonshareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, bearing executive director has any relationships that could materially interfere in mind the duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders and the dissemination of inside information.
Brokers reports on the Company with their independent judgement.
The non-executive directors are furthermore considered to be of sufficient calibre and experience are circulated to non-executive directors.
to bring significant influence to bear on the decision-making The Senior Independent Director is available to be contacted by process.
It is therefore the boards view that all non-executives are independent, although two Messrs West and Hichens have shareholders in situations where contact through the Chairman is felt exceeded the nine year period of service envisaged by the Revised to be inappropriate.
Combined Code as being relevant to the determination of a nonConstructive use of the Annual General Meeting executive directors independence.
In this regard, the board acknowledges the Association of Investment Trust Companies The board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and encourages their participation by ensuring that guidelines on corporate governance, which do not recommend that long-serving directors be prevented from forming part of an senior board members attend, including the chairmen of the audit, independent majority.
remuneration and nominations committees Messrs Russell, Grimstone and Hichens respectively, to answer shareholders During the year, a new non-executive director, Mr Stone, questions, and adequate notice is given of the meeting.
Voting policy Mr Grimstone was the Senior Independent Director on the board As Candovers investee companies are principally unlisted companies during the year.
Following Mr Grimstones appointment as Chairman, in which Candover, together with the third party funds managed by which will take effect from 8th May 2006, Mr West will become Candover, is a significant shareholder, Candover would usually be a Senior Independent Director.
party to all issues requiring shareholder approval and would always vote on such issues.
Supply of information The Chairman ensures that all directors are properly briefed on It is the Companys policy with regard to all its investments either issues arising at board meetings.
The Candover management made by the Company alone or alongside third party funds to vote in provides the board with appropriate and timely information in order a prudent and diligent manner after careful review of each investee that the board may reach proper decisions.
They can, if necessary, companys proxy statement on an individual basis.
Candovers voting obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
decision is based on its reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of the Companys shareholders and third party Directors training investors and Candover will not subordinate the economic interests During the year, the board reviewed the requirement of the Revised of its shareholders and third party investors to any other entity or interested party in determining such a vote.
Combined Code to provide suitable training on the appointment of new directors, and has provided such training during the year.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting In line with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code, a formal The directors are required to explain their responsibility for the training process for new non-executive directors now exists.
financial statements and this statement is given on page 28.
The Re-election of directors auditors review the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code and compliance with the rules of the The principle set out in the Revised Combined Code is that all directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election at Financial Services Authority FSA, the regulatory authority that regulates Candover Partners Limited, and are also required to regular intervals and at least every three years, and in any case as report on their audit of the financial statements and this report is soon as practicable after their initial appointment to the board.
The Revised Combined Code further requires that the non-executive shown on page 34. directors are appointed for specific terms.
At Candover, both The board seeks to give a balanced and clear assessment of the executive and non-executive directors are re-elected, subject to retirement by rotation, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Groups position and prospects.
Further information is given in the Chairmans statement and the operational review.
Association, with all directors being required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The details of directors contracts including non-executive directors letters of appointment are set out in the directors remuneration report on page 33.
26 Candover Report and Accounts 2005 The responsibility for identification of other business risks is delegated Going concern to the executive directors and the senior management, who would Under the Revised Combined Code the directors are required to always advise the full board of any material risks.
satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to presume that the Company is a going concern.
Control procedures The main areas of control relate to the investments that Candover makes and the financial controls that After making enquiries, and on the basis of the strength of its balance enable the board to meet its responsibilities for the integrity and sheet, the directors are of the opinion that the Company has accuracy of the Groups accounting records.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The board is therefore of the opinion that the The board delegates responsibility for the effectiveness of such going concern basis should continue to be adopted in the preparation controls to the executive directors and senior management, who in of the financial statements.
turn ensure the completion of the required procedures.
These key procedures involve: Internal control Under the terms of the Revised Combined Code the board is required analysis of potential investments leading, where appropriate, to the to review the effectiveness of Candovers internal controls including its preparation of a full investment report: financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The board continues to apply the procedures necessary to comply regular monitoring of completed investments by executives, who with the requirements of the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal make progress reports to the appropriate board: Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the board Candovers system of internal control includes, inter alia, the overall five, and if appropriate more, times per year giving actual results control environment, the procedures for identification and evaluation compared to budget.
Towards the end of each financial year of business risk, the control procedures themselves and the review of detailed budgets for the following year are prepared and are these internal controls by the audit committee on behalf of the board.
reviewed by the board: and Each of these elements that make up the Companys system of internal control is explained in further detail below: a review of these financial controls is carried out by the audit committee twice a year and by Candovers external auditors to the Control environment Candover is dependent upon the quality extent necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
and integrity of the Companys management and staff and highly qualified and able staff have been selected at all levels.
The long Although no system of internal control can provide absolute service record of most Candover executives helps to ensure that assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Companys knowledge and experience is retained within the Company and system is designed to assist the directors in obtaining reasonable passed on to new employees, thereby providing continuity and assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt renewal.
New executives are recruited when appropriate in order to with appropriately.
aid the Companys development and growth within the UK and in continental Europe.
Audit committee and auditors The board has delegated authority for reviewing the effectiveness Appropriate members of staff are aware of the internal controls of the Groups internal controls to its audit committee.
The audit and are also accountable for collectively operating the system of committee receives monitoring reports on a six monthly basis from internal controls.
the Company Secretariat with regard to the operational aspects of internal controls over the areas of key risk identified, which include The management are supported by the board with more than one FSA regulatory matters.
The chairman of the audit committee reports half being made up of non-executive directors who, in conjunction on the review of internal controls and any matters arising to the full with the Companys auditors, Grant Thornton, and the auditors of board at the following board meeting.
Using the above process, the the managed funds, KPMG, carry out an external review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls has been reviewed Companys financial controls and also those of the funds which the in respect of the year ended 31st December, 2005.
KPMG and Grant Thornton carry out their review only to the extent necessary to give their audit opinions.
As required by the Revised Combined Code, the board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
Due to the size of Candover, it Identification and evaluation of business risk The key business does not consider an internal audit function appropriate, although this risk at Candover remains the identification and evaluation of our is a matter under continuous review.
However, a number of internal investments and this is achieved by a comprehensive study of checks are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the potential investments by executives in co-operation with outside FSA as well as those checks required to be made to enable the board resources provided by market research specialists, lawyers and to report in compliance with the Internal Controls Guidelines, the accountants.
An investment report is then prepared and, in the case efficiency of which is continuously reviewed.
of an investment by one of the managed funds, is sent to the board of Candover Partners Limited or an appropriate committee for their decision as to whether or not to proceed: and in the case of other investments, a report is sent to the board of Candover Investments plc or an appropriate sub-committee of the board.
27 Candover Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued The audit committee considers the scope and effectiveness of the Companys external auditors.
The Companys auditors, Grant Thornton, also provide non-audit services to the Company.
These services relate mainly to tax advice and do not, in the boards opinion, compromise the independence of Grant Thorntons audit team.
The audit committee has a policy on the provision by the auditors of nonaudit services.
This policy recognises three categories into which nonaudit services may fall, namely work from which the external auditors are excluded, work for which the auditors can be engaged without referral to the audit committee, and work for which a case-by-case decision by the audit committee is necessary.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board A C Peel Company Secretary 23rd March, 2006 28 Candover Report and Accounts 2005
