Cattles ra2005 p16-36 29 3 06 4:01 pm Page 24 24 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Report of the Audit Committee Introduction This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith.
This report gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
Terms of Reference The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on the companys website and are available on application to the Company Secretary at the registered ofce, are reviewed annually by the Committee and any changes are approved by the Board.
The main duties of the Committee set out in the terms of reference are: monitoring the integrity of the companys financial statements: keeping under review the effectiveness of the companys internal controls and risk management systems: reviewing the companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting and other matters: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function in the context of the companys overall risk management system: considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the companys external auditors: and overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, including but not limited to approving their remuneration, assessing annually their independence and objectivity taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the auditors as a whole, including the provision of any non-audit services.
Membership Since A J McWalters appointment on 10 November 2005 and M A Youngs appointment on 1 February 2006 the Audit Committee has comprised the five independent non-executive directors.
N N Broadhurst was the chairman and D A Haxby and F Dee were members of the Committee throughout 2005.
The chairman of the Committee, N N Broadhurst, is a Chartered Accountant FCA and a Fellow of the Institute of Corporate Treasurers and has significant, relevant and up to date financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
N N Broadhurst was previously group finance director of Railtrack PLC 1994 to 2000 and joint deputy chief executive and finance director of VSEL Consortium PLC 1990 to 1994.
The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business experience which is evidenced in their biographical details on page 15.
Meetings The Committee normally meets three times a year and did so in 2005.
All members of the Audit Committee attended each of the three meetings held in 2005 while they were members of the Committee.
Both the external auditors and internal auditors and the Finance Director attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board and the other executive directors usually attend meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
The external auditors have a condential discussion with members of the Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the executive directors being present during part of each meeting.
Work of the Committee The Committee discharges its obligations as follows: At its meetings in March and September, the Committee reviews the companys preliminary announcement and annual report and accounts and interim announcement respectively.
At each of these meetings the Committee receives a report from the external auditors setting out any accounting or judgemental issues which require its attention.
A report from the internal auditors is reviewed at the meetings in March, September and December.
The Committee considers the internal auditors work plan for the following year at its December meeting.
The Committee considers the external auditors audit plan at its September meeting and their pre-year end issues report at its December meeting.
Cattles ra2005 p16-36 29 3 06 4:01 pm Page 25 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 25 At its September and December meetings the Committee reviews the reports of the Risk Management Group, which comprises the executive directors and other key members of senior management, and considers the key risks facing the group and the effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
At its March meeting the Committee considers the annual risk and compliance report produced by the Treasury & Risk Director in relation to the preceding year.
The Committee reviews the fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services at all its meetings and at its March meeting it assesses the external auditors independence and makes a recommendation to the Board as to the appointment or re-appointment of the auditors at the annual general meeting.
Independence of Auditors Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors,  LLP, have put in place safeguards to avoid the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised.
The groups policy with regard to services provided by its external auditors is as follows: Statutory audit services: The external auditors, who are appointed annually by the shareholders, undertake this work.
The external auditors also provide regulatory services and formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
The Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an on-going basis.
Further assurance services: Further assurance services include work relating to the groups adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, due diligence and other non-regulatory reporting.
The groups normal policy is to appoint the external auditors to undertake this work because of their knowledge and experience of the business.
However, the Board reviews their independence and expertise on every assignment.
In particular, the group appointed the external auditors to advise on the adoption of IFRS because they would be auditing the 2005 accounts which were the first financial statements to be drawn up under IFRS.
However, the group also appointed other accounting advisers to advise on specic aspects of the adoption of IFRS.
Tax compliance and tax advisory: Tax compliance involves dealing with the groups corporation tax returns and this work is carried out by  LLP.
Tax advisory services include tax planning and structuring advice for direct and indirect taxes.
The groups policy is for each individual assignment to be assessed separately and awarded depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the relevant work.
Other non-audit services: The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice and information technology services.
The provision of other non-audit services is awarded on a case-by-case basis, depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the work.
These safeguards, which are monitored by the Audit Committee, are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain appropriate.
The appointment of the external auditors to provide non-audit services requires Board approval for any assignments with fees above a set financial limit.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee each year on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
 LLP have formally confirmed their independence to the Board, in respect of the period covered by these financial statements.
The disclosure of the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors during the year is included in note 10 to the financial statements, on page 56.
Norman Broadhurst Chairman of the Audit Committee 16 March 2006
