Cattles ra2005 p16-36 29 3 06 4:01 pm Page 19 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 19 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance For the year ended 31 December 2005 The Board of Cattles plc aims to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance in the belief that such standards are essential to the process of delivering long-term growth in profits and dividends.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, the company complied with the provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except for Code provision A.
3.2 in relation to the number of independent non-executive directors where the Board did not become fully compliant until 22 September 2005.
An explanation for this departure is given under the section of this Report headed Directors and Directors Independence.
Board of Directors The company is managed through the Board of directors.
The Boards main roles are to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed, to set the companys strategic aims and to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and so increase shareholder value.
Normally, there are seven regular Board meetings a year, together with a further meeting which is dedicated to considering the groups budget for the following year and a day devoted to reviewing the groups business strategy, with additional meetings being held as required.
All directors attended each of the seven regular meetings held during 2005 except for A J McWalter who attended the two regular meetings following his appointment on 22 September 2005 and M W G Collins who did not attend the December 2005 meeting because he was in the United States of America on the companys business.
There are a number of matters specically reserved for Board approval, which include approval of the groups overall business strategy, planning and annual budgets, assessment of internal controls and risk management, senior management appointments, approval of major contracts and significant acquisitions, investment and capital expenditure decisions and corporate governance practices, as well as the groups nancing and dividend policies.
At each regularly scheduled Board meeting, there is a full financial and business review and discussion, which includes the comparison of trading performance to date against the annual budget and any other financial plan which has been previously approved by the Board for that year.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack prior to each meeting, which incorporates a formal agenda, separate reports from the Chief Executive and each of the executive directors on their specic areas of responsibility, together with supporting papers for items to be discussed at the meeting.
Board papers are usually sent out one week before the meeting to give the directors sufficient time to prepare for a comprehensive review of the relevant issues at the meeting.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the executive directors: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reect the longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the group as determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the quality of the investment process against objectives: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, B Cottingham, and the Chief Executive, S P Mahon, is clearly dened in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day to day business of the group.
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the group on a day to day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the group.
Senior Independent Director The Board has appointed D A Haxby as Senior Independent Director.
D A Haxby is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 14 and 15.
All the directors served throughout the period under review, except for A J McWalter who was appointed on 22 September 2005 and M A Young who was appointed on 1 February 2006.
The Board includes independent non-executive directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge, and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Cattles ra2005 p16-36 29 3 06 4:01 pm Page 20 20 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Combined Code provision A.
3.2 states that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent and applied to the company for the first time in respect of the year which commenced on 1 January 2004.
Compliance with this provision then required the appointment of two additional independent non-executive directors and F Dee was appointed on 30 June 2004.
The Board continued to search for an additional independent non-executive director and stated in the 2004 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance that it expected to make a further appointment in 2005.
Upon the appointment of A J McWalter as an additional independent non-executive director on 22 September 2005, the Board became fully compliant with Combined Code provision A.
Independent professional advice is provided at the companys expense, when the directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in the Chairmans biography.
The Chairman holds one other non-executive directorship but the Board is satisfied that this does not interfere with the performance of his duties to the company which are based around a commitment of approximately 80 days per annum.
The Chairman ceased to be a non-executive director of Dew Pitchmastic PLC during the year ended 31 December 2005.
The Board considers all its other non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
No independent non-executive director: has been an employee of the group within the last five years: has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the group: receives remuneration other than a directors fee: has close family ties with any of the groups advisers, directors or senior employees: holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: represents a significant shareholder: or has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Professional Development On appointment, the directors take part in an induction programme when they receive information about the group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board committees, together with the powers delegated to those committees, the groups corporate governance practices and procedures, and the latest financial information about the group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
Throughout their period in ofce the directors are continually updated on the groups business, the competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes affecting the group and the financial services industry by written briengs and Board presentations by senior executives.
Directors are also updated on changes to their legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a listed company.
Performance Evaluation The Board has established a formal process led by the Chairman for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and the individual directors, with particular attention being paid to those who are due for re-appointment.
The directors are made aware, on appointment, that their performance will be subject to an evaluation.
In 2004 the Chairman commissioned a questionnaire from an independent adviser to provide a framework for the evaluation process and provide the Chairman with a means of making year to year comparisons.
The questionnaire included specic references to the objectives of the Board and its Committees.
Each director was asked by the independent adviser to complete the questionnaire.
The adviser then collated the results from the completed questionnaires and presented the consolidated results to the Chairman.
The evaluation results were discussed at Board level and appropriate actions agreed.
During 2005 the Chairman circulated the 2004 evaluation results to the directors and asked them to inform him of any changes or new recommendations or comments they would like to make.
The Chairman subsequently reported back to the directors on the steps taken during 2005 to implement the actions set in 2004 and the new recommendations made in 2005.
Cattles ra2005 p16-36 29 3 06 4:01 pm Page 21 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 21 The Chairman conducts the annual appraisals of the four executive directors in relation to their duties as directors of the company and the five non-executive directors.
These appraisals are conducted in separate meetings between the Chairman and each director, at which the directors contribution to Board proceedings is reviewed and the directors views on his own performance and the operation of the Board are discussed.
The Chairman reports to the Board on any issues requiring Board consideration.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors meet annually, without the presence of the Chairman, to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director subsequently has a meeting with the Chairman on a similar basis as the Chairmans meeting with each director.
Individual written personal objectives in relation to their management roles are prepared at the beginning of the financial year by each executive director.
After agreement with the Chief Executive, and in the case of the Chief Executive with the Chairman, these objectives are submitted to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and approval on behalf of the Board.
The Chief Executive conducts an annual appraisal of the performance of the other executive directors which includes an assessment of their individual performance against their personal objectives set at the beginning of the accounting period and a formal interview.
The same process is conducted by the Chairman in respect of the Chief Executive.
The extent to which executive directors personal objectives have been achieved is determined during this review process, the results of which are submitted to, and taken into account by, the Remuneration Committee in nalising the executive directors bonuses for the year.
Re-election Subject to the companys Articles of Association, the Companies Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, but may be invited to serve one or two additional three year terms if the Nomination Committee believes this to be appropriate.
The re-appointment of directors who have served for more than nine years is subject to annual review and re-election by the shareholders.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The companys Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Standing Committees of the Board The Board has established three standing Committees, each with formal terms of reference, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The terms of reference are published on the companys website and are available on application to the Company Secretary at the companys registered ofce.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all three standing committees.
Audit Committee Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during 2005 are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 24 and 25.
Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during 2005 and the groups remuneration policy are set out in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 26 to 35.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, three of the independent non-executive directors N N Broadhurst, D A Haxby and F Dee and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board, B Cottingham.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference include preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a new Board appointment in light of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the companys requirements, identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board for the approval of the Board and reviewing the succession plans for the groups Board and senior management.
The Nomination Committee has access to recruitment consultants to ensure it receives objective and independent advice.
During 2005 the Nomination Committee met twice and, with the assistance of recruitment consultants, recommended to the Board the appointment of A J McWalter as an additional independent non-executive director and started the search which led to the appointment of M A Young as an additional independent non-executive director on 1 February 2006.
All members of the Nomination Committee attended both of the meetings held in 2005 while they were members of the Committee.
Cattles ra2005 p16-36 29 3 06 4:01 pm Page 22 22 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains a close relationship with the companys major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Treasury & Risk Director maintain regular contact with major institutional shareholders, who are offered a personal meeting with the Chief Executive and other executive directors at least twice each year.
The Chairman attends the presentations to analysts of the companys Interim and Final Results and all major shareholders are offered a personal meeting with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, if they so require.
Major shareholders are also given the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors on their appointment.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to provide non-attributed feedback to the Board through discussions with the companys stockbrokers, HSBC Bank plc and Citigroup Global Markets Limited.
As required by the Combined Code, the Chairman relays to the Board any issues raised with him by shareholders.
This is supplemented by a report by the Chief Executive of shareholders views following the presentations of the Interim and Final Results.
The directors also receive reports from the companys advisers on the markets views of the company both before and after the announcement of the Interim and Final Results and copies of analysts reports.
In October 2005, the Board appointed Makinson Cowell to carry out an audit of the views of the companys major institutional shareholders in order to ascertain their understanding of and attitudes to the company and its standing in the equity market.
Makinson Cowell presented their findings to the directors in February 2006.
The annual general meeting is seen as an opportunity to communicate with other shareholders and all directors are expected to attend.
The Chief Executive gives a presentation to shareholders at the annual general meeting on the groups results for the year.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the annual general meeting.
Information relating to this years annual general meeting can be found on pages 110 to 114 and shareholders are invited to submit in advance any questions which they would like to ask at the annual general meeting by completing and returning the form which is enclosed with this annual report.
In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters relating to the trading or development of the group are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
co. uk, includes a section focusing specically on investor relations.
All such announcements are accessible on the website once made.
In addition, the materials used in the presentations to analysts of the companys Interim and Final Results and the webcasts of these presentations are accessible on the website after the presentations have been made.
Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting The directors believe that the annual report presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and future prospects.
The Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review, which can be found on pages 4 to 11, together provide a detailed assessment of the groups affairs.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described within the Report of the Directors on page 17.
The companys financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to being submitted to the Board for approval.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the groups internal control system, which embraces all risks faced by the group, including business, operational and compliance risks.
The directors recognise, however, that there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and as such the controls can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group has continued to comply with the guidance provided by the Turnbull Committee in a document entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull guidance, through an on-going process to identify and evaluate key areas of risk, both financial and non-financial, the groups perceived tolerance or commercial appetite towards such risks and the policies and procedures which should be adopted in order to manage the likely exposure.
This process, which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Cattles ra2005 p16-36 29 3 06 4:01 pm Page 23 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 23 The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal control system on at least a six monthly basis and reporting to the Board thereon.
Such reviews have been conducted during the financial year.
The principal features of the groups internal control system can be summarised as follows: A clearly dened organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive management supported by established policies and procedures.
Primary responsibility of the Board to ensure that the major business risks facing the group are identied and that appropriate policies are developed for the management of those risks.
The Board, however, recognises that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Risks are identied and evaluated by reference to impact and likelihood through a series of structured, high level interviews and facilitated risk management workshops.
The engagement of a leading rm of professional advisers for the provision of a complete range of internal audit services, with a direct reporting link to the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Group.
A Risk Management Group, comprising the executive directors and other key members of senior management, reviews key group risks together with the effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of these risks.
The Risk Management Group meets twice yearly, with representatives of the groups internal auditors being in attendance and reports to the Audit Committee.
Delegation of the responsibility for on-going maintenance of the system of internal control procedures to the executive management, specically designated Risk Champions for all business areas and appropriate working parties.
The system ensures that successive assurances are provided to ascending levels of management and changes in the risk proles for all business areas are monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
The group is continuing to develop its risk management framework further to ensure that risk monitoring and reporting is embedded at all levels of management and throughout all areas of the groups operations.
Arrangements by which staff of the company may raise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, together with arrangements for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action and reporting to the Board.
Operation of a comprehensive planning and financial reporting system, which covers income, expenditure, cash ows and balance sheets.
Annual budgets and medium term plans are approved by the Board and monitored against actual performance on a monthly basis to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
The annual budget is reviewed and reforecast on a regular basis.
Adoption of a schedule of matters specically reserved for the approval of the Board ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and compliance issues.
As described on page 19, the Board has identied a number of key areas, which are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
The Board also reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the group.
Going Concern Under company law, the directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on the basis that the company and the group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practices, the group prepares annual budgets and longer term financial and business plans.
In reviewing this information, the directors are satisfied that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the groups financial statements.
By order of the Board Roland Todd Company Secretary 16 March 2006
