Directors Remuneration Report Introduction Directors Fees This report is submitted in accordance with the The fees payable by the Company in respect of Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 each of the directors who served during the year in respect of the year ended 30 June 2005. and previous year are listed below.
From 1 January 2005 the annual fees paid to the directors are Remuneration Policy 26,250 Chairman, 18,500 Chairman of the All directors are non-executive and it should be Audit Committee and 17, 500 directors.
noted that a Remuneration Committee has not Audited 2005 2004 been established.
The whole board considers matters relating to directors remuneration and was Simon fide Zoete 25,500 24,750 not provided with advice or services by any Sir Keith Stuart i 17, 500 16,500 Mark Nicholls 17, 000 16,500 external person in respect of its consideration of Angus Russell 17, 000 16,500 the directors remuneration.
Helen W eir 17, 000 16,500 cccc TOT AL 94,000 90,750 The Companys policy is that the fees payable to mmmm the directors should reflect the time spent by the i Chairman of the Audit Committee.
board on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne by the directors and be Expenses sufficient to enable candidates of high calibre to During the year ended 30 June 2005 no expenses be recruited.
The Chairman of the board is paid a were paid 2004: nil.
higher fee in recognition of his additional Performance Graph responsibilities, as is the Chairman of the Audit The FTSE AllShare Index has been selected for Committee.
The policy is to review fee rates the chart below as this was the Companys annually, although such review will not necessarily benchmark index.
result in any change to the rates, and account is taken of fees paid to directors of other investment 1,200 trust companies.
1,100 There are no long term incentive schemes provided 1,000 by the Company and no performance fees are paid to directors.
900 800 No director has a service contract with the Company.
There are no set notice periods and a 700 director may resign by notice in writing to the 600 board at any time.
Directors are remunerated in the form of fees, payable quarterly in arrears, to the director personally or to a third party specified by the director.
No other remuneration or compensation was paid or payable by the Company during the By order of the board year to any of the current or former directors.
K M Burwood FCIS Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in For and on behalf of place in respect of the directors.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary 13 September 2005 18 Corporate Governance Background be arranged as required.
The number of formal meetings The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies of the b oard and its committees held during the financial todisclose how they have applied the principles and year and the attendance of individual directors are complied with the provisions of the revised Combined shown below.
All directors attend the Annual General Code the Code.
The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance Board Audit Nominations and the AITC Code of Corporate Governance were issued Committee Committee in July 2003.
The board has adopted all elements of the No of meetings 102 1 codes which are relevant to the Company.
Simon fide Zoete10 n a 1 Mark Nicholls 102 1 Application of the Codes Principles Angus Russell 10 n a 1 The board attaches importance to the matters set out in Sir Keith Stuart 102 1 both the Combined Code and the AITC Code and Helen W eir 9 2 1 observes the relevant Main and Supporting Principles.
It should be noted that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to day responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees third parties and the directors are all non-executive.
Thus, The board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and not all the provisions of the Code are directly applicable to the Nominations Committee.
T erms of Reference for these the Company.
Committees are available on the Companys website.
The board has not formed a Management Engagement Board Independence and Composition Committee as it remains the role of the board as a whole to The board currently consists of five non-executive keep under review the terms of the management directors.
The directors reviewed their independence and agreement between the Company and the Investment confirm that all directors remain wholly independent of Manager.
Henderson Global Investors Limited the Investment Manager.
No director has links with the Investment Audit Committee Manager, all directors have a wide range of other interests The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart and are not dependent in any way on the Company itself.
Chairman, Mark Nicholls and Helen W eir.
Collectively the The Chairmans other significant commitments are detailed members of the Audit Committee are considered to have on page 2 and have not changed during the year.
On the necessary recent and relevant financial experience.
length of tenure the board subscribes to the AITCCode The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is and in the event of a director having more than nine years responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the service the board would explain the reasons for nature and scope of the external audit and the findings considering such a director to be independent.
therefrom, the terms of appointment of the auditors The directors biographies, set out on page 2, demonstrate together with their remuneration, performance, the breadth of investment, commercial and professional independence and objectivity, as well as any non-audit experience relevant to their positions as directors.
The services provided by the auditors, and the interim report.
It board believes that retaining directors with sufficient meets with representatives of the Investment Manager and experience of both the Company and the markets is of receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the great benefit to shareholders.
accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
At least eight scheduled b oard meetings are held each year to deal with the important aspects of the Nominations Committee Companys affairs, including the setting and monitoring The Nominations Committee meets at least annually and of investment strategy, gearing policy, the review of considers board succession planning, the review of the investment performance and the level of the discount or performance of the board as a whole and the board premium to net asset value and the evaluation of the Committees and the appointment of new directors.
Additional meetings of the b oard may directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
19 Corporate Governance continued The Chairman of the board acts as Chairman of the Reappointment as a director is not automatic and will Nominations Committee but would not chair the follow a process of evaluation of each directors Committee when the Chairmans successor was performance.
In accordance with the Combined Code any being considered.
director serving for longer than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and any director serving for longer than nine years would The Chairman is a non-executive director.
A senior be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
independent director has not been identified as the b oard considers that all the directors have different Directors Training qualities and areas of expertise on which they may When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a lead where issues arise.
training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key Performance Evaluation information on the Companys policies, regulatory and The Company statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes The performance of the Company is considered in detail at affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the board each board meeting.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant The Board training and industry seminars.
The Chairman reviews each individual directors Directors Remuneration contribution on an annual basis and the work of the board The board as a whole considers directors remuneration as a whole and the board Committees is also reviewed and therefore has not appointed a separate Remuneration annually by the Nominations Committee.
As the Company is an investment trust and all without the Chairman present in order to review the directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to performance of the Chairman.
comply with the principles of the Code in respect of the executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are T enure Policy detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 18.
All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions Responsibilities and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, stand The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the for election at the first Annual General Meeting following purchase and sale of individual investments.
Investment Manager also ensures that all directors receive, Directors will retire at intervals of not more than three in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory years to ensure compliance with the Code.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each board meeting enabling Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment the directors to probe further on matters of concern or The Nominations Committee considers succession seek clarification on certain issues.
planning bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and experience existing on the board and will recommend A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for when the further recruitment of non-executive directors is decision by the full board has been defined and a required.
The Committee aims to maintain a balance of procedure adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their relevant skills, experience, ages and length of service of duties, to take independent professional advice at the the directors serving on the board.
expense of the Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Once a decision is made to recruit additional directors to corporate Company Secretary through its appointed the board, each director is invited to submit nominations representative who is responsible to the board for ensuring and these are considered in accordance with the boards that board procedures are followed and that applicable agreed procedures.
The Nominations Committee considers rules and regulations are complied with.
The board and the use of external agencies as and when the requirement Investment Manager operate in a supportive, co-operative to recruit an additional board member becomes necessary.
20 Corporate Governance continued Continued Appointment of the Investment evaluating and managing any major risks faced by Manager the Company.
The process is subject to regular The board reviews the performance of the review by the board and accords with the Internal Investment Manager at each board meeting.
In the Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined opinion of the directors the continued appointment Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull of the current Investment Manager on the terms Guidance.
The process has been in place since agreed is in the interests of the Companys 2 March 2000 and up to the date of approval of this shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager annual report.
has extensive investment management resources The board is responsible overall for the Companys and wide experience in managing and administering system of internal control and for reviewing its investment trust companies.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to Accountability and Audit achieve the Companys business objectives and can The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance respect of the Accounts is set out on page 22, the against material misstatement or loss.
Independent Auditors Report on page 23 and the Statement of Going Concern on page 17.
The board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a full review of the Companys business The board has delegated contractually to external risks and these have been analysed and recorded in a third parties, including the Investment Manager, the risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The board management of the investment portfolio, the receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a custodial services which include the safeguarding formal report which details the steps taken to monitor of the assets, the day to day accounting, company the areas of risk, including those that are not directly secretarial and administration requirements and the responsibility of the Investment Manager, and registration services.
Each of these contracts was which reports the details of any known internal entered into after full and proper consideration by control failures.
The board receives each year from the board of the quality and cost of the services the Investment Manager a report on its internal offered, including the control systems in operation in controls which includes a report from the Investment so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Managers auditors on the control policies and The board receives and considers regular reports procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be from the Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and taken to embed the system of internal control and information are supplied to the board as required.
In risk management into the operation and culture of the addition, the Chairman attends meetings of all the Company and its keysuppliers.
chairmen of the investment trust companies managed The Company does not have an internal audit by the Investment Manager: these meetings provide a function: it delegates to third parties most of its forum to discuss industry matters and the Chairman operations and does not employ any staff.
The reports on them to the board.
board will continue to monitor its system of internal The Investment Manager has established an internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates control framework to provide reasonable but not as intended and the directors will review from time absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the to time whether a function equivalent to an internal internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance Relations with Shareholders and risk department on a continuing basis.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime medium by which the Company Internal Controls communicates with shareholders is through the The board has established a process for identifying, Interim and Annual Report and Accounts which aim 21
