CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board of the company the board has reviewed its Corporate Governance practices and, together with relevant information contained in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 19 to 25 and the Report of the Directors on pages 13 and 14, this statement explains how the company has applied the principles of good governance contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code for the year ended 31st July, 2005.
Board Responsibilities The board currently comprises five executive directors and seven non-executive directors, including the chairman.
The senior independent director is Mr. P. S. S. Macpherson.
The board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties and meets regularly throughout the year normally monthly to deal with important aspects of the groups affairs, including setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring adequate financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
The chairman is responsible for the running of the board and the chief executive is responsible for the running of the companys business which ensures a clear division of responsibility at the head of the company.
The management board, comprising solely senior executives of the group, assists the chief executive both in developing strategy and business objectives, and with the day to day management of the group.
All directors have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary and outside professional advisers as necessary, at the companys expense.
The board has appointed the following committees, whose members are all non-executive directors, with the following summarised terms of reference, details of which are available on the companys website: Audit and Compliance Committee Messrs. D. G. J. Paterson chairman, P. N. Buckley, P. S. S. Macpherson and J. P. Williams.
In December 2004 the Bank and Non-Bank Audit and Compliance Committees were combined to form one committee whose terms of reference are to review the scope and findings of the internal and external auditors, to commission any additional investigation work, to review the adequacy of controls and procedures including reputational, financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management and to consider the form and content of published announcements and statutory accounts.
Remuneration Committee Messrs. M. G. A. McLintock chairman, P. N. Buckley and P. S. S. Macpherson.
To determine the remuneration of the executive directors and the senior executives of the group.
Nomination and Governance Committee Sir David Scholey chairman and Messrs. P. N. Buckley, R. D. Kent and M. G. A. McLintock.
To consider the appointment or retirement of directors, to review proposed nominations and governance procedures and to make recommendations thereon to the board.
Before an appointment is made the skills, knowledge and experience required for a particular appointment are evaluated and external advisers may be used to facilitate the search for suitable candidates.
Other duties of the committee include regular reviews of the structure, size and composition of the board, consideration of the leadership needs of the group and succession planning, and assessment of the contribution of non-executive directors.
Board Evaluation The board conducts a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The non-executive directors meet once a year in the company of the chief executive and the chairman leads a formal review and discussion of the performance of the board and its committees.
The performance of individual executive directors is formally assessed annually by the chief executive and reviewed with the nonexecutive directors.
Non-executive directors performance is assessed by the chairman, the senior independent director and the chief executive.
The chairmans performance is reviewed by the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, having consulted with the executive directors.
Following its annual performance review, the board concluded that each of its committees and each of its directors remained effective and committed to their role.
In addition, in respect of the audit and compliance committee, the board are satisfied that the chairman of that committee, Mr. D. G. J. Paterson, has recent and relevant financial experience.
15 Close Brothers CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Attendance at Meetings The following table identifies the number of board and committee meetings held in the year to 31st July, 2005 and the attendance record of their members: Audit and Nomination and Scheduled Compliance Remuneration Governance Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 11 4 3 2 Executive: M. A. Hines 11 S. R. Hodges 11 C. D. Keogh 11 D. C. Pusinelli 11 P. L. Winkworth 9 Non-executive: P. N. Buckley 9 3 2 2 R. D. Kent 8 2 P. S. S. Macpherson 11 3 2 M. G. A. McLintock 9 32 D. G. J. Paterson 11 4 Sir David Scholey 10 2 J. P. Williams 11 4 M. G. Wyatt alt.
Independence of Non-executive Directors The board is of the opinion that each non-executive director acts in an independent and objective manner.
Within the terms of the Combined Code these directors were independent with the exception of Mr. R. D. Kent who was an executive director until 31st October, 2002.
The board opinion was determined by considering for each non-executive director: whether he is independent in character and judgement: how he conducts himself in board meetings: whether he has any relationships or whether there are any circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement: and whether he acts in the best interests of the company and all its shareholders at all times.
Furthermore, in determining that Messrs. P. N. Buckley and M. G. A. McLintock are independent notwithstanding their directorships of Caledonia Investments plc which owns approximately 12 per cent.
of the company and Prudential plc which has an interest in approximately 10 per cent.
of the company held across a range of its investment and managed funds respectively, the board took into account that neither of them attends board meetings as appointee of those companies.
Additionally, in respect of Mr. P. N. Buckley, who has served on the board for nine years, the board believes that it is essential that non-executive directors have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the knowledge and experience of the business and the sectors within which the group operates.
Internal Control The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to ensure that the reputational, financial, operational and compliance risks taken by the company and its subsidiaries in the conduct of their business are identified and evaluated so that appropriate controls are put in place to manage those risks.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control is supported by a well established organisational structure within the group, with clear levels of responsibility and delegation of authority and a strong control culture embedded in the day to day management of each operating company.
Each operating company in the group regularly undertakes a review of, and reports to its board on, these controls and procedures, having due regard to its key risks.
Where necessary, steps are taken to improve internal control and risk management further, following these reviews.
The Financial Review Statement on pages 6 to 8 details these key risks and explains how they are controlled.
16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group control, which is the central internal audit and compliance unit, regularly reviews the effectiveness of controls and procedures established in each company to manage key risks.
The head of group control reports through the audit and compliance committee to the board, to which he has unrestricted access through the chairman.
The company has complied with the Turnbull Committees guidance for directors.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is regularly reviewed by the board, and which has been in place for the year ended 31 July, 2005 and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements.
Auditors Independence The group employs two firms of auditors.
Ernst & Young LLP are the auditors of Close Brothers Limited, the banking subsidiary, and its subsidiaries and of Close Brothers Seydler AG.
Deloitte & Touche LLP are the auditors of the company and the remainder of the group.
In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the group will typically use the auditors for other work that they are well placed to undertake because of that role.
This includes formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars: regulatory, pension scheme and other ancillary audit work: work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: and tax compliance.
Several firms are considered for other work, including the auditors in some instances.
In such cases due consideration is given to the impact of the assignment on the independence of the auditors and to their qualifications to carry out the role, including competitive tenders for larger assignments.
Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by the auditors, and after review with the responsible partners in the two firms and the executive directors, the Audit and Compliance Committee is satisfied as to the independence of the statutory auditors.
Relations with Shareholders The group has a programme of communication with shareholders through the interim and annual reports, the Annual General Meeting and regular webcasts.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to participate by asking questions at the Annual General Meeting, or by submitting written questions in advance.
The groups website at www.
co. uk contains information on the group, including up to date relevant shareholder information, as well as information on the products and services it offers.
Communication with the groups major institutional shareholders is undertaken by a programme of visits and presentations.
Feedback from this programme is reported to the board to ensure it develops an understanding of the views of the major shareholders of the company.
Going Concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial statements, the group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Compliance with the Combined Code The company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31st July, 2005.
