64 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board supports the highest standards of corporate governance.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance BOC has applied the principles contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out therein as they applied to the company.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 BOC has securities registered in the US and, as a result, is required to comply with the provisions of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley that apply to foreign private issuers.
Whilst the company already has a robust corporate governance framework in line with best practice under UK standards, the requirements of SarbanesOxley were considered and adjustments made to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley as far as it applies to BOC.
The board continues to monitor the implementation of the rules to ensure continued compliance.
As recommended by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, BOC has established a disclosure committee.
The committee comprises the Group finance director, Group legal director and representatives from the finance, company secretarial, treasury, investor relations, risk management and human resources functions.
It is responsible for overseeing and advising on the disclosure process for the quarterly announcements and on the content and form of the annual report and Form 20-F. To permit the signing of the certifications required by Sarbanes-Oxley the committee makes recommendations to the executive management board on the adequacy of Group disclosure controls and procedures.
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Listing Standards The New York Stock Exchange NYSE has in place listing standards related to the corporate governance practices of listed companies.
BOC, as a foreign private issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE, is required to comply with certain of these rules, in particular as they relate to audit committees, and must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards.
At this time BOC does not believe that there are any significant differences in the corporate governance practices followed by the company as compared to those followed by US domestic companies, except that the membership of the nomination committee is not composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The membership of the nomination committee is however in line with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which permits membership of this committee to be composed of a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The board There are 12 members of the board namely the chairman, five executive directors and six non-executive directors who collectively have responsibility for leadership of the company.
This is considered to be the optimum size for the board, providing a balance between executive management and non-executives and bringing a good mix of skills and experience.
As has been demonstrated during 2005 changes to the boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
The directors holding office at the date of this report and their biographical details are given on pages 8 and 9.
The executive directors are the chief executive, Group finance director and the three chief executives of the lines of business.
Kent Masters was appointed chief executive, Industrial and Special Products and a member of the board on 1 March 2005 in place of John Walsh who resigned from the board on 1 March 2005.
Alan Ferguson joined the company as Group finance director on 15 September 2005 and was appointed to the board on 30 September 2005 in place of Ren Mdori who resigned on 31 May 2005.
The board believes that executive directors and members of the executive management board can gain valuable experience and knowledge by taking on non-executive directorships of other listed companies.
Such appointments are subject to review by the nomination committee and approval of the board and, unless otherwise agreed, only one non-executive directorship may be held in a FTSE100 company.
Executives are permitted to retain any fees in respect of such external appointments, details of which are set out in the report on remuneration on page 76.
The roles of chairman and chief executive have been separate since 1994.
Rob Margetts as chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly the non-executive directors, is able to make an effective contribution.
He monitors, with assistance from the company secretary, the information distributed to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
He meets twice a year with the non-executive directors without the executive management present.
Between meetings, the chairman has responsibility for maintaining the integrity and effectiveness of the board.
This requires his interaction with the chief executive between board meetings, as well as his contact with other board members and shareholders.
Tony Isaac as chief executive maintains day-to-day executive management responsibility for the Groups operations, implementing Group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive has been agreed by the board.
Corporate governance 65 During the year Rob Margetts commitments have not changed.
Details are set out in his biography on page 8.
During 2005, as part of the board evaluation process, the non-executive directors, led by Sir Christopher ODonnell as the senior independent director, reviewed the chairmans performance and considered this against the background of his other commitments.
In their view the chairman has performed well against all the measured criteria.
He has consistently demonstrated full commitment to his responsibilities at BOC and he has always made himself available when circumstances have required additional time commitment.
Rob Margetts appointment as chairman assumes he will spend approximately one and a half days a week on activities at BOC.
The board is satisfied that he has the personal commitment, the available time, including additional time should circumstances demand it, to fulfil his responsibilities as chairman.
Furthermore, the board is of the view that Rob Margetts expertise and the continuity that he brings to the post of chairman, is of great benefit to BOC.
The senior independent director is Sir Christopher ODonnell.
He has responsibility for chairing meetings of the non-executive directors at which the chairmans performance is appraised.
He is also available to shareholders should they have any concerns which contact through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may be inappropriate.
During the year Iain Napier and Julie Baddeley resigned as independent non-executive directors on 22 December 2004 and 28 February 2005 respectively.
Rebecca McDonald was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 July 2005.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year term after which, whilst not automatic, their appointment may be extended for a second term subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
The Group has long recognised the vital role that non-executive directors play in ensuring high governance standards.
BOC has for many years had high calibre non-executive directors who bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the BOC board.
The board has determined that all the non-executive directors are independent in accordance with the definition of that term in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and that they have no relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The board has considered the position of Matthew Miau and determined that he is independent, notwithstanding that he is also a non-executive director of BOC Lienhwa Industrial Gases Company Limited, a 50:50 joint venture in Taiwan between BOC and Lien Hwa Industrial Corporation.
He is a representative of Lien Hwa Industrial Corporation, a Taiwanese company.
He does not have any executive responsibilities with either company.
Matthew Miau is the chairman of MiTAC-Synnex Group, a major electronics organisation with a turnover greater than that of BOC, and he brings considerable expertise in the electronics and semiconductor markets and an Asian business perspective to the board of BOC.
The turnover of the joint venture attributable to BOC represents approximately one per cent of the Groups total turnover.
The board has satisfied itself that neither this association nor the time period with which he has been connected with the company are of sufficient significance to either BOC or Matthew Miau to compromise his independence.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
In particular the boards main focus is on strategic and policy issues, reviewing objectives and performance and the overall management of the Group.
The board also has responsibility for the review and monitoring of key company policies in such areas as risk management, corporate governance, treasury matters and corporate social responsibility including safety, environment and the Code of Conduct as well as all matters relating to the companys listings on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
On an annual basis the board reviews the senior managers and their succession and development plans.
The board has to approve all Group commitments in excess of 25 million.
Presentations are made to the board on major projects and periodic reviews are given by management from each of the lines of business and Gist.
The board delegates certain functions to committees.
There are six board committees, details of which are given below.
The board meets six times a year, with two meetings held at major operating subsidiaries.
One of the board meetings is combined with a strategy meeting lasting over a two day period.
The meetings held at operating sites provide the opportunity for the board to meet with the local management teams and receive presentations about the local business operations.
During 2005 the board visited the Groups operations in South Africa and Poland.
66 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance The attendance of directors at board and principal board committee meetings during the year are detailed in the chart below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee six meetings four meetings six meetings six meetings Rob Margetts 6 n a 6 n a Tony Isaac 6 n a 6 n a 1 Julie Baddeley 3 233 John Bevan 6 n a n a n a Andrew Bonfield 6 4 6 6 Guy Dawson 6 4 6 6 2 Alan Ferguson n a n a n a n a 3 Kent Masters 3 n a n a n a 4 Rebecca McDonald 1 111 5 Ren Mdori 5 n a n a n a 6 Matthew Miau 6 265 7 Iain Napier 1 122 Sir Christopher ODonnell 6 4 6 6 Anne Quinn 6 4 6 6 Raj Rajagopal 6 n a n a n a 8 John Walsh 3 n a n a n a 1.
Julie Baddeley resigned on 28 February 2005 and she attended all board and committee meetings up to her resignation.
Alan Ferguson was appointed on 30 September 2005.
This being the last day of the financial year he did not attend any board meetings.
Kent Masters was appointed on 1 March 2005 and he has attended all board meetings since his appointment.
Rebecca McDonald was appointed on 1 July 2005 and she has attended all board and committee meetings since her appointment.
Ren Mdori resigned on 31 May 2005 and he attended all board meetings up to his resignation.
Matthew Miau missed three committee meetings due to conflicts in his schedule.
Iain Napier resigned on 22 December 2004.
He attended all committee meetings up to his resignation but missed one board meeting due to a conflict in his schedule.
John Walsh resigned on 1 March 2005 and he attended all board meetings up to his resignation.
Throughout 2005 the company continued to maintain directors and officers insurance.
There is a well established procedure enabling any director, in the furtherance of his or her duties as a BOC director, to seek independent professional advice at the companys expense.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct board procedures are followed and advises the board on all corporate governance matters.
In addition the company secretary manages the provision of information and documentation, notably meeting papers, to the board promptly with enough time to enable them to prepare fully for any meeting.
Both the appointment and the removal of the company secretary are matters for the whole board.
Induction and professional development Upon joining the board, new directors are required to undertake a full induction comprising, as appropriate to the individual, site visits, meetings with the line of business chief executives, each member of the executive management board and also key advisers.
New directors are also advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company.
This is supplemented by a reference binder, which is regularly updated, including information about the board, the committees, directors duties, procedures for dealing in the companys shares and other regulatory and governance matters.
Appropriate training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience and any training requirements identified during the annual performance review process.
The company secretary monitors the availability and suitability of external courses, details of which are circulated to the board.
During the year certain directors attended external seminars relating to specific areas of their responsibility.
The board receives regular briefings on governance and regulatory matters affecting the Group and its market sector activity and also on litigation relating to the Group.
The non-executive directors have full access to management and both internal and external auditors, and are encouraged to stay fully abreast of the Groups business, aided by site visits and meetings with senior management.
Corporate governance 67 Performance evaluation In line with the boards decision to alternate each year between an internally and an externally facilitated review process, during 2005 an externally facilitated review was undertaken with the emphasis on continuous improvement and effectiveness of the board, its committees and the individual directors.
The review focused on matters such as the role and organisation of the board, the monitoring of Group performance, board leadership and culture and board priority tasks including strategy and safety.
The effectiveness of each of the principal committees was evaluated as was the performance of each director.
The chairman met with each director to give feedback on his or her individual performance.
The results of the review were presented to the board.
The chairmen of each of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees reviewed the results of the evaluation of each committee at meetings of their respective committees.
The results were very positive, showing an improvement in performance overall since the previous review.
Where areas for improvement have been identified, actions are being agreed.
From the results of the 2005 review the board and principal committees are comfortable that they are operating effectively and that all directors continue to contribute effectively and are committed to their respective roles at BOC.
Sir Christopher ODonnell, as senior independent director, led a meeting of the non-executive directors to review the performance of the chairman.
Comments on the chairmans performance are given on page 65.
Board committees There are six board committees to which the board delegates specific areas of responsibility as described below.
The terms of reference of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are available on the companys website www.
com or upon request to the company secretary.
Whilst only the members of each committee are entitled to attend the respective committee meetings, the chairmen of each committee invite, as they consider appropriate, management and advisers to certain meetings to assist the committees in carrying out their duties.
Audit committee Members:Andrew Bonfield, Guy Dawson, Rebecca McDonald, Matthew Miau, Sir Christopher ODonnell chairman and Anne Quinn.
All members are independent non-executive directors.
The primary objective of the audit committee is to assist the board of directors in fulfilling its responsibilities related to: financial reporting and quarterly results announcements: ensuring the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors: determining the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment.
The audit committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis.
The audit committee meets four times a year, the agendas being organised around the companys financial reporting cycle.
Members attendance at meetings is detailed on page 66 and their qualifications are on pages 8 and 9.
Time is set aside at one of these meetings for the committee to meet with the internal and the external auditors separately without the executive management present.
The committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, matters raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports to the committee and the quarterly financial statements prior to their release, as well as the arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns.
The committee also monitors that an appropriate relationship between BOC and the external auditors is maintained and reviews the policies and procedures in place to ensure the independence and objectivity of the audit.
The work undertaken by the committee during 2005 is described in more detail in its report below.
Andrew Bonfield is considered by the board to be the audit committee financial expert.
He is considered to be independent in accordance with the definition of that term in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the New York Stock Exchange listing standards.
All other members of the committee are financially literate.
68 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance Audit committee report In 2005 the audit committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in the terms of reference and the specific matters reviewed by the committee included: i interim and full year financial results and announcement statements: ii interim and full year report from the internal audit function of progress against the 2005 audit plan and effectiveness of internal controls: iii the Groups project to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
This review included the project plan, progress against the plan and matters arising in the implementation of the plan: iv details of the Groups project to transition to International Financial Reporting Standards from 2006: v the external audit plan for 2005 presented by the Groups auditors,  LLP PwC.
This review included the audit objectives, auditor independence and objectivity policies managed by PwC, partner rotation, audit scope, team, timetable deliverables and fee proposal: vi the annual report disclosure items relevant to the audit committee.
Included in this review were the Groups critical accounting policies, the going concern statement, the report on risk and internal controls and the risk factors statement.
The audit committee also reviewed the disclosure control review procedures employed by the Group which enabled the chief executive and Group finance director to sign the Section 302 and 906 certificates pursuant to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act: vii the external auditors report to the committee for 2005: viii the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including a review of non-audit fees.
The audit committee has reviewed and approved a policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
This policy has been in place since 2002 and defines services which can be provided by the auditors.
The policy also specifies which services cannot be provided.
The policy requires all non-audit services to be approved in advance by the audit committee, which has delegated this task to the chairman of the audit committee.
The approval process requires full disclosure of the objectives and scope of the services to be performed and fee structure.
The audit committee reviews all approved services at subsequent meetings.
The auditors are permitted to perform non-audit services only if the scope of work is within the terms of the policy and there is a business benefit to the Group in these services being performed by the external auditors rather than an alternative supplier.
The level of the fee spend is closely monitored to ensure independence and objectivity of the audit is maintained.
Further details of actual fees paid to external auditors are given in note 2c on page 97: ix the procedures by which staff can report, in confidence, any matters of a financial or non-financial nature alleging breaches of the Groups Code of Conduct.
The audit committee also reviewed the procedures by which allegations are reported to senior management and the audit committee.
During this period the audit committee met with the Groups external auditors without the presence of management.
The audit committee also met with the Groups head of internal audit without the presence of management.
The head of internal audit has access to the chairman of the audit committee, if necessary, outside of meetings.
Regular attendees to audit committee meetings, at the invitation of the chairman of the committee, include: the chairman, chief executive, Group finance director, director of risk management, head of business assurance audit, director financial planning and control, and the external auditors.
Other senior managers are invited to attend as required to participate in presentations or discussions to enable the committee to discharge its duties.
The audit committee concludes that, based on the foregoing, it has discharged its responsibilities as set out in the terms of reference and is satisfied that auditor independence and objectivity have been maintained.
Nomination committee Members:Andrew Bonfield, Guy Dawson, Tony Isaac, Rob Margetts chairman, Rebecca McDonald, Matthew Miau, Sir Christopher ODonnell and Anne Quinn.
The majority of members are independent non-executive directors.
The nomination committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis.
The nomination committee meets periodically as required but at least annually.
During 2005 the committee met six times.
Members attendance at meetings is detailed on page 66.
The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the board and its committees, and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors.
The committee also keeps under review the board committee structure and the composition of each committee and makes recommendations to the board of any changes considered necessary.
Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee he is not permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of his successor is being considered or during discussions regarding his performance.
The committee reviews annually the succession plans for the executive directors and the executive management board.
During 2005 the vacant roles of chief executive, Industrial and Special Products and Group human resources director were both filled by internal candidates.
The committee also considers the reappointment of non-executive directors upon expiry of their term of office and the proposals for re-election of directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years in accordance with the companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
During these deliberations consideration is given to the results of the annual board evaluation.
The evaluation process is explained in more detail above.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is contained in a separate circular and details the directors who will be standing for election and re-election at the meeting.
Corporate governance 69 During the year one new non-executive director and two executive directors were appointed to the board.
When considering the appointment of new directors the committee reviews the current balance of skills and experience on the board.
A detailed specification is drawn up to include any specific knowledge or expertise that is considered of future benefit to the board and having regard to the business throughout the Group and the overall business strategy.
For executive vacancies internal candidates identified through the succession planning process are always considered in the first instance.
External search consultants are used to identify suitable candidates for non-executive positions or where alternative candidates are required for executive vacancies.
The consultant draws up a short list of candidates for consideration.
The committee then reviews and evaluates the short listed candidates before submitting its recommendation to the board as a whole.
Remuneration committee Members:Andrew Bonfield, Guy Dawson chairman, Rebecca McDonald, Matthew Miau, Sir Christopher ODonnell and Anne Quinn.
The remuneration committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis.
The remuneration committee meets six times a year.
The committee recommends to the board the policy on executive directors remuneration and the specific remuneration, benefits and terms of employment of each executive director.
The committees full report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 72 to 83.
Pensions committee Members: Guy Dawson chairman, Alan Ferguson, Tony Isaac, Rob Margetts.
Secretary: Stephen Pegg, Corporate pensions director.
The pensions committee meets twice a year and oversees the review of governance and control procedures applying to all employee retirement benefit plans, and reviews and makes recommendations on the investment policies and strategies applied to the Groups retirement benefit plans.
Executive management board The members of the executive management board are detailed on pages 10 and 11 and are considered as the officers of the company.
The executive management board is chaired by Tony Isaac.
All members held office throughout the year ended 30 September 2005 except that John Walsh resigned on 31 March 2005, Rob Lourey resigned on 30 April 2005 and Ren Mdori resigned on 31 May 2005.
James Cullens, Group human resources director, became a member of the executive management board on 30 April 2005 and Alan Ferguson, Group finance director, did so on 15 September 2005.
There have been no further changes up to the date of this report.
The executive management board meets regularly having primary authority for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations and policy implementation in line with the Groups strategy agreed by the board.
Investment committee Members: John Bevan, Alan Ferguson, Tony Isaac chairman, Kent Masters, Mark Nichols, Raj Rajagopal, and representatives from the finance function.
The investment committee meets regularly and reviews and approves Group commitments up to 25 million as delegated by the board.
Group commitments over 25 million are presented to the board for approval on recommendation from the committee.
Accountability and audit Statements of the respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors for these accounts are set out on pages 84 and 85.
Risk management and internal controls This statement of compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in respect of risk management and internal controls is in line with the arrangements set out by the Financial Reporting Council.
The board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
The schedule of matters reserved to the board ensures that the directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Risk management in BOC The BOC risk management programme assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business risk on a continuous basis.
The objective of risk management within BOC is to improve performance and decision making through identification, assessment and mitigation of key risks.
A dedicated central team of risk management specialists is responsible for delivering the risk management programme.
During 2005 approximately 86 risk workshops or reviews have been conducted covering a broad range of matters.
These include risks in strategy, risks in meeting business unit targets, risks in acquisitions or ventures and risks in major projects.
The risk management process operates on a global basis and covers the Groups key risks, lines of business, business units and corporate functions.
The output from each risk assessment is a set of prioritised risks with associated action plans.
Line management retains responsibility for completion of action plans.
Progress of action plans is monitored and reported.
A report on the risk management process is provided to the board twice a year.
These reports include reviews of key strategic risks to the Group as well as the individual lines of business and identifies the status of action plans against key risks.
70 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance Internal controls in BOC The directors have delegated to executive management the establishment and implementation of a system of internal controls appropriate to the various business environments in which it operates.
The Group operates under a system of controls that has been developed and refined over time to meet its current and future needs and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
These controls, which are communicated through various operating and procedural manuals and processes, include but are not limited to: The definition of the organisational structure and the appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management: Procedures for the review and authorisation of capital investments through the investment committee including post-acquisition reviews and appraisals: Strategic planning and the related annual planning process including the ongoing review by the board of the Groups strategies: The establishment of individual business unit annual performance targets and the quarterly business review of actual performance: The monthly financial reporting and review of financial results and other operating statistics such as the health and safety reports as well as the Groups published quarterly financial statements, which are based on a standardised reporting process: Accounting and financial reporting policies to ensure the consistency, integrity and accuracy of the Groups accounting records: Specific treasury policies and objectives and the ongoing reporting and review of all significant transactions and financing operations.
The internal control system is monitored and supported by an internal audit function that operates on a global basis and reports its results on the Groups operations to management and the audit committee.
The work of the internal auditors is focused on the areas of greatest risk to the Group determined on the basis of a risk management approach to audit.
There have been regular reviews by the audit committee of the board of the effectiveness of the Groups overall internal control processes throughout the year.
During 2005 the Group has developed and progressed its plan to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 which is a requirement for BOC with effect from 2006.
The internal audit function has played an important role in developing and implementing the plan to identify, document and test key controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 and will have a significant role in supporting managements evaluation of design effectiveness and operational effectiveness of these controls.
The directors therefore believe that the Groups system of risk management and internal controls provides reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of anything in the Groups system of internal controls during the period covered by this report and accounts which would render them ineffective.
There were no changes in the Groups internal controls over financial reporting that occurred in the year ended 30 September 2005 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Disclosure controls and procedures The chief executive and Group finance director, based on the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this annual report and accounts, have concluded that, as of such date, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Going concern The directors report on going concern is included in the financial review on page 63.
Communication with shareholders The board considers communication with shareholders, whether institutional, private or employee shareholders, to be extremely important.
A variety of communication mechanisms are used by the company.
Financial results are published quarterly, and half year and annual reviews are sent to all shareholders.
Copies of the full annual report are available by election or on request.
com provides financial and other business information about The BOC Group.
It contains an archive of past announcements and annual reports, share price information and a calendar of events as well as BOCs social responsibility policies, including the companys Code of Conduct.
There are also facilities in place to enable shareholders to receive communications from the company in electronic form rather than by mail and for shareholders to provide their proxy votes for the Annual General Meeting by electronic means.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question directors about the companys activities and prospects.
The chairmen of each of the principal board committees are normally present.
Members of the board meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
During the year responses are given to letters received from shareholders on a variety of subjects.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate item of business proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
All resolutions will be voted on by taking a poll, with an indicative result advised to the meeting and the verified result announced as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The proxy voting result will also be available on the companys website www.
Corporate governance 71 There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and fund managers which is led by the chief executive and Group finance director although the chairman, senior independent director and other board members are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are expected to do so if shareholders request.
The company also maintains contact, when appropriate, through the chairman of the remuneration committee and other executive management to discuss overall remuneration policies and plans.
Summaries of these discussions and meetings are provided to the board.
In addition the board receives copies of most analysts and brokers reports issued on the company.
Periodically the board receives presentations from external advisers on investor perceptions.
These summaries, reports and presentations enable the directors to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the company.
The directors are supported by the companys investor relations department, which is in regular contact with institutional shareholders, analysts and brokers.
All contact with major shareholders, analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by strict company guidelines to ensure that any price sensitive information that has not been made generally available to all shareholders and potential investors is protected.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on Friday 27 January 2006 commencing at 11.00 am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, which includes explanations of all resolutions, is contained in a separate circular which is being sent to all shareholders more than 20 working days before the meeting.
Resolutions will seek approval to the following: a receipt of the report and accounts: b the dividend policy: c reappointment of Kent Masters, Rebecca McDonald, Alan Ferguson, John Bevan, Matthew Miau and Sir Christopher ODonnell as directors: d reappointment of  LLP as auditors and granting authority to the directors to fix their remuneration: e approval of the directors remuneration report: f renewal of the authority for the directors to allot shares: g renewal of the authority for the directors to allot shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings: h granting of general authority for the company to purchase its own shares up to a maximum of ten per cent of issued share capital.
No purchases were made following last years authority: and i amendments to the Articles of Association.
The report of the directors has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Nick Deeming Company Secretary 28 November 2005
