Corporate Governance The Directors are committed to integrity and accountability in the a 4.5% interest in the share capital of the Company during the stewardship of the Groups affairs.
For the Company, corporate year.
The other Directors do not consider this holding to be governance covers not only the Principles of Good Governance and significant in the context of the size profile of other shareholdings Code of Best Practice contained within the Combined Code but also in the Company.
wider business practices, such as social and environmental The Board has appointed Jack Keenan as Senior Independent performance and animal protection.
He is available to meet shareholders on request and The Directors consider that the Company has been compliant ensures that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not throughout the period under review with the provisions of Section 1 resolved through existing channels.
of the revised Combined Code issued in July 2003.
During the year, There is a clear division of responsibility between the Executive the Company was promoted to the FTSE 350 but adopted the Chairman Adrian Bellamy, and the Chief Executive Officer Peter position of being fully compliant with all provisions of the Code Saunders.
If acting in an executive capacity, the Chairman agrees throughout the year.
his specific area or functions with the Chief Executive Officer and The following statement describes how the principles set out interacts with management through him.
in the Combined Code applicable during the period under review Responsibility for management of the Groups operations is have been applied.
delegated to members of the Executive Committee, which consists Board of Directors of the Chief Executive Officer together with the four regional heads The Board of Directors throughout the year consisted of Adrian and the seven central departmental heads.
The Executive Committee Bellamy Executive Chairman, Peter Saunders Chief Executive responsibilities include: Officer and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board and its Developing the business in accordance with its Mission Committees met regularly throughout the year.
The number Statement: of meetings and attendance of the Directors are shown in the Day to day management of the business: table below: Formulation and implementation of the Groups strategy and agreed plans: Nominations Audit Remuneration Reporting to the Board: Board Committee Committee Committee Making recommendations to the Board: Communicating to employees on a regular basis.
Meetings held in year under review 6 1 5 2 Members of the Executive Committee attend the Board on a Adrian Bellamy 6 1 5 2 rotational basis to update the Board on their area of responsibility.
Peter Saunders 6 1 5 2 The Board receives monthly management accounts and Jack Keenan 6 1 5 2 information for Board meetings is circulated in advance.
New Irene Miller 6 1 5 2 Directors will have a formal induction and familiarisation programme Dame Anita Roddick 6 1 on joining the Company, based on their need to have a general Gordon Roddick 6 1 understanding of how the Group operates worldwide and of the Ronald fide Waal 5 1 3 1 specific information that is produced to the Board.
Once appointed, Directors remain familiar with the business through the phasing of By invitation the matters considered by the Board, regular meetings with management and visits to shops and regions.
The Board has started In addition, the Board meets on an ad-hoc basis to implement a policy of holding some meetings in markets around the world, routine and administrative matters that have been approved in facilitating interaction with the regional management teams and principle at the scheduled Board meetings.
overall knowledge of the international business.
Directors also The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it, which benefit from the diversity of experience of the Board members.
includes approving: They can attend training courses if required.
The Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy: The Board completed and discussed a self-evaluation Allocation of financial resources: questionnaire in November 2004 which covered the Board, Acquisitions, disposals and major investments: its committees and its relationship with management.
Annual operating and capital budgets: All Directors submit themselves for re-election at least once Annual accounts and announcement of annual and interim every three years.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer retire at results: this years AGM and the Nominations Committee has recommended Dividends: their re-appointment as Directors.
The rotation for the Non-Executive Executive appointments: Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report.
Treasury policy and risk management.
Adrian Bellamy, who is not a full time Executive of the Company, retired from the Boards of Gucci Group NV and Robert Dame Anita and Gordon Roddick are not considered to be Mondavi Corporation during the year.
Details of his other independent Non-Executive Directors due to their past executive directorships and those held by other Directors are set out service with the Company and their continuing significant in their biographical details on page 23. shareholdings.
All the other Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent including Ronald fide Waal, even though he held 26 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Relations with Shareholders for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the The Company is committed to maintaining good communications appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys with shareholders, ensuring that all shareholders are kept informed external auditors, and for overseeing the relationship between of significant company developments and price sensitive information the Group and the external auditors, including non-audit services in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Finance of the Companys internal audit function including its terms of and IT hold regular meetings with the Companys principal reference, scope and resources, in the context of the Companys institutional shareholders and analysts and feedback is provided overall risk management system.
The full terms of reference of to the Board on a regular basis.
A full presentation is made to the the Committee can be obtained from the Company.
investment community in conjunction with the announcement of half In the year under review, the Audit Committee discharged its year and full year results.
All Directors attend the Annual General responsibilities by: Meeting and are available to answer questions from shareholders Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim present.
The details of proxy votes will be communicated to results statement prior to Board approval, together with the shareholders present at the Annual General Meeting in June 2005 external auditors detailed reports on these: and subsequently on the Companys web site.
Reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Board Committees controls, policies and procedures adopted during the year.
There are three Board committees that operate within defined terms Detail on the accounting policies adopted can be found of reference: the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration on pages 42 & 43 : Committee and the Audit Committee.
Reviewing the Groups Christmas trading statement prior to release: The Nominations Committee Reviewing the Groups progress towards the implementation The Nominations Committee is chaired by Adrian Bellamy with of International Financial Reporting Standards: Irene Miller, Jack Keenan and Ronald fide Waal also serving on the Reviewing and approving the external audit fee and Committee.
Additional members of the Board and external advisors monitoring the non-audit fees payable to the external can attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
auditors: The responsibilities of the Committee include: Reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board: the audit of the Group accounts including key risks, plus Identifying and nominating for approval to the Board approving their terms of engagement: candidates to fill vacancies on the Board: Reviewing and approving the terms of reference for Internal Reviewing the re-election of Directors as they retire by Audit, its programme of work and internal audit reports as rotation under the Companys articles of association.
issued: Reviewing the risks associated with major business The Audit Committee programmes including acquisitions and IT investment: During the year the Audit Committee comprised Irene Miller Receiving regular updates on the key risk areas identified Chair, Jack Keenan and Ronald fide Waal.
All the members of the through the Risk Management Working Party and assessing Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
the internal control framework: The Committee has at least one member possessing what the Reviewing and updating the Committees own terms of Smith Report describes as recent and relevant experience.
Irene reference and performance as part of a wider Board exercise: Miller was Chief Finance Officer of Barnes & Noble Inc until 1997.
Receiving notification of any whistle blowing incidents and The Directors biographical details on page 23 demonstrate that all ensuring there is adequate follow up to such matters.
the members of the Committee bring a wide range of experience from positions held at the highest level both in the The Audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure UK and internationally.
that the independence of the Group audit is not compromised.
Both the external and internal auditors are present at the These include: meetings, and it is common for the Committee to meet the external Seeking confirmation from the auditors that, in their auditors without management present.
Private meetings with the professional opinion, they are independent of the Company: internal auditor are scheduled as required.
The Chairman, Chief Reviewing the economic importance of the Company to the Executive Officer and Director of Finance & IT regularly attend the external auditors and assessing whether that importance Audit Committee at the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman, impairs, or appears to impair, their judgement or and other members of management attend the Audit Committee independence: meetings as necessary.
The Committee has also approved a policy governing the provision In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The policy dictates is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements that the external auditors shall only provide those services that do of the Company, including its annual and interim reports, preliminary not conflict with the external auditors independence or objectivity.
results announcements and any other formal announcements That is to say, the Committee should not agree to the auditor relating to its financial performance.
The Committee is responsible The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27 Corporate Governance continued providing a service if, having regard to the ethical and other The Board has reviewed on an annual and ongoing basis guidance available and all relationships between the Company the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the process and the audit firm, the result is that: for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the the external auditor audits its own firms work: business, together with the policies and procedures by which risks the external auditor makes management decisions are managed.
Managers are responsible for the identification and for the Company: evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of the a mutuality of interest is created: or business, together with the design and operation of suitable the external auditor is put in the role of advocate controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and details for the Company.
of significant risks and how they are being managed are reported to the Risk Committee.
A list of prohibited services has been generated which is contained The Risk Committee reports to the Board and meets regularly in the policy.
In addition, a number of pre-approval limits have been to review the major risks to the Group and the system of internal set for non-audit services that are not deemed to be prohibited, but control in place to manage those risks.
During the year under must be controlled.
Any activities that may be perceived to be in review, the Risk Committee comprised the Executive Chairman conflict with the role of the external auditor or are likely to exceed Chair, the Director of Finance and IT and the Internal Audit the pre-approval limits must be submitted to the Committee for prior Manager.
The minutes of the Risk Committee are circulated to all approval.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during Audit Committee members.
the year for audit and non-audit services are set out in the Notes to the Accounts on page 45.
The Risk Committee monitored the following major risks during the year: The Remuneration Committee Business interruption and disaster recovery planning The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Jack Keenan.
Irene Brand leadership and presentation Miller and Ronald fide Waal also serve on the Committee.
Additional Corporate reputation members of the Board, members of the Executive Committee and Treasury and asset management external advisors attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
Product liability The responsibilities of the Committee include: Supply chain performance Reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance IT systems development of the Remuneration Policy: Supplier dependencies Determining the total remuneration and employment terms Franchisee performance of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and members of the Currency management executive management team: UK trading performance Approving the design, targets and payments under any Recruitment and retention annual incentive schemes: These risks are scored against the potential cost and probability Reviewing the design of share incentive plans and approving of the risks occurring, with the actions being taken to mitigate the allocation of awards under such plans: these risks also reported and monitored.
Determining the policy for pension arrangements and The Risk Committee reviews and directs the work of Internal reviewing the pension scheme annually: Audit, which provides regular audit reports to the Board in Ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any accordance with a risk-based audit plan.
payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company.
Additional internal control systems are in place to ensure Further information on the responsibilities and activities of the alignment between the Companys operational performance and its Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages ethical policies.
The Directors accept responsibility for ensuring that 29 to 33. appropriate management systems and processes are maintained for monitoring the Companys commitment to continuous improvement Internal Control and Risk Management in its ethical performance.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such Going Concern a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can provide only the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going misstatement or loss.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
In accordance with the guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group: that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
28 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005
