Internal Control Non-Executive Directors are themselves invited to attend analysts The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and presentations at the time of the regular results announcements.
Such a system is designed to manage As stated on page 13 the Chairman and Senior Independent rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, Non-Executive Director are available to discuss any issues not resolved and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
On specic issues, as with material misstatement or loss.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the introduction in 2003 of the share option scheme, in 2005 with the the 2003 Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, proposed stock bonus plan and in 2006 with the proposed introduction evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks of long term incentive and share matching schemes, the Company will arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
seek the views of leading investors.
The Board continuously and regularly reviews the process, which has CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY been in place from the start of 2000 to the date of approval of this report As part of the general programme of risk management and review and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors of internal controls, Bodycote regularly keeps under review the risks on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Boards associated with its corporate and social engagement.
Bodycote has monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and already developed appropriate policies and procedures for each Strategic compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on Business Unit.
In areas where Bodycote does not perceive either reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider shareholder value and or business risk, the aim is to develop and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate implement appropriate policies over time.
The areas of signicance a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists are safety, health and the environment and the Groups employees.
the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
During 2005, SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT in compliance with provision C. 2.1, the Board also performed a specic The Group has a positive approach to safety, health and environmental assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
The assessment matters and is committed to the achievement of the highest practicable considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the standards of safety and health at work for all employees and to the period covered by the report including the work of Internal Audit.
minimisation of adverse effects on the environment.
Appropriate safety In addition, the Managing Director of each of the Groups Strategic and health policies and procedures are in force at both Strategic Business Units reported on the existing internal control procedure and Business Units, each of which has a dedicated safety and health team any failings or weaknesses.
They identied and made an assessment tasked to reduce accidents at work.
of the risks affecting the businesses they control, in each case with the assistance of input from those reporting directly to them.
Such risks During 2003 the Group began collating further data in order to better were measured against their own stated objectives, and actions for any benchmark performance in subsequent years and from 1 January improvements were scheduled against a timetable for later verication 2004 the Group commenced reporting its performance internally in by Internal Audit.
No significant previously unidentified risks were terms of lost time, frequency and severity of accidents in a uniform uncovered as part of this process.
As a result each Strategic Business Unit is now able to benchmark its safety and health performance and formulate criteria for Prospects improvements.
The Groups target of a 10% reduction in lost time The Boards view on the Groups position and prospects is given by the accident frequency compared to 2004 was met in 2005, although Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director in their respective severity rates only met targeted reductions in Central Europe, Nordic statements on pages 2 to 12 of this report.
Following a review of the and the UK territories.
A further 10% minimum reduction has been Groups results for 2005 and its budgets for 2006, the Directors consider targeted for 2006.
Bonus payments to Directors and senior executives that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to finance are in part dependent on achievement of these targets.
their activities for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Where appropriate the Group will develop and implement environmental management systems consistent with international Investor relations standards.
In 2001 the Group began an assessment of the steps The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and required to improve its environmental performance and started seeking meet institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this environmental accreditation.
In 2004 all Thermal Processing facilities has enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding were mandated to obtain ISO14001 or equivalent accreditation by the of the Groups strategy.
The business of the Annual General Meeting end of 2006 for all appropriate sites.
By the end of 2005 one site in now comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of North America, 41 sites Europe and a further sixteen sites in the UK shareholders attending.
In addition, since 1998, internet users have had been accredited to ISO14001.
The Groups Testing sites, which been able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price have a low environmental prole, operate to the ISO17025 standard via the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the which incorporates environmental management requirements.
website can also enrol free for a service that automatically noties them of results announcements and recent significant Group events.
significant enhancements for the benefit of shareholders took place during 2004.
Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public relations consultants provide Directors with opinion surveys from analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
