Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 27 corporate governance The requirements of corporate governance are set out in the Financial Services Authority FSA period.
Exceptionally, non-executive directors may be invited to serve for a third and final threeListing Rules together with the related Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best year term.
Non-executive directors fees are determined by the board in the absence of the nonPractice the Combined Code, adopted by the FSA.
Directors are assisted in complying with the internal control requirements of the Combined Details of executive directors service contracts are given on page 35.
All executive directors Code by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales publication Internal normally retire on reaching the age of 60.
Details of the Chairmans appointment are given on Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
Copies of service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the AGM.
The board considers that good corporate governance is an essential element of achieving its overall objectives.
It has reviewed the groups corporate governance policies and practices, and All directors appointed by the board must stand for reappointment at the first AGM following has determined that during the period 1st April 2004 to 31st March 2005 the company complied their appointment, and thereafter at least every three years.
In addition, at least one third of with the provisions of the Combined Code.
the continuing members of the board must retire, and if willing, stand for reappointment at each AGM.
Directors retiring and those standing for reappointment at the 2005 AGM are The board identified on page 45.
On 31st March 2005, the board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and five The non-executive directors bring a variety of experience and expertise to the board and are all non-executive directors.
There were no changes to the composition of the board during the considered to be independent.
Sir Nigel Rudd was considered by the board to be independent year, although Mr Dodd resigned on 18th May 2005.
During the year the board reviewed the at the date of his appointment as Chairman.
The board considers that an independent director composition of the board, and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience its members is one who is independent in character and judgment, and where there are no relationships or brought, and concluded that the board was of the appropriate size and balance for the company.
circumstances which could affect the directors judgment.
Relationships or circumstances Mr G N Dawson has been appointed the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies and other which could affect judgment include having been previously an employee of the company, details of members of the board of directors are shown on page 21 and in the AGM notice.
having had close ties with any of the companys advisors, directors or senior managers, having The Chairman meets with individual directors privately at least once a year to review their had a material relationship with the company, receiving additional remuneration from the contribution to the board and personal development plans including training needs.
Further, the company apart from directors fees, participating in the companys performance related pay Chairman meets with the non-executive directors as a group four times a year in the absence of or pension schemes, holding cross directorships, having significant links with other directors, the executive directors.
As part of the board evaluation programme, the non-executive directors, representing a significant shareholder, or having served on the board for more than nine years.
led by the Senior Independent Director, meet annually without the Chairman being present to The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and chief executive is in writing and has review the performance of the Chairman, having considered the views of the executive been agreed by the board.
The Chairmans responsibilities broadly follow the guidance given in directors.
During the year the board undertook a review of the board as a whole, its committees the Combined Code, while Richard Baker, the chief executive, is responsible for leading the and its members, assisted by independent consultants.
The review included confidential executive management of the company in the achievement of the companys objectives, and interviews with each director, when they had an opportunity to express their views on their for the proper and successful management of the business.
overall impression of the board and its committees and their organisation, composition, involvement in the business and effectiveness: the roles and contributions of board members: The board has a programme to enable it to discharge its responsibility for providing communications with shareholders: stakeholder issues and succession planning.
The results entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, were consolidated and reported to the Chairman and, in so far as they related to the board as and to assess and manage risk.
The board has eight regular meetings in the year, including two a whole, to the board and, in so far as they related to the Chairman, to the Senior Independent strategy meetings, and other meetings are convened as required.
In this year, two additional Director.
The board considered the outcome of the programme in its evaluation of the skills, meetings took place.
knowledge and experience of the board, and the nominations committee applies the output The table overleaf shows the attendance of directors at board meetings and at meetings of the in formulating its development plans for the board.
audit, nominations, remuneration and social responsibility committees during the year.
All Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years from the annual general directors have attended meetings of the board and of committees of the board of which they meeting following their joining the board, and subject to performance and reappointment where are members unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments particularly in the case appropriate, there is an expectation of renewal of that appointment for a further three-year of additional meetings called at short notice.
A 28 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 corporate governance Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Social Responsibilities Committee Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum Attended Maximum possible possible possible possible possible attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance R A Baker 10 10 P Bateman 9 10 44 J Bennink 8 10 14113 534 G N Dawson 10 104411 H Dodd 10 10 T CParker 9 1044115534 HPloix 8 10 441155 44 Dr M P Read 9 10 1 1 5 5 Sir Nigel Rudd 10 10 1 1 A schedule of matters reserved for decision by the board is maintained, including the approval In the furtherance of their duties, the directors have full access to the services of the company of the annual report and accounts, the long-term objectives of the company, the strategy to secretary and may take independent professional advice, at cost to the company, subject to achieve those objectives, the annual operating plan including the allocation of human and a limit of 25,000 and to prior notification to the chairman of the audit committee.
In addition, financial resources and against which business performance is assessed, significant investment each of the committees of the board is entitled to take independent professional advice as and disposal decisions, the structure of the group, payment of dividends, changes in appropriate.
The company maintains appropriate directors and officers insurance in respect accounting policies and practices, remuneration of and changes to the auditors, treasury of legal action against its directors.
policies, and the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
The board delegates The company provides corporate governance training to those directors for whom it is their first to management the management of the business.
appointment to a listed company board, and provides a tailored induction programme for all For all board meetings an agenda is established.
For regular meetings this generally comprises: directors on appointment.
The induction programme includes details of board and company Reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the HR and operations director, policies and procedures, information and briefings by members of management on the including a health and safety report: Reports on the performance of the businesses: Approval of major companys business and operations, and on laws and regulations particularly applicable to items of expenditure, and other significant policy issues.
The board is also notified of any them, and visits to stores, factories, warehouses and other operations.
The board is regularly permissions given to directors and senior managers to deal in the securities of the company updated on developments relating to the business of the company, corporate governance and under the companys dealing code and receives reports from the committees of the board, to other matters of relevance, and non-executive directors attend the companys business enable it to satisfy itself as to the matters within their remit.
Appropriate papers are provided to conferences and visit the companys operations.
the directors in advance of each board meeting.
In addition the board considers at least annually The boards policy concerning the appointment of executive directors to be non-executive the strategic plans of the group and of individual businesses, and from time to time directors directors of other companies is that the additional experience and knowledge such an receive presentations from management concerning key areas of the groups operations.
appointment brings benefits the company, and accordingly, executive directors are permitted to Full year and interim results are reviewed by the board audit committee and approved by the accept one such appointment where no conflict of interest arises, and to retain the fees received.
Other price sensitive announcements may be published under the All non-executive directors disclosed to the board prior to appointment their significant other authority of a director.
commitments, and they are required to notify and have notified any changes to or additional The composition and terms of reference of board committees, and a summary of the current commitments from time to time.
Sir Nigel Rudd is non-executive chairman of Pilkington and terms of reference and details of membership of major board committees during the year are of Pendragon, and during the year was appointed non-executive deputy chairman of Barclays.
The board is satisfied that Sir Nigel meets his obligations to the company.
Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 29 The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which During the year under review, the committee recommended that directors standing for contact through the normal channels of Chairman, chief executive or chief financial officer have reappointment should do so.
Since the year end the committee has set in hand a process for failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
recruiting a successor to Mr Dodd who announced in March his intention to resign and has also commenced the process of defining the desired capabilities, background and experience The company secretary is an employee of the company and is secretary of all board committees, of a further non-executive director given the current balance of skills knowledge and experience and fulfils the responsibilities required of him by the Combined Code.
Board committees Board audit committee There are four principal board committees, all of which operate within written terms of reference.
Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: Summaries of the terms of reference and details of the membership of committees are set out below.
Copies of the terms of reference are available from the company secretary and on the G N Dawson chairman, appointed September 2003 companys website.
Only members of each committee are entitled to attend the meetings of J Bennink appointed September 2001 committees, although each committee may invite other directors, managers and advisors to T C Parker appointed January 2004 attend and frequently do so.
Membership of board committees is regularly reviewed: given the H Ploix appointed September 2000 size of the board and the need to have a quorum available, if necessary, at short notice, there is Mr Guy Dawson, the current chairman of the committee, was until 2002 chairman of European inevitably an overlap in directors membership of committees, and in particular the board believes Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch and is currently a partner in Tricorn Partners, an independent it appropriate for all the non-executive directors to be given the opportunity to participate in the corporate advisory business, and accordingly has recent and relevant financial experience.
work of the nominations committee.
However, the chairman of the remuneration committee does not serve on the audit committee, and vice versa, and the board is satisfied that no one director The board audit committee met four times during the year.
The agenda for each meeting is exercises a disproportionate influence.
No director has served on any committee for six years pre-planned to ensure that each aspect of the committees responsibilities is discharged as or more.
Attendance at meetings of committees is set out on page 28. part of an annual cycle.
The main responsibilities of the board audit committee are to: Board nominations committee Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: Monitor the integrity and clarity of the financial information and of the major financial statements of the company, and to review any significant financial reporting issues and Sir Nigel Rudd chairman T C Parker judgements those statements contain.
J Bennink H Ploix Approve the annual external audit plan and to review with the external auditors the nature, G N Dawson Dr M P Read scope and results of their audit, and any control issues raised by them.
The board nominations committee meets as dictated by circumstances and met once during Make recommendations as to the appointment, terms of engagement and remuneration of the year.
the external auditors and review any question of their resignation or removal, and to review the effectiveness of the external auditors and their independence.
The main responsibilities of the board nominations committee are to: Review the consistency of and any changes to accounting policies, the application of Review regularly the structure, size and composition of the board and make appropriate accounting standards, and the methods used to account for significant or recommendations to the board concerning that.
Give full consideration to succession planning for directors.
Approve the internal audit plan, monitor and review the effectiveness and freedom from Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the board.
management interference of the companys internal audit function, and to approve the Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any particular appointment and removal of the head of that function.
board appointment including that of the Chairman.
Review the companys internal controls and systems and practices for the identification and Identify and nominate for the approval by the board candidates to fill board management of risk.
vacancies as and when they arise.
Monitor compliance with the companys policies to prevent illegal and questionable corporate conduct and to review arrangements for whistleblowing.
The committee also makes recommendations to the board concerning the standing for reappointment of directors.
A 30 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 corporate governance The external auditors attend meetings of the committee, other than when their appointment or The board remuneration committee met five times during the year.
performance is being reviewed, and the head of the internal audit function, the chief financial The main responsibilities of the committee are to: officer and members of the finance function attend as appropriate.
The committee meets with the auditors in the absence of management at least twice a year.
Determine and review from time to time the framework, broad policy and specific terms for the remuneration and terms and conditions of employment of the Chairman of the board The external auditors are appointed annually at the annual general meeting.
The board audit and of executive directors, including the design of targets and payments made under any committee considers the reappointment of the auditors and reports its findings to the board.
board audit committee periodically considers the performance, cost and independence of the Agree any compensation for loss of office of any executive director.
external auditors, including a comparison of audit fees with those of other retail and FTSE100 Recommend and monitor the level and structure of the remuneration of senior managers.
companies and reviews the level of service provided by the audit team throughout the group.
During the year under review the committee reviewed its advisors and appointed Kepler In March 2004 the committee adopted a new policy on the engagement of the auditors to Associates as advisors to the committee.
Assisted by Kepler, the committee reviewed executive supply non-audit services to ensure that auditor independence is not compromised.
The policy directors and executive remuneration, and, after consultation with shareholders, approved identifies three categories of non-audit work.
Firstly, work such as systems implementation, full proposed new long term incentive plans, which are described in the Directors Remuneration outsourcing and preparation of accounting entries and financial information that the auditors are Report, and will be considered at the companys AGM.
The committee also during the year not to perform as to do so would represent a real threat to independence.
Secondly, some audit reviewed salaries and allowances, made grants and made awards where appropriate under the related and advisory services where work can only be undertaken by the auditors with the Executive Share Option Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan.
The committee is currently approval of the audit committee.
This category is sub-divided into those projects that require reviewing executive directors pension arrangements.
approval regardless of the fee level, for example, staff secondments and advice on design and implementation of policies and controls, and those projects where approval is required if fees A report on the remuneration of directors appears on pages 32 to 41. exceed a set limit, such as advice on tax matters, advice on preparation of financial information, due diligence and related advice, preparation of completion accounts and training support.
Board social responsibilities committee Lastly, projects where the work is clearly audit related and where the auditors are best placed Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: to do it, such as regulatory work and acting as reporting accountants, do not of themselves H Ploix chair J Bennink require approval, but given that the level of non-audit fees may themselves constitute a threat, P Bateman T C Parker audit committee approval is required if total fees in this category exceed 0.5m.
The board social responsibilities committee met four times during the year.
The main The committee monitors the overall level of non audit fees, is satisfied that its policy falls within responsibility of the board social responsibilities committee is to keep under review and advise the requirements of the Auditing Practice Board, and ensures compliance with that policy.
the board on the companys policies and practices in the areas of social responsibility, including The auditors annually confirm their policies on ensuring auditor independence and provide the those relating to health and safety, the environment, diversity and equal opportunities, race committee with a report on their own internal quality control procedures.
relations, employment of the disabled, charitable giving and ethical matters, and the companys In addition to discharging the responsibilities described above and its work in connection values and standards.
with the audit and auditors, the committee during the year reviewed the plans to implement During the year, the committee reviewed those matters within its remit, and approved a revised International Financial Reporting Standards, and the judgements proposed where alternatives code of conduct for ethical trading and reviewed and monitored performance against agreed are available, and in light of the APB Ethical standards issued on 17th December 2004 with targets in the area of social responsibility.
which auditors must comply reviewed the auditor terms and conditions and concluded that they are more than adequate.
Investor relations Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
In addition to the annual and half Board remuneration committee year results presentations and the annual general meeting, a programme of meetings between Directors who served on the committee during the year are as follows: institutional shareholders and executive directors or the Chairman is held throughout the year.
Dr M P Read chairman T C Parker A summary of the views expressed at these meetings is reported to the board.
At each board J Bennink H Ploix meeting a report is given on shareholders and analysts views, issues if any and expectations, Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 31 and periodically external consultants attend a meeting of the board and present a report on Each member of the executive and, where appropriate, other members of management shareholders concerns and expectations.
In addition, each director is provided with copies of annually complete tailored questionnaires relating to compliance with the groups policies and reports prepared by analysts and brokers and with press cuttings which are of particular value procedures concerning internal controls within their area of responsibility.
Those questionnaires to the directors not resident in the UK.
Non-executive directors are given an opportunity to are audited by internal audit and the results presented firstly to the internal audit committee, attend meetings with shareholders, and each non-executive director is prepared to do so.
chaired by the chief executive, and are then reviewed by the board audit committee.
All members of the board usually attend the annual general meeting.
A business presentation The internal audit function works throughout the group to further develop, improve and embed is given at the meeting, followed by a question and answer session.
The notice of the meeting, risk management processes and tools in the business operations.
It also provides assurance to together with any related papers, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the the board that risk management practices address the key risks faced by the group including meeting, or for those who have elected for electronic communication, notice is given to such risks that could arise from social, environmental and ethical matters.
Its work includes an shareholders of the availability of documents on the companys website.
Shareholders are given assessment of the risks and controls throughout the group and its findings are reported to the opportunity to vote on each separate issue.
Postal proxy votes are counted and the proxy senior management responsible for the area concerned.
Internal audit also reports regularly votes lodged are announced after the vote on show of hands on each item.
Summary proxy to the board audit committee.
figures are made available in writing at the end of the meeting and are also published on the The board audit committee assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, reviewing companys website.
the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in place Internal control and are serving to identify and manage risk.
The external auditors and the head of the internal The directors have overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for audit function attend all meetings of the audit committee, save in the case of the external reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than auditor those parts of any meeting when the committee reviews the performance of the auditor.
eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
Such a system can, however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The groups system of internal control and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed regularly by the board, the board audit committee, the internal audit function, and management, and the Members of the board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and operations of board believes that the company has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of individual businesses within the group.
This includes the review and approval of business approval of the Annual Report and Accounts an effective embedded system of internal control strategies and plans and the setting of key business performance targets.
The executive and has complied with the Turnbull guidance.
management responsible for each business are accountable for the conduct and performance of their business within the agreed strategies.
Social, environmental and ethical matters Business plans and budgets provide a framework from which performance commitments have The company has for many years recognised the benefits that accrue from responsible been agreed between the chief executive and each business.
These commitments incorporate employment, environmental and community policies which are also described elsewhere in this financial and strategic targets against which business performance is monitored.
Identifying and managing risks to the companys reputation has been described above monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling annual and half year forecasts, and has a high priority.
The evaluation of the companys performance in social, environmental, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and community and ethical matters is ongoing.
Going concern The group has clear requirements for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic Having considered group cash flow forecasts and strategic plans, the directors are satisfied that investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the board.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure statements.
being determined by the individual businesses.
Executive management are responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
These risks are assessed on a regular basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources.
