Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of All of the Directors are considered by the Board to be corporate governance.
The Board has accordingly put independent of management and free from any business in place a framework for corporate governance, which or other relationship which could materially interfere with it believes is appropriate for an investment trust the exercise of their independent judgement.
company and which will enable the Company to comply with the relevant provisions of the Combined Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 14 and 15 Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting of this report.
The Directors believe that the Board has a Council in July 2003, and, where appropriate, the balance of skills, experience, ages and length of services provisions of the AITC Code of Corporate Governance which enables it to provide effective strategic leadership the AITC Code.
and proper governance of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is currently Eileen Mackay.
The Board is accountable to the Company's shareholders for good governance and this statement The Board meets usually at least nine times each year.
describes how the Company applies the principles There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is and supporting principles identified in the Combined designed to address, in a systematic way, overall Code and, where appropriate, the principles identified strategy, review of investment policy, investment in the AITC Code.
performance, marketing achievements, budgets, dividend policy, gearing, asset allocation, peer group The Board believes that the Company has complied information, industry issues, share price performance, throughout the accounting period with the provisions share price discount, the shareholder profile of the set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as Company and communication with shareholders.
detailed below and, where appropriate, the Company Additionally Board Committees and sub groups meet has also followed the recommendations set out in the to pursue matters referred from the Board as a whole AITC Code.
and the Chairman sees the other Directors regularly without representatives of the Manager being present.
DIRECTORS The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly The Board has overall responsibility for the Company's to discharge its duties effectively and the table below affairs.
It delegates, through an investment gives the attendance record for the formal Board and management agreement and through specific Committee meetings held in the year.
instructions, the day to day management of the Company to the Manager, Fidelity Investments The Nomination Committee consists of all the International.
The Company has no executives or Directors and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
There is a formal schedule of matters Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other reserved for the Board which includes, inter alia, times as may be required.
The Committee has written decisions on gearing, Board appointments, terms of reference and is responsible, inter alia, for appointment of the Company Secretary, strategy, identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Company structure and risk management strategy.
Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies taking into account the need to maintain a balanced Board.
Care The Board presently consists of seven non-executive is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time Directors, one of whom is Chairman.
The provision of to devote to the job.
External consultants are also used the Combined Code which relates to the combination to identify potential candidates and this process of the roles of the chairman and chief executive does resulted in the appointment of Sir Nigel Wicks as a not apply as the Company has no executive directors.
The Committee also Board Nomination Audit Management Meetings Committee Committee Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings 1 Scott Dobbie 9 9 2 2 4 4 1 1 Eileen Mackay 9 9 2 2 4 4 1 1 Richard Barfield 9 9 2 2 4 4 1 1 Ian Inglis 9 9 2 2 4 4 1 1 Nicola Ralston 9 9 2 2 4 4 1 1 William Samuel 9 9 2 2 4 4 1 1 2 Roy Summers 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 The Chairman is not a member of the audit committee but was in attendance at the audit committee meetings.
2 Retired as a Director on 21 July 2004.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 19 Corporate Governance Statement considers whether Directors should be recommended to demonstrate commitment to the role of non-executive for re-election by shareholders.
Director including his membership of Board committees.
The Board endorses his candidature and commends his The Nomination Committee's written terms of reference re-election to shareholders.
In accordance with the are available at the Company's registered office and on Companys articles of association, Sir Nigel Wicks who was the Company's website at www.
appointed as a Director of the Company on 24 May 2005 holds office only until the Annual General Meeting.
He will Letters of appointment, which specify the terms of offer himself for election by shareholders at that meeting.
appointment, are issued to new Directors on appointment The Board endorses his candidature and commends his and include details of the time commitment required and appointment to shareholders.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are available for There is a procedure for Directors to take independent inspection at the registered office of the Company.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company's expense.
This is in addition to the access which every The Company does not have a formal and tailored Director has to the advice and services of the induction programme for new Directors.
When a new Company Secretary, Fidelity Investments International, Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that provided with all relevant information regarding the Board procedures are followed and that applicable Company and their duties and responsibilities as a rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, a new Director will also spend some time with representatives of the Manager The level of Directors' fees is determined by the whereby he or she will become familiar with the various whole Board, and therefore a separate remuneration processes which the Manager considers necessary for committee has not been appointed.
Since all the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Directors are non-executive, the Company is not Company.
The Company's policy is to encourage required to comply with the principles of the Directors to keep up to date and attend training Combined Code in respect of executive directors' courses on matters which are directly relevant to their remuneration.
Directors' fees are disclosed fully in involvement with the Company: a number of such each annual report see the Directors' Remuneration courses were attended in the year under review.
Thus Report on pages 24 and 25. training is tailored to the needs of individual Directors and, in addition, the Company organises an annual To meet the requirements of the Combined Code, an offsite meeting at which the Directors consider a variety evaluation of the Board, its Committees, and of of topics which are relevant to the Company and assists individual members was conducted during the third the Directors in updating their skills and knowledge.
quarter of the financial year.
This took the form of self The Directors also receive regular briefings from, inter and peer group assessment by questionnaire followed alios, the AITC, the Auditors and the Company by individual discussions between the Chairman and Secretary regarding any proposed developments or individual Directors.
The Chairman's performance was changes in law or regulations that could affect the assessed by a meeting, chaired by the Senior Company and or the Directors.
Independent Director, of all the other Directors.
A Director appointed during the year is required to COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS retire and seek election by shareholders at the next The Directors place great importance on communication Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that with the Company's shareholders.
The Manager carries one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year out a programme of regular dialogue and individual and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting meetings with institutional shareholders.
During the year and also that every Director submit himself or herself the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director also for re-election at least every three years.
Subject to met with representatives of those major shareholders these requirements for re-election, Directors are who had accepted an invitation from the Chairman to appointed to the Board for a specified period, initially meet with them.
Written reports of all such meetings are for three years and subsequent extensions are, in each circulated to all Directors.
case, at the discretion of the Board.
At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders have Eileen Mackay retires by rotation at the forthcoming the opportunity to put questions to the Board and a Annual General Meeting and will not be seeking representation from the Manager covers the investment election.
Richard Barfield also retires by rotation and being performance and strategy during the financial year and eligible will offer himself for re election at the Annual the outlook for the year ahead.
The Board hopes that General Meeting.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that as many shareholders as possible will be able to attend his performance has been effective and that he continues the meeting.
Page 20 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Statement All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is representatives from the Manager at least once a year called, the Chairman indicates the level of proxies lodged to review these and other appropriate matters.
for each resolution and the balance for and against the Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the external Auditors for the forthcoming year.
The notice of meeting on pages 45 and 46 sets out the business of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the resolution is proposed on each substantially separate external Auditors in connection with the financial issue including the annual report and accounts.
statements appear on pages 24 and 26.
In the year to 31 March 2005 the Audit Committee The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related discharged its responsibilities by inter alia: papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Reviewing the Company's draft annual and interim financial statements prior to Board approval and The Chairman of the Board, the Nomination Committee reviewing the external Auditors' reports thereon and the Management Engagement Committee, Scott Dobbie, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Ian Reviewing the appropriateness of the Company's Inglis, will be available to answer questions at the accounting policies Annual General Meeting.
Reviewing the potential impact of International The Chairman and Senior Independent Director can Financial Reporting Standards always be contacted either through the Company Secretary or care of the Company's registered office at Reviewing and approving the audit fee and 3 Glenfinlas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6AQ.
reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Company's external Auditors ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT An Audit Committee has been established which is Reviewing the external Auditors' terms of chaired by Ian Inglis, consisting of all the Directors with engagement the exception of Scott Dobbie.
The qualifications of the members of the Audit Committee are included in their Reviewing the external Auditor's plan for the audit biographies on pages 14 and 15.
The Board has taken of the Company's financial statements note of the suggestion that at least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant Reviewing the external Auditors' quality control financial experience and is satisfied that the Audit procedures Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the The Committee meets at least four times a year and its external audit process and the external Auditors' authority and duties are clearly defined in its written independence and objectivity terms of reference which are available at the Company's registered office and on the Company's Considering the scope of work undertaken by the website.
These duties include: discussing with the Manager's internal audit department external Auditors the nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the external Auditors' quality control Reviewing a semi-annual report on internal controls procedures: considering the scope of work undertaken and reporting to the Board as described below by the Manager's internal audit department: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Recommending the re-appointment of the external Company: reviewing the interim and annual financial Auditors statements of the Company prior to their submission to the Board: and reviewing the effectiveness of the The Board is responsible for the Company's system of internal control systems including financial, operational internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such and compliance controls and risk management.
They a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can the effectiveness of the audit process and the external only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Auditors' independence and objectivity with particular against material misstatement or loss.
regard to the provision of non-audit services.
The provision of non-audit services is also subject to prior The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process Board approval.
The Audit Committee of the Board for identifying, evaluating and managing the meets the external Auditors in the absence of Company's significant business and operational risks, The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 21 Corporate Governance Statement that it has been in place for the year ended 31 March insolvency, liquidation other than for the purpose of 2005 and up to the date of approval of the annual an amalgamation or reconstruction approved by the report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by Board of Fidelity.
In addition, the Company may the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance on terminate the Management Agreement without internal control.
compensation in the two months following a change of control of Fidelity.
The Manager is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of controls and MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company The Management Engagement Committee which was and to manage its affairs properly.
The system extends established in January 2004 with written terms of to operational and compliance controls and risk reference meets at least once a year.
Clear lines of accountability have been consists of all the Directors and is chaired by Scott established between the Board and the Manager and Dobbie.
In conducting its annual review of the regular reports on controls and compliance issues are investment management and secretarial provided to the Audit Committee.
In carrying out its arrangements, the Committee considers inter alia review, the Audit Committee has had regard to the investment performance, marketing performance, the activities of the Manager, the Manager's compliance performance of the Companys Secretariat, the and risk function and the external Auditors.
The Audit Finance and Control environment, Compliance and Committee's review also includes consideration of Audit and the terms of the investment management FRAG 21 and similar reports issued by the Manager agreement.
Following the most recent review, the and other service providers.
Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion that the continued appointment of The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit Fidelity Investments International as investment function.
The Board has decided that the systems and manager and secretary, on the terms agreed in the procedures employed by the Manager, including its Management Agreement, is in the interests of the internal audit function and the work carried out by the shareholders and the Company.
Company's external Auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, RESPONSIBILITY AS AN which safeguards shareholders' investment and the INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER Company's assets, is maintained.
An internal audit The Board has adopted the Manager's Principles of function, specific to the Company, is therefore Ownership in relation to the Company's investments.
The Audit Committee meets These principles include the pursuit of an active with the Manager's Head of Internal Audit on an investment policy through portfolio management annual basis without other representatives from the decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings Manager being present.
The Chairman of the Audit and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the Committee has direct access to the Manager's Head of management of investee companies.
In its Principles of Internal Audit and vice versa.
Ownership the Manager expressly declares that it supports the Statement of Principles drawn up by the INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the An investment management agreement the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
"""Management Agreement"" dated 17 and 19 July 2002 was made between the Company and Fidelity The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the Investments International ""Fidelity"", under which Company in accordance with the Manager's existing Fidelity has agreed to provide investment guidelines and policies."
management, administrative and secretarial services to the Company for a fee of an amount equal to 0.26 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT per cent per annum plus VAT of the Value of Funds The Manager believes that high standards of under Management as defined in the Management corporate social responsibility CSR make good Agreement, which excludes investments in other business sense and have the potential to protect and funds managed by the Manager payable monthly and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the calculated as of the last day of the preceding calendar investment process takes social, environmental and month to which it relates.
ethical issues into account when, in the Manager's view, these have a material impact on either The Management Agreement will continue unless and investment risk or return.
until terminated by either party giving to the other not less than three months' notice.
The Management The Manager recognises and supports the view that Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a social, environmental and ethical best practice should result of a material breach of the agreement or on the be encouraged as long as the potential for financial Page 22 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Statement return is not reduced.
It favours companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
The Manager does not screen out companies from its investment universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or ethical performance.
Instead, it adopts a positive engagement approach whereby it discusses these issues with the management of the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients.
The information gathered during these meetings is used both to inform the Manager's investment decisions and also to encourage company management to improve procedures and attitudes.
The Manager believes that this is the most effective way to improve the attitude of business towards CSR and the Board endorses this approach.
GOING CONCERN The Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Scott Dobbie Chairman 24 May 2005 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005 Page 23
