Accounts Corporate Governance The Directors confirm that during the year under review the Company has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2003.
The Board of Directors The Board comprised of six Directors as at 30 September 2005, all of whom were non-executive.
The Board has nominated Mr JP Williams as the Senior Independent Director.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management agreements with Electra Partners, together with the monitoring of the performance thereunder.
The management agreements set out the matters over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
The Board meetings consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All of the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting and some Directors additionally held informal meetings with shareholders during the year.
No meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held during the year.
Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Nomination Audit Board Committee Committee Number of Meetings 14 1 3 Sir Brian Williamson 14 1 RA Armstrong 812 Professor Sir George Bain 7 1 3 Lord King of Bridgwater 7 1 3 MEDA Walton 12 1 3 JP Williams 10 1 3 Sir Brian Williamson is not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors usually receive board papers several days in advance of board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has the balance of skills and experience which enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 6.
Independence of the Board Sir Brian Williamson, Mr JP Williams, Lord King of Bridgwater and Mr RA Armstrong have served on the Board for more than nine years.
Lord King had, during part of the year ended 30 September 2005, a family relationship with a senior executive of Electra Partners.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the Code and has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind, and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by length of service or family relationships.
The Directors including the Chairman who have been in office for more than nine years will submit themselves to annual re-election.
30 Electra Investment Trust PLC Accounts Corporate Governance Performance Appraisal The Board carried out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and that of its Committees and its and their performance during the year.
This was implemented by means of questionnaires circulated to the Directors, the results of which were then summarised and reviewed by the Board.
Issues covered included board composition, meeting arrangements and communication.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and of its Committees.
The Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees was satisfactory.
The Chairman carried out a formal appraisal of each of the Directors during the year and the Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, similarly appraised the Chairman.
Relevant matters considered included the attendance and participation at Board and Committee meetings, commitment to Board activities and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the relevant Director.
As a result of this process, the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of each of the Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that each of them continues to show commitment to his role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
Hanson Green reviewed the appraisal and verified that the exercise was undertaken as described by reviewing the paperwork and by speaking to several members of the Board.
Hanson Green has confirmed to the Board that in their opinion the performance appraisal exercise was carried out fairly and objectively and focused on issues that were appropriate to the business.
The process was felt to add value to the Board and was constructive throughout.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Codes provisions and or the Companys Articles, each of Sir Brian Williamson, Mr RA Armstrong, Lord King of Bridgwater and Mr JP Williams will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2006 and each offers himself for re-election.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Any appointment or removal of the Company Secretary would be a matter for consideration by the entire Board.
The Audit Committee The Board has an Audit Committee established in compliance with the Code.
It comprises all the Directors, other than the Chairman of the Board with Mr RA Armstrong as Chairman of the Committee.
The Board has taken note of the suggestion that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference which are available on request.
The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, the internal financial controls and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of their engagement: developing and implementing the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: reviewing the arrangements in place within Electra Partners whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
The Committee has reviewed the provision of non-audit services and believes them to be cost effective and not an impediment to the external auditors objectivity and independence.
The non-audit services include the provision of taxation advice.
It has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors must be approved by the Audit Committee and that any special projects must be approved in advance.
Electra Investment Trust PLC 31 Accounts Corporate Governance Internal Audit Following the review carried out by the Audit Committee as to whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function, the Board has considered and continues to believe that the internal control systems in place within Electra Partners and the work carried out by the Companys external auditors provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr JP Williams and comprises all the Directors of the Company, other than the Chairman of the Board who takes no part in determining his own remuneration.
It was not necessary to hold any meeting of the Committee during the course of this year.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on request.
Full details of its role are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis to consider suitable candidates for appointment as Director.
It comprises all the Directors with Sir Brian Williamson as Chairman.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies to maintain a balanced Board.
During the year the Nomination Committee engaged the services of an external search Consultant in relation to the appointment of additional Directors.
Letters of appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, are issued to new Directors.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman and senior executives of Electra Partners.
Following appointment, Directors continue to receive other relevant training and advice as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with the Companys shareholders.
The Company, in conjunction with Electra Partners, maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and City analysts, with a number of presentations and visits being undertaken throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders are welcome to attend and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and hear a presentation from Electra Partners covering the investment performance during the last financial year.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the annual report and accounts.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the Chairman indicates the level of proxies lodged for each resolution and the balance for and against the resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either through the Company Secretary or at the Companys registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB.
Internal Control The Code requires the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Code extended the earlier reporting requirements and now includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the year end.
It is reviewed at regular intervals by the Board and accords with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
32 Electra Investment Trust PLC Accounts Corporate Governance The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2005.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy agreement by the Board of the Companys investment strategy and authorisation and monitoring of all large investments.
Management Agreements the Board regularly monitors the performance of Electra Partners to ensure that the Companys assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the guidelines determined by the Board.
Investment Performance the investment transactions and performance of the Companys assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the guidelines determined by the Board.
Management Systems Electra Partners system of internal control includes clear lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
Electra Partners compliance department monitors compliance with the FSA rules.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key controls of Electra Partners as follows: The Board reviews the terms of the management agreements and receives regular reports from Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews the certificates provided by Electra Partners on a six monthly basis verifying compliance with documented controls.
Custodians are required to produce on a regular basis a report available for review by the Directors on their internal controls and their operations including a report by an independent firm of accountants.
Voting Policy The Companys investee companies are principally unlisted companies in which the Company is a significant shareholder and the Company is usually a party to all issues requiring shareholder approval.
The Company has given discretionary voting power to Electra Partners to vote on its behalf.
Electra Partners voting policy as agent for the Company has adopted and applies the Statement of Principles drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders Committee when it considers these in its reasonable judgement to best serve the financial interests of the Companys shareholders.
Electra Partners policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
