Report on the activities of the Audit Committee continued External auditors During the year under review the Audit Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
This included information about the policies and processes for maintaining independence, monitoring compliance with relevant requirements and ethical guidance and consideration of all relationships between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
A policy is in place which requires the Audit Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and pension scheme audit work.
If a request for approval were made, the Audit Committee would have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditors were a suitable supplier, whether there was likely to be any threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit and the related fee level both separately and relative to the audit fee.
For details of fees paid to the external auditors, see note 5 on page 44.
Performance evaluation During 2005, the Committee commenced an internal performance evaluation, using a questionnaire process designed to produce an objective assessment of the Committees performance and audit effectiveness.
It was concluded that the Committee and the audit process were effective, and that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference and achieved its remit.
Briefings and training are provided where appropriate to ensure that the Committee remains informed of all material developments in best practice and regulation concerning its remit.
Mark Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 March 2006 Report on the activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and succession planning arrangements, and leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
Composition and meetings During 2005, the Nomination Committee comprised Sir Nigel Mobbs as Chairman until his resignation due to ill health on 9 September 2005, Mr Tim MelvilleRoss, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mr Malcolm Harris.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and all members, then current, attended each meeting.
Mr Tim Melville-Ross took over as Chairman following his appointment as Chairman of the Board on 14 November 2005.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee and appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the Board.
Terms of reference The Nomination Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform its duties.
If required, the Committee can obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice on any matters within its terms of reference.
None was obtained during the year.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Overview of activities During 2005 the Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board concerning directors to retire by rotation and seek reappointment at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The requirement to appoint a further non-executive director was identified and the recruitment process was conducted and concluded on merit and against objective criteria using the services of an appropriate external search consultant.
The appointment of three new directors to the Board of Bovis Homes Limited was approved and general succession planning arrangements were kept under review during 2005.
Tim Melville-Ross Chairman of the Nomination Committee 10 March 2006 Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 27
