Corporate Governance Statement The Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Code Board balance on Corporate Governance the Code in July 2003.
The Board consists of Directors who between them, have good knowledge and wide experience of business The Board has put in place a framework for corporate in Europe and of investment trusts.
Biographical details governance, which it believes is appropriate for an of all Directors including their directorships are given on investment trust company and which will enable the pages 14 and 15 of this report.
The Board ensures that Company to comply with the relevant provisions of the it conducts its business at all times with only the Code and the provisions of the Code of Corporate interests of the shareholders in mind and quite Governance published by the Association of independently of any other associations.
It meets at Investment Trust Companies the AITC Code which least four times a year and endeavours to provide has established the framework of best practice for leadership in terms of the direction of the Company.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions contained within the Code and the Appointments to the Board AITC Code throughout the year ended 31 December The Company complies with the requirements of the 2005, except where disclosed below, and this AITC Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
statement describes how the relevant principles of Whilst the independent Directors take the lead in the governance are applied to the Company.
appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new Director will be discussed and approved by all of the THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Board.
As a consequence, there is no Nomination The Board Committee.
External consultants may be used to The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the identify potential candidates.
Upon appointment, each Companys affairs.
All matters which are not delegated Director receives training on the investment operations to the Companys Manager under the Management and administration functions of the Company, together Agreement are reserved for the Boards decision.
with a summary of their duties and responsibilities.
The Matters reserved for the Board include, inter alia, Directors also receive regular briefings from, amongst decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, others, the AITC, the Auditors and the Company gearing, financial reporting, risk management, Secretary regarding any proposed developments or investment performance, share price discount, changes in law or regulations that affect the Company corporate governance, the appointment of the and or the Directors.
Company Secretary and Board appointments.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors The Board currently consists of five non-executive are available for inspection at the registered office of Directors, four of whom are independent of the the Company.
Mr Simon Fraser is an employee of the Manager and is therefore not independent.
In Performance evaluation considering the independence of the Chairman, who has A process for the evaluation of the Board, its served as a Director for more than nine years, the Board Committees and its Directors has been put in place has taken note of the AITC Code and concluded that and this takes the form of written questionnaires and, if lengthy service on a board does not of itself compromise appropriate, interviews.
The performance of the independence, indeed his experience and knowledge is Chairman is evaluated by the other Directors on an of positive benefit to the Board.
Nonetheless in the light annual basis.
The Company Secretary and Investment of the provisions of the Code Robert Walther will be Manager also participated in part of these processes to seeking annual re-election.
The independent Directors provide all-round feedback to the Board.
The results of form the membership of the Audit Committee and the these evaluations were issued to and discussed by the Management Engagement Committee.
The process is considered to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly and performance of the Board.
to discharge its duties effectively and the table opposite gives the attendance record for the meetings Re-election held during the year.
As required by company law, all newly appointed Directors stand for election by the shareholders at the Senior independent director next Annual General Meeting following their As the Board consists entirely of non-executive appointment.
The Directors retire by rotation and offer Directors, the Board has concluded that there is no themselves for re-election by shareholders every three need to appoint a senior independent Director.
Directors who have reached the age of 70 are in accordance with the AITC Code.
Directors who have served on the Board for more than nine years are Page 20 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Statement subject to annual re-election.
The representative of the Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Manager is subject to annual re-election.
A procedure external audit process and the external Auditors has been put in place whereby formal letters of independence and objectivity: appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, Considering the scope of work undertaken by the are issued to new Directors on appointment and to Managers internal audit department: existing Directors as they retire and are subject to reReviewing a semi-annual report on risk and internal election at the Annual General Meeting.
controls and reporting to the Board: and Considering and reconfirming that it does not need As mentioned on page 18 Messrs Walther, Fraser and an internal audit function given that the Company Simpson will retire and will be seeking re-election at delegates its day to day operations to third parties.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Management Engagement Committee consists of The Audit Committee consists of all the independent all of the independent Directors and is chaired by Mr Directors, and is chaired by Mr David Simpson.
The Committee is charged with Committee considers that collectively its members have reviewing and monitoring the performance of the sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to Manager in respect of its contract and the fees it is discharge their responsibilities fully.
This Committee meets once a year and reports authority and duties are clearly defined in its written to the Board of Directors, making recommendations terms of reference which are available for inspection at where appropriate.
the Companys registered office and are included on the Companys website.
These include responsibility for The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by reviewing the interim report and annual report and the Management Engagement Committee: it relates to accounts, reviewing the scope and results of the audit the investment management function, on which a and the effectiveness and cost of the audit process and percentage of the funds under management is paid, reviewing the Companys internal financial controls.
and to the administrative function.
They also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors independence and The criteria which are taken into consideration in objectivity with particular regard to the provision of reviewing the performance of the Manager are set non-audit services.
The Audit Committee of the Board out below: meets the Auditors at least once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
In the year to Quality of team the skills and particularly the 31 December 2005 the Audit Committee discharged its experience of the team involved in managing all responsibilities by inter alia: aspects of the Companys business: Commitment of the Manager to the investment Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim trust business generally and to the Company in financial statements prior to Board approval and particular: reviewing the external Auditors report on the Managing the Company in running and annual financial statements: controlling the administration, the accounting and Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys the secretaryship of the Company: accounting policies: Investment management portfolio management Reviewing and approving the audit fee and skills, experience and track record and other reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Companys investment related considerations including external Auditors: gearing, currencies, hedging, buybacks etc: Reviewing the external Auditors terms of Shareholders shareholder consciousness and engagement: relations, discount management and commitment Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit to the Companys goals: and of the Companys accounts: Management Agreement consideration of fees, Reviewing the external Auditors quality control notice periods and duties.
procedures: Board Audit Committee Management Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Robert Walther 4 5 2 2 1 1 David Simpson 5 5 2 2 1 1 Johan Bjrkman 5 5 2 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Simon Duckworth 5 5 2 2 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Page 21 Corporate Governance Statement The Committee met on 19 January 2006 and reviewed Internal control the performance of the Manager for the year to The Directors review the effectiveness of the Companys 31 December 2005.
The Committee noted the systems of internal control on an ongoing basis.
The Companys good performance record over the short, identification, control and evaluation of risks identified, medium and longer term and the commitment, quality covering financial, operational and compliance matters and continuity of the team which was responsible for is formulated by a series of quarterly investment the Company.
The Committee concluded that it was in performance reports, a semi-annual internal controls the interests of shareholders that the appointment of report and quarterly compliance reports as provided by the Manager should continue.
Details of the new the Manager.
The systems of internal controls are Management Agreement appear on pages 16 and 17. designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Supply and agenda of information reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against The quarterly Board meeting papers are the key source material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has of regular information for the Board, the contents of contractually delegated to external agencies, including which are determined by the Board and contain the Manager, the management of the investment sufficient information on the financial condition of the portfolio, the custodial services which include the Company.
Key representatives of the Manager attend safeguarding of the assets, the registration services each Board meeting, enabling the Board to probe and the day-to-day accounting and company secretarial further on matters of concern or seek clarification on requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into certain issues.
The Directors have access to the advice after full and proper consideration by the Board of the and services of the Company Secretary through its quality and cost of services offered including the appointed representative, who is responsible to the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed the affairs of the Company.
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Directors also have the ability to take The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a independent professional advice, if necessary, at the semi-annual risk and control assessment.
The Company maintains Directors risks have been analysed and recorded in a risk and and Officers liability insurance.
internal controls report which is reviewed regularly.
Whilst the Company, in common with most investment Directors remuneration trusts, has no internal audit department, the The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the Board and therefore a separate Remuneration Managers compliance and internal audit functions.
Committee has not been appointed.
Since all Directors The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the are non-executive, the Company is not required to report on the effectiveness of the internal controls comply with the principles of the Code in respect of maintained on behalf of the Company and an annual executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are compliance report from the Managers Global disclosed fully in the Annual Report see the Directors Oversight Director.
The Board also receives each year Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 25. from the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Managers reporting ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT accountants on the control procedures in operation Financial reporting around the investment management and Set out on page 19 is a statement by the Directors of administration processes.
By means of the procedures their responsibilities in respect of the annual report and set out above and in accordance with The Turnbull financial statements.
The Auditors have set out their Internal Control Guidance, the Directors have reporting responsibilities within the Independent established an ongoing process for identifying, Auditors Report on page 26. evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the effectiveness of Going concern the internal controls systems throughout the year.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Voting policy accounts since the assets of the Company consist The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles accordingly, the Company has adequate financial include the pursuit of an active investment policy resources to continue in operational existence for the through portfolio management decisions, voting on foreseeable future.
resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of investee Page 22 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Statement companies.
In its Principles of Ownership, the Manager expressly declares that it supports the Statement of Principles drawn up in 2002 by the Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the Company in accordance with the Managers existing guidelines and policies.
Shareholders The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and communicate its views to shareholders.
The Board is concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It believes the Companys institutional shareholders do have proper access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on page 45.
All shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is always a presentation of the past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet the Management and the Board.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, are reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 42 to 43 sets out the business of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board Robert Walther 6 March 2006 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005 Page 23
