CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in its CHAIRMAN management of the affairs of the group and when accounting to shareholders.
The group chairman is a member of the audit, remuneration, nomination & management development, and safety, ethics & environment committees.
The Board continues to This section of the annual report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of Best believe that he should be engaged in all aspects of the group, particularly Board committees, Practice in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting due to the breadth of knowledge and relevant experience he brings to these committees, Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The groups policy guidelines on corporate and the fact that encompassed in his role is the leadership of the Board.
The commonly direction and control ensure that the company applies all of the principles of good practised alternative of sitting in attendance at committee meetings is not considered to governance contained in the Combined Code in the organisational structure it has adopted be an adequate alternative.
It is, however, the Boards policy that the first two committees to conduct its business, the means by which directors are remunerated, the manner of will normally also have at least three independent non-executive directors as members, contact with shareholders, and the procedures adhered to in its financial reporting, internal with the nomination & management development committee having at least two control and assurance process.
The following report explains in more detail how the independent non-executive directors.
The chairmen of all four committees will be noncompany applied the principles of the Combined Code and complied with its detailed executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that, in the unlikely event that the group chairman best practice governance provisions throughout the financial year.
is required to arbitrate on any differences between Board committees and management, he would do so totally objectively.
THE BOARD Effective management and good stewardship are led by the Board of directors, which Sir Ian Gibson is a non-executive director of GKN plc, Northern Rock plc and Chelys Ltd, and currently consists of thirteen directors, twelve of whom served throughout the financial a trustee of the Centre for Life.
The Board is satisfied that these are not such commitments year, with David Hamill having been appointed on 26 January 2005: Allan Gormly was on his time as to interfere with the performance of his duties as chairman of the company.
also a director and chairman up to 21 July 2004.
In addition to the current chairman there are six executive directors and six non-executive directors: this balance ensures that no INDUCTION, TRAINING AND INFORMATION individual director or small group of directors dominates the decision making process.
Following appointment to the Board, all new directors receive a comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their individual requirements.
The induction programme, It is BPBs policy that, excluding the group chairman, at least half the Board should which is approved by the group chairman and arranged by the company secretary, includes normally be independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers each of its current visits to the groups businesses and meetings with senior management as appropriate.
non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its This facilitates their understanding of the group, the key drivers of business performance, determination of independence the Board has concluded that there are no relationships the role of the Board and its committees, the companys corporate governance practices or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, each non-executive and procedures, and provides them with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, directors judgement.
responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public listed company.
When a non-executive director is appointed to one of the Boards committees, additional induction training is given Seven regular Board meetings were held during the financial year, one of which was held which is relevant to that appointment.
over two days and two more were held in conjunction with visits to company locations which took a total of five days.
Attendance of the current directors at Board and committee To assist directors in the performance of their duties, there are procedures to provide them meetings was almost 99% during the year: of the 29 meetings held Andrew Dougal and with appropriate and timely information, including information between meetings about Evert Henkes were absent from one meeting each.
developments in the groups business and financial performance, so that they can maintain full and effective control over strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS, AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR issues.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the group secretary, the The non-executive directors provide a strong independent element and a solid foundation appointment and removal of whom is a matter for the whole Board, and, in appropriate for good corporate governance.
Although all directors are equally accountable under the circumstances, may obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
law for the proper stewardship of the companys affairs, the non-executive directors fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability.
They have a particular responsibility to examine Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged.
critically the strategies proposed by the executive directors, scrutinise the performance For example, over the last 12 months, the Board and audit committee, have received of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and play a leading role in the specific briefings by internal management and the external auditors on the introduction functioning of the main Board committees.
Between them, the current non-executive of International Financial Reporting Standards and their likely impact on future reporting directors bring experience, expertise and independent judgement from a variety of business by BPB.
To ensure that the Board as a whole remains fully informed on the views of shareholders, From 21 July 2004 until the conclusion of the AGM in 2006, Franz Leibenfrost will be the the Board receives regular reports on shareholder sentiment from the chairman, chief senior independent director.
To ensure every independent non-executive director is equally executive and finance director.
Although not part of their induction programme, all nonwell informed, this role will be rotated every two years.
The senior independent director executive directors have a standing invitation to attend shareholder meetings and analyst will, along with the other directors, be available to discuss matters of concern with presentations, and shareholders may meet informally with directors at the annual general shareholders which normal channels of communication with the group chairman, chief meeting.
In addition, the chairman and senior independent director will normally attend executive or finance director have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
the post-announcement presentations of the preliminary results to selected principal He or she also leads the annual evaluation by the non-executive directors of the group institutional investors and report the outcome to the Board.
Furthermore, at least once chairmans performance.
a year, one or both of the companys brokers make a presentation on shareholder issues to the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
36 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The group executive committee, which met on eight occasions during the year, consists A full Board performance evaluation process was undertaken in late 2004, facilitated by of all the executive directors together with three senior group executives, and is chaired the Board Performance Unit of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, by the group chief executive.
Its principal tasks are to ensure the proper management of with fully documented results being presented to the January 2005 Board meeting.
the groups operations, to act as a forum for consultation and co-ordination, and to make The process was carefully structured but pragmatic, tailored to bring about a genuine recommendations to the Board.
debate of issues that matter and assist in identifying any potential for improvement in BPB processes.
It entailed initial and sign-off meetings with the group chairman and The audit committee increased the number of meetings it intends to hold each year from company secretary, individual interviews with each director and a composite detailed three to four.
This reflects the importance the Board attaches to the role of the committee report by ICSA assessing the quality of the Boards performance in a range of different and the amount of work it is now required to carry out.
Committee members are Gerry areas.
While being satisfied with its overall performance, the Board is developing action Acher chairman, Andrew Dougal and Franz Leibenfrost all of whom are considered plans in respect of certain processes identified for improvement, including for example by the Board to be independent non-executive directors together with Sir Ian Gibson the way in which potential Board candidates are identified to all existing directors at an group chairman.
At least one member of the committee has recent and relevant earlier stage in the appointment process.
During the year the chairman also held one formal meeting with the non-executive For the reasons set out on page 36, the Board has concluded that it remains appropriate directors without executive directors being present to discuss the functioning of the Board for the group chairman to continue as a member of the committee for the time being.
and its committees, and the contribution of the executive directors.
There was also one meeting of the non-executive directors without the group chairman being present At the end of each meeting the committee meets with the external auditors, without to evaluate his performance, led by the senior independent director.
In addition, the management present, to facilitate the discussion of any matter relating to its remit and chairman met the non-executive directors informally on two occasions without any any issues arising from the audit.
Arrangements have also been adopted to ensure that executive director attending.
the head of internal control, audit & risk has direct access to the committee chairman and is accountable to the committee.
The performance of the Board committees was also appraised by the group chairman, with input from the chief executive, the company secretary and the committee chairmen.
The committee receives at each meeting detailed reports from management and the Sir Ian Gibson, as group chairman, undertakes a documented rolling annual programme external auditors to facilitate the discharge of its duties.
It is responsible for recommending of evaluation of the performance of each individual non-executive director.
His one-to-one the appointment, re-appointment, and approving the terms of engagement, of the review during the year with Franz Leibenfrost to discuss his individual performance was companys auditors, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals, and particularly rigorous in view of the fact that he has served on the Board for more than if necessary considering the resignation or dismissal of the auditors.
It also reviews the six years.
Executive directors performance was appraised by the chief executive, with auditors performance and cost competitiveness, including the scope and effectiveness input from the group chairman, and discussed with the nomination & management of, and matters arising from, the annual audit.
The committee reviews and discusses development committee.
The performance of the chief executive was appraised by the intended publication of results and, whenever practicable, other financial statements, the group chairman in conjunction with discussion at both remuneration committee and the estimates and judgements applied by management in the preparation of those nomination & management development committee meetings.
statements, the efficacy and reliability of internal control, the effectiveness of the companys internal control function and its relationship with the external auditors, the effectiveness Following this years review the nomination & management development committee of management actions in controlling the intensity of key group risks identified by the and Board have confirmed that all directors standing for re-election at the forthcoming Board, and any changes to financial reporting requirements.
annual general meeting continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The committee also receives regular reports on developments in financial reporting practices and other relevant matters so as to keep abreast of current thinking on accounting policies While self-assessment remains the most appropriate mechanism for continuing evaluation and standards.
of individual performance, a mixture of self-assessment and full or top-up review by third parties is most likely to be BPBs way forward with Board and committee evaluations.
The full remit of the committee is available in the investor centre on BPBs website www.
com and on request from the secretarys department at the companys RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS registered office.
The remit and effectiveness of the committee is reviewed annually.
New directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter BPBs articles of The committee has reviewed the adequacy of the companys procedures for the receipt association require that all directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
and treatment of any concerns and suspicions that might be raised by employees in confidence or anonymously regarding possible legal, regulatory or other violations in BOARD AND COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES MEMBERSHIPS matters of financial reporting and other matters.
The Board as a whole determines group strategy, reviews trading performance, ensures adequate funding, examines major investments and monitors the performance of the In respect of 2004 05, the committee reviewed the execution of the agreed external executive.
Although it has a formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it for decision, audit plan, the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditors in their handling the Board has five principal committees to deal with specific aspects of the groups affairs.
of key accounting and audit judgements and the content of the external auditors halfIn addition, the group secretary has a specific responsibility to the group as a whole for yearly review and annual audit report.
As noted above, the committee also met four its sound governance and for the guidance of the Board in the responsible and effective times with the external auditors alone.
On the basis of these meetings, detailed execution of its tasks.
feedback and reports from senior group and operating management, and other information available to the committee, the committee is able to assess the ongoing effectiveness of the external audit process.
BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE To satisfy its responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external auditors objectivity The safety, ethics & environment committee, which met three times during the year, and independence, the committee reviewed the proposed key external audit staff in the consists of Lady Balfour of Burleigh chairman, Sir Ian Gibson from 21 July 2004, Gerry external auditors plan, the arrangements for the management of the audit relationship, Acher and David Hamill from 26 January 2005. and the external auditors arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest.
The committee has also determined a framework for governing the provision of Its principal tasks are to facilitate throughout the group the promotion by management of audit and non-audit services by the auditors and their associates, taking into consideration a culture of responsible corporate behaviour and for assessing the adequacy of management relevant professional and regulatory requirements and reports from the external auditors reporting of such behaviour in compliance with embedded procedures and policies.
It also on their policies and procedures regarding independence and quality control.
assists in promoting a culture of safe working practices and care and sensitivity towards the environment, and overviews the groups charitable donations policy.
The committees framework includes a policy identifying certain non-audit services which the auditors are prohibited from providing and a process through which audit and nonThe full remit of the committee is available in the investor centre on BPBs website audit services are approved.
Certain categories of non-audit service are approved by the www.
com and on request from the secretarys department at the companys committee on an annual basis and, in addition, the committee chairman or in his absence registered office.
a committee member may approve urgent engagements not covered by these categories, subsequently notifying the committee at its next meeting.
The non-audit services of the INTERNAL CONTROL external auditors will only be used where the company benefits in a cost-effective manner The Board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and risk and the auditors maintain the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
The management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system is framework is kept under review and may be amended from time to time as necessary.
designed to identify, evaluate and control the significant risks associated with the groups achievement of its business objectives with a view to safeguarding shareholders Subject to receipt of appropriate shareholder authority, the committee approves all fees investments and the groups assets.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any paid to the external auditors.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the companys particular needs the year for audit and non-audit services are set out in note 4 on page 53. and the risks to which it is exposed and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Accordingly, such a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against The remuneration committee met four times during the year.
The members of the material misstatement or loss.
committee are Evert Henkes chairman from 21 July 2004, Lady Balfour of Burleigh from 21 July 2004, and Andrew Dougal from 21 July 2004 all of whom are considered In accordance with the Combined Code Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the Board by the Board to be independent non-executive directors together with Sir Ian Gibson confirms that there is an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the group chairman, who was chairman of the committee until his appointment as group significant risks faced by the group and that it has been in place for the year ended chairman on 21 July 2004.
Details of the committees main functions, and its current 31 March 2005 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
remuneration policies for parent company directors and senior executives, are given in the remuneration committees report commencing on page 40.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
To identify and manage key risks, The nomination & management development committee consists of Franz Leibenfrost it has established a number of group-wide procedures, policies and standards, has set chairman, Evert Henkes from 21 July 2004 and David Hamill from 26 January 2005 up a framework for reporting and escalating matters of significance, has authorised the all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive directors audit committee to undertake reviews of the effectiveness of management actions in together with Sir Ian Gibson group chairman.
controlling the intensity of key group risks identified by the Board, has developed a system of regular reports from management setting out key performance and risk indicators and The committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment has reserved specific, key matters for its decision.
This process is designed to provide of new directors to the Board, generally engages external consultants to advise on assurance by way of cumulative assessment and is embedded in operational management prospective Board appointees.
The committee keeps under review the need for planned and governance processes.
and progressive refreshing of the Board, prepares a description of the specific experience and skill needed for an appointment, considers candidates put forward by external Key elements of the groups system of internal control which have operated throughout consultants, and recommends to the Board the appointments of all directors after having the year are: met short-listed candidates.
It also supervises and puts in place succession plans for the posts of group chairman and group chief executive and keeps under review the a clearly defined organisation structure with established responsibilities management development and succession plans for all senior management appointments within the group, including the identification of senior executives judged to have potential a simple and focused business strategy, thus restricting potential risk exposures for Board appointment.
com and on request from the secretarys department at group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies and the companys registered office.
procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour During the year, the committee recommended the appointment of one further noncontinuous review of operating performance executive director.
A detailed job description was agreed by the committee, having regard to the desired balance of skills and experience for the Board as a whole, before external monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly search consultants were engaged to prepare a shortlist of candidates.
Only after a rigorous results, annual budgets, and periodic forecasts interview process was a candidate recommended to the Board.
The committee met three times during the year for formal meetings in addition to the interview sessions referred approval by the Board of all major investments, with proposals being subject to to above, and participated in performance evaluation processes as outlined in the separate rigorous strategic and commercial examination, and with post-investment appraisals section above.
of all significant projects 38 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 a centrally co-ordinated internal audit programme which uses both internal SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS AND VOTING PATTERN and external resource to support the Board in its role of ensuring a sound The Board recognises the importance of good communication with shareholders.
control environment In addition to the interim and annual reports which are sent to all shareholders, there is a regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, who also from time to completion by business unit management of an annual internal control assessment time visit the groups operations.
There are also general stockbroker institutional analyst confirming compliance with company policies and procedures, detailing controls in presentations each half year, webcasts of the post-announcement presentations of the operation and listing any weaknesses interim and preliminary results to city analysts and principal institutional shareholders, trading update announcements with associated conference calls each March and an internal control, audit and risk committee for each group managing directors September, and there is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the businesses which normally meets at least annually chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the principal Board committees at the AGM.
After the AGM, shareholders can meet informally with the directors.
The company assurance activities covering the key business risks summarised and reported consults principal shareholders over significant changes in remuneration policy, discusses annually to the Board, the audit committee or, where appropriate, the safety, ethics its approach to corporate governance whenever requested to do so by them and & environment committee responds as necessary to letters from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
com, includes a section focusing specifically upon local businesses undertaking annual risk profiling exercises for identifying, monitoring investors, and contains an archive of all recent parent company press releases and and managing significant risks.
The results of the exercise are discussed at business annual reports.
review and internal control, audit and risk meetings Although the Board has previously noted a trend of rising voting participation levels at a group risk profiling workshop for reviewing all business risk profiles and for BPB annual general meetings, it was disappointing to note that the total number of shares identifying, monitoring and overseeing the management of corporate risks across voted by proxy as a proportion of the companys issued share capital decreased to 63% the group.
The results of this workshop are used to produce a key, group-wide risk at the 2004 annual general meeting, compared to the previous years 69%.
Details and control schedule for consideration by the Board of the proxy votes cast for use at that AGM are available in the investor centre on the companys website: those for the 2005 AGM will be available at the meeting and will The Board regards responsible corporate behaviour as an integral part of the overall be displayed on the companys website as soon as possible thereafter.
governance framework and believes that it should be fully integrated into management structures and systems.
Therefore the risk management policies, procedures and monitoring methods described above apply equally to the identification, evaluation and control of BPBs safety, ethical and environmental risks and opportunities.
This approach has enabled the company to comply with the disclosure guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers on socially responsible investment which require listed companies to report to shareholders and give assurance that the company is managing its risks in these matters.
All acquired businesses are brought within the groups system of internal control as soon as practicable and in any event within twelve months of acquisition.
The Board has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period since 1 April 2004 and is satisfied that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The assessment included consideration of the effectiveness of the Boards on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the group.
Further information on the companys system of internal controls is set out in the operational and financial review in the section analysing the risks and uncertainties faced by the group on page 19 and in the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 and 31.
GOING CONCERN After reviewing the groups financial resources and projected cash flows, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
