Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate During the year under review, a total of five full Board governance.
"The Board has considered the principles set out in meetings were held at which all the Directors attended other the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the than Messrs DFE Bierbaum and CAH Brsig who each Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the ""Code"" and the AITC attended three."
Code of Corporate Governance the AITC Code.
The Board The Board believes that it has at present a reasonable balance believes that during the period under review the Company has of skills, experience, age and length of service.
The Board complied with the provisions of the Code in so far as they relate to recognises the value of progressive refreshing of, and succession the Companys business and the special circumstances of an planning for, company boards and periodically reviews the investment trust company, and has adhered to the principles and composition of the Board.
The Board has considered the recommendations of the AITC Code.
The Company has not independence of each of the Directors and is satisfied that each of appointed a senior independent director as explained on page them is independent of the Manager and there are no other 20, does not have in place its own internal audit function for relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are reasons explained on page 22, nor does it have a separate likely to affect their judgement.
The Board acknowledges the remuneration committee for reasons set out on page 24. rationale of the Code under which any term beyond six years for a non-executive director should be subject to particularly rigorous The Board | The biographical details of the Directors, all of review, and also the rationale for annual re-election after nine whom are non-executive, can be found on page 9. years.
Nevertheless, the Board is of the view that length of service It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is does not compromise the independence or contribution of effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Strategic issues Directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and and all operational matters of a material nature are determined by experience can add significantly to the strength of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, of the Board has been adopted.
In order to enable them to including the Chairman, has therefore been imposed although the discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely Board has adopted the policy that directors should retire at 70 access to all relevant information.
Whilst Mr Bierbraum and Mr Schwartz have served Board also operates through a committee comprised of those as Directors of the Company for more than nine years, the Board directors resident in the UK which generally meets each month has assessed them as continuing to be independent of the that the Board does not, except August.
This committee, the Company on the grounds that they have always been, and London Committee, at which all directors are entitled to attend, is remain, independent in character and judgement.
In accordance charged with dealing with administrative matters, overseeing the with the Code, all directors who have served for more than 9 years management of the portfolio and implementing decisions of the are required to retire and stand for re-election annually.
At each meeting of the Board and the London Committee directors are required, in accordance with the Companys Articles the Directors review investment performance and asset allocation, of Association, to submit themselves for re-election at least every sector allocation and stock selection, and consider financial and three years.
Mr Schwartz, will retire at the forthcoming Annual other reports of a strategic nature.
The Directors also monitor General Meeting after reaching the age of 70 years.
Each Director compliance with the Company's objectives and consider the has signed a letter of appointment to formalise the terms of his policies on gearing and share buy-backs and the investment limits engagement as a non-executive Director.
within which the Manager is given discretion to act.
Key The London Committee of the Board operates as the representatives of the Manager attend Board Meetings.
Appointments of new directors are made meetings are also held on an ad hoc basis to consider particular on a formal basis with the final decision in any particular case issues reserved to the Board as and when they arise.
resting with the full Board.
The primary role of the Nominations Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 19 Corporate Governance continued Committee is to review and make recommendations to the Board The Board has established a procedure whereby Directors with regard to the Board structure, size and composition, the may take independent professional advice at the Company's balance of knowledge, skills and experience, and age profile, and expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their to consider succession planning.
It also assesses the criteria for responsibilities as directors.
No professional advice in this future Board appointments and the methods of recruitment, regard has been taken by the Directors during the year under selection, appointment and induction.
An induction process has review.
All Directors are entitled to undertake relevant training at been designed for new appointees to the Board.
This comprises a the Companys expense.
The Board has direct access to briefing on the workings and processes of the Company by the company secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, Chairman, the fund manager, the Company Secretary and other through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring appropriate employees of the Manager, and provision of a that Board and Committee procedures are followed, and that Company Handbook and other key documentation.
All applicable regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all appointments are subject to confirmation by shareholders and Board and other meetings are fully recorded through a process institutional shareholders will be given the opportunity to meet any that allows any concerns of Directors to be recorded in the newly appointed Director if they so wish.
The appointment or removal of the Company In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, its Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
During the year under committees and the individual Directors, the Board carried out a review, the Board has maintained appropriate insurance cover thorough appraisal process in September 2005 in respect of the in respect of legal action against the Directors.
This encompassed both the operation and The Board reviews the investment performance of the performance of the Board, the Audit Committee and the London Manager and the qualities of its company secretarial, accounting, Committee, and qualitative appraisals of the Directors, administrative and support services to the Company, and carries implemented by way of interviews with the Chairman, and in the out an annual review of the management contract with the case of the Chairman, an appraisal by the other independent Manager, including the level and structure of fees payable and the Directors.
The appraisal process is considered by the Board to be length of the notice period.
"constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and its committees and Audit & Management Engagement Committee | The Audit the contribution of individual Directors, as well as building on and & Management Engagement Committee the ""Audit improving collective strengths."
"The Board does not consider that Committee"", which is chaired by Mr Douglas McDougall, is the use of external consultants to conduct this evaluation is likely currently comprised of three Directors, each of whom is to provide any meaningful advantage over the process that has considered to be independent."
The Audit Committee meets at been adopted, but the option of doing so will be kept under least twice a year and operates within written terms of reference review.
In view of the composition of the Board, which is wholly that clearly set out its authority and duties.
These terms of comprised of persons who are independent of the Manager, the reference were reviewed and updated during the year.
Copies Board does not believe it is necessary to appoint a senior are available on request and can also be found on the F&C independent director and has not done so.
The Board is satisfied that, having It is not compulsory for Directors to hold shares in the regard to their background and skills, there is a range of recent Company.
Details of Directors holdings are set out in note 5 and relevant financial experience amongst the members of the to the accounts.
Two meetings were held during the year under review, attended by all members.
20 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 The primary role of the Audit Committee is to review the Committee also meets with the auditors without the Manager Company's accounting policies: to monitor the integrity and being present.
The Audit Committee, together with the contents of the financial statements: to review the Companys Manager, has reviewed the work carried out by internal financial controls and the internal control and risk  LLP for the audit of the annual management systems applicable to the Company: to review financial statements.
On the basis of this and the auditors annually the need for the Company to have its own internal experience in auditing the affairs of the Company, the Audit audit function: to make recommendations to the Board in Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the external audit relation to the re-appointment of the auditors and to approve and recommended the continuing appointment of the auditors their remuneration and terms of engagement: to monitor the to the Board.
The Audit Committee has taken into account the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of standing, experience and tenure of the audit partner, the nature the audit process: and to develop and implement policy on the and level of service provided and confirmation of the auditors engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services.
independence within the meaning of UK professional and Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee considers Board has concluded that there is no current need for the  LLP to be independent both of the Company to have its own internal audit function: all of the Company and the Manager in all respects.
Company's management functions are delegated to the The Audit Committee approves all non-audit work to be Manager, which has its own internal Audit, Risk and undertaken by the auditors in advance and reviews the Compliance Department and whose controls are monitored by provision of non-audit services by them.
During the year under the Board.
The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the review total fees for these services amounted to 10,000 Statement referred to below under Internal Controls and inclusive of irrecoverable VAT and these services were in relation Management of Risk and an annual compliance report from the to taxation and the review of corporate governance matters.
Managers head of Audit, Risk and Compliance.
The Audit Committee considers that the services provided are The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, cost effective and do not impair the independence of the the 'whistle blowing' policy that has been put in place by the auditors.
Manager under which its staff, in confidence, may raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial Internal controls and management of risk | The Board has reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the overall responsibility for the Company's systems of internal Company.
The necessary arrangements are in place for controls and for reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that proportionate and independent investigation of such matters risk management and control processes are embedded in the and for appropriate follow-up action.
day to day operation of the Company.
These controls aim to The Audit Committee has direct access to the auditors, ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper  LLP, and to the compliance and accounting records are maintained and the financial information internal audit directors of the Manager and to the Manager's used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control group audit committee, and reports its findings to the Board.
of the risks identified covering financial, operational, compliance The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects relating and overall risk management is exercised by the Board through to the annual and interim accounts and other significant monthly reports provided by the Manager on investment published financial information.
The auditors attend the Audit performance, performance attribution, compliance with agreed Committee meeting to review the annual results and provide a investment restrictions, financial analyses and other comprehensive review of the audit of the Company.
The Audit management issues, and a quarterly control report prepared by Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 21 Corporate Governance continued the Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance department that Investment management, administration and custody | The provides details of any material internal control failure.
The Board has contractually delegated the management of the control report incorporates a key risk table that identifies the investment portfolio, the operation of custodial services and the risks to which the Company is exposed and the controls in provision of accounting, company secretarial and marketing place to mitigate them, including risks that are not directly the services to the Manager.
Details of the principal terms of the responsibility of the Manager.
Typical areas of risk material to Management Agreement are set out in note 3 to the accounts.
investment trusts in general, and which have been identified The Manager outsourced certain of its administrative and are monitored as part of the control process include functions to Mellon Bank N. A. London Branch in November excessive gearing, inappropriate long-term investment strategy, 2003.
The Manager retains full responsibility for these functions.
inappropriate asset allocation, loss of management personnel The Company has appointed JPMorgan Chase to act as and potential loss of Section 842 status under the provisions of custodian of the Companys assets.
Operational matters with the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The systems of the custodian are carried out by the Manager in accordance internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate with the provisions of the Management Agreement.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Investor relations | Communication with shareholders is material misstatement, loss or fraud.
The Company's annual report and The Board has carried out a risk control assessment, a key accounts, containing a detailed review of performance and the element of which was the Statement of Internal Corporate investment portfolio, is sent to all shareholders.
At the half year Governance for the year to 31 December 2004 the stage, an interim report, containing updated information in a 'Statement' prepared by the Manager for its investment trust more abbreviated form, is also sent to all shareholders.
Updated clients to the standards of the Financial Reporting & Auditing information is available on the F&C website at www.
Group Technical Release 21 94 FRAG21 issued by the All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
General Meeting, where a presentation is made by the Manager Containing a report from independent external accountants, the and where shareholders are given the opportunity to question Statement sets out the Managers control policies and the Chairman, the Board and the Manager.
All beneficial procedures with respect to the management of its clients shareholders in the F&C savings schemes have the opportunity investments.
The effectiveness of these controls is monitored to vote using a form of direction.
Proxy voting figures are by the Manager's group audit committee, which receives announced to shareholders at the Meeting.
regular reports from the Manager's Audit, Risk and Compliance The Manager communicates throughout the year with department.
The Companys Audit Committee will continue to institutional investors and private client brokers and asset work with the Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance managers and regularly reports to the Board on investors views department to enhance controls as they affect the Company.
As and attitudes relating to the Company.
The Chairman is reported above under Audit and Management Engagement available to attend meetings with these investors.
The Board Committee, the Board has concluded that there is no current also receives regular reports from the Manager analysing and need for the Company to have its own internal audit function, commenting on the composition of the Companys shareholder but will keep this under review annually.
register and monitors significant changes in shareholdings.
22 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman or other members of the Board may do so by writing to the Company at its registered office address, which can be found on page 10.
Corporate governance, voting policy and socially responsible investment | The Manager engages investee companies on corporate governance and socially responsible investment and exercises voting rights on behalf of the Company in accordance with this policy.
It is the Companys general policy not to vote where to do so might hinder the Managers investment decisions because of share blocking procedures often adopted in continental Europe.
At all times, the driving investment principle is the maximisation of shareholder returns for a given level of risk.
By Order of the Board F&C Management Limited, Secretary 4 November 2005 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005 23
