"Corporate Governance Introduction governance, socially responsible investment, The Board has considered the principles set out in shareholder activism and voting policy which is set out the Combined Code on Corporate Governance under ""Investment management"" on page 38, and issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July receives periodic reports on its implementation."
"2003 the ""Combined Code"" and the AITC Code of The overall attendance rate of Directors at Board Corporate Governance the ""AITC Code"" revised in meetings in 2005 was over 94%, and all the Directors February 2006."
The Board believes that during the attended the Annual General Meeting.
The following period under review the Company has complied with table sets out the number of Directors meetings the provisions of the Combined Code, in so far as including committee meetings held and attended they relate to the Companys business, save that the during the year under review.
The Board also met in Company does not have in place its own internal closed session on two occasions during the year, audit function the reasons for which are explained on without any representation from the Manager.
The Board is also adhering to the principles Audit & and recommendations of the AITC Code.
Management Private Engagement Nomination Equity Investment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board No of meetings 12 5 3 4 11 The biographical details of the Directors, all of whom M A Loveday 12 n a 3 n a 11 are resident in the UK, and information on the Directors R Adams decd 1 n a n a n a 1 1 M W Bunbury 12 5 n a 4 8 standing for election and re-election at the Annual K H Clarke 9 n a 2 n a n a General Meeting can be found on pages 27 and 30.
2 H Fukuda 4 n a n a n a n a E C S Macpherson 12 5 3 4 10 The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship J L Rennocks 11 5 n a n a 10 of the Companys affairs and has reviewed the M C B Ward 12 n a n a 4 9 A M Wood 10 n a n a n a n a schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which are 3 R J Gould 8 n a n a n a n a categorised under various headings, including strategy, 4 C A Keljik 4 n a n a n a n a 1 Joined Investment Committee on 23 February 2005. policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, 2 Retired 4 May 2005. performance, appointments, the Board and public 3 Appointed 5 May 2005. documents.
It has responsibility for all corporate 4 Appointed 1 September 2005. strategic issues, dividend policy, share buy-back policy The Board believes that it has at present a and corporate governance matters.
In order to enable reasonable balance of skills, experience, ages and them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors length of service.
Two new Directors, Mr Ronald have full and timely access to relevant information.
At Gould and Mr Christopher Keljik, were appointed each meeting the Board reviews the Companys during the year.
The appointments of investment performance and considers financial Mr Max Ward and Mr Ewen Macpherson, who retire analysis and other reports of an operational nature.
The by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Board monitors compliance with the Companys Meeting, and of Mr Gould and Mr Keljik, who will objectives and is responsible for setting asset stand for election by shareholders, have been allocation, investment and gearing limits within which reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
All Directors the Manager has discretion to act, and thus supervises are required to submit themselves for re-election at the management of the investment portfolio which is least every three years.
contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has the right of veto over the appointment of sub-managers The Board is of the view that length of service will not recommended by the Manager.
The Board has necessarily compromise the independence or responsibility for the approval of Private Equity and contribution of directors of an investment trust unlisted investments and all investments in in-house company, where continuity and experience can add funds managed or advised by the Manager.
Strategic significantly to the strength of a board.
No limit on the issues, as highlighted on page 7 of the Business overall length of service of any of the Companys Review, are reviewed regularly.
The Board has reviewed Directors, including the Chairman, has therefore been and endorsed the Managers approach to corporate imposed.
34 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the Independence of Directors Committees and the individual Directors, the Chairman The Board, which is composed solely of noncarried out a thorough appraisal process in December executive Directors, regularly reviews the 2005 in respect of the year under review.
This independence of its members.
All the Directors are encompassed both quantitative and qualitative independent of the Manager, on the grounds that measures of performance in respect of the Board and none has a past or current connection with that the Committees implemented by way of an evaluation organisation.
All the Directors, including Mr survey, a questionnaire and interviews with the Macpherson who has served for nine years, are also Chairman.
The Fund Manager and the Company independent of the Company itself: in the opinion of Secretary also participated in this part of the process the Board, each Director remains independent in to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
With character and judgement and there are no regard to individual Directors, the performance relationships or circumstances relating to the appraisal was qualitative, implemented by way of a Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
Mr questionnaire and an appraisal meeting with the Macpherson, whose continuing independence was Chairman.
The appraisal of the Chairman follows the assessed by the Nomination Committee and same process and is carried out by the Board as a endorsed by the Board, will henceforth stand for rewhole under the leadership of the Senior Independent election annually.
Whilst the Board currently Director, in the absence of the Chairman.
The comprises independent Directors only, it is appraisal process is considered by the Board to be nevertheless prepared to have a minority of nonconstructive in terms of identifying areas for improving independent Directors should this be considered the functioning and performance of the Board and the appropriate at any stage.
Committees and the contribution of individual The Chairman, Mr Mark Loveday, retired as senior Directors, building on and developing individual and partner of the Company's corporate stockbroker, now collective strengths, as well as setting priorities for the named JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, in April 2001.
The Board has considered the option of Loveday and the Company have small shareholdings in using external appraisal consultants and, whilst it Cazenove Group Limited, which owns a 50% interest in believes that this is unlikely to provide any meaningful JPMorgan Cazenove Limited.
Mr Loveday did not advantage over the internal process that has been advise the Board personally during his time as senior adopted, it could nevertheless provide an independent partner and the Board does not consider that his perspective if used on an occasional basis.
This will independence is compromised by this past connection.
be given further consideration in 2006.
Other than Mr Loveday's trusteeship of the Grosvenor The Board has established a procedure whereby Estate and related directorships of Deva Group Limited Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their and Deva Holdings Limited, he has no other external duties, may take independent professional advice at business responsibilities.
The Board has direct There is no chief executive position within the access to company secretarial advice and services of Company, as day-to-day management of the the Manager which, through its nominated Companys affairs, with the exception of Private representative, is responsible for ensuring that Board Equity investment, has been delegated to the and Committee procedures are followed, and that Manager.
applicable regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and other meetings are fully Board Committees recorded through a process that allows any concerns The Board has appointed a number of committees of Directors to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board as set out below.
Copies of the terms of reference of has the power to appoint or remove the Company each committee are available on request and can Secretary in accordance with the terms of the also be found on the Companys website at Management Agreement.
Membership is listed Company has maintained appropriate insurance on page 27 and attendance at meetings on page 34. cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Report and Accounts 2005 35 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to As the Board has no executive Directors and no review and make recommendations with regard to employees, and is composed solely of nonthe Board structure, size and composition, the executives, it does not have a Remuneration balance of knowledge, experience, skill range and Committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration age profile and consider succession planning and arrangements for the Directors of the Company can tenure policy.
It also considers the criteria for future be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on Board appointments and the methods of recruitment, pages 32 and 33 and in note 6 on the accounts.
The Committee considers and makes recommendations Private Equity Committee to the Board with regard to the appointment of new The function of the Private Equity Committee is to Directors, committee membership, the remonitor and assess the performance of the appointment of those Directors standing for reCompany's Private Equity investments managed by election at annual general meetings, variations in HarbourVest Partners LLC and Pantheon Ventures terms of appointment and the question of each Limited the Private Equity managers and to Director's independence prior to publication of the make recommendations to the Board regarding Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee also further investments.
These responsibilities have been reviews the attendance and time commitment of the carried out in respect of the period under review.
Sir Directors in fulfilling their duties, including their other Michael Bunbury represents the Companys interests directorships.
on the advisory committees of the Private Equity The process of appointing at least one new Director managers.
No remuneration is paid by the Private with investment and international experience, to Equity managers to Sir Michael Bunbury in respect of replace Ms Fukuda and, subsequently, Mr Adams, these appointments.
had commenced towards the end of 2004 with the appointment of a search agency.
The Nomination Investment Committee Committee interviewed a short list of five candidates The Board established an Investment Committee in in February 2005 from a total of 14 that had been put December 2004 which met on 11 occasions in the forward by the search agency.
The Committee comprised Mr Mark Loveday candidate, who had been put forward informally by Chairman, Sir Michael Bunbury, Mr Ewen another search agency was also interviewed.
Macpherson, Mr John Rennocks and Mr Max Ward.
Following these interviews, the Nomination The purpose of the Committee was to consider the Committee recommended that the Board appoint future arrangements for the management of the Mr Ronald Gould and Mr Christopher Keljik as North America and Japan portfolios and to consider Directors.
The Board subsequently approved these the matter of fees payable to the Manager, including recommendations: the final decision with regard to the introduction of a performance fee, as well as appointments always rests with the Board and all changes to the Management Agreement.
Details can such appointments are subject to confirmation by be found on pages 9 to 11 and 18 and 19 of the shareholders.
Following the successful An induction process has been prepared for new implementation of these arrangements, the appointees to the Board.
This involves a full briefing Committee was disbanded in December 2005.
A on the workings and processes of the Company by new committee is being formed with responsibility for the Chairman, by the Fund Manager, by the reviewing and monitoring the Companys service Company Secretary and by other appropriate providers and its marketing arrangements.
New appointees are also issued with a Company Audit and Management Engagement Committee Handbook and other key documentation.
the Audit Committee The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee 36 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC are to monitor the integrity of the financial statements independence standards.
The Manager and the of the Company and any formal announcements Company use different audit firms.
The Audit relating to the Companys financial performance: to Committee has also reviewed the provision of nonreview the Companys internal financial controls and audit services and considers them to be cost the internal control and risk management systems effective and in no way compromise the applicable to the Company: to review annually the independence of the Auditors.
The non-audit need for the Company to have its own internal audit services include taxation matters and the review of function: to make recommendations to the Board in the interim results.
The Chairman of the Audit relation to the re-appointment of the Auditors and to Committee is advised of non-audit work required approve their remuneration and terms of and a decision to authorise is taken on a case by engagement: to review and monitor the Auditors case basis.
The cost, which for 2005 was 43,000 independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of and is found in note 5 on the accounts, is not of a the audit process: and to develop and implement material nature.
policy on the engagement of the Auditors to supply Following a recommendation from the Audit non-audit services.
The Audit Committee currently Committee, the Board has concluded that there is no has responsibility for considering the performance of current need for the Company to have an internal the Manager in providing company secretarial, audit function: all of the Companys management accounting, administrative and marketing services functions, with the exception of Private Equity provided by the Manager.
investment, are delegated to the Manager, which has Other responsibilities that are currently carried out by its own Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance the Audit Committee include the review, monitoring and department, and whose controls are monitored by evaluation of key delegated services, Directors and the Board.
"The Audit Committee has received and Officers liability insurance renewal, dealing costs and reviewed the Statement referred to under ""Internal efficiency, stock lending limits, custodian arrangements Controls and Management of Risk"" below and an and intellectual property rights."
annual compliance report from the Managers Head of Audit, Risk and Compliance.
"The Audit Committee has direct access to the Auditors,  LLP, and to the The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied internal audit, risk and compliance director of the with, the ""whistleblowing"" policy that has been put in Manager, and to the Managers group audit place by the Manager under which its staff may, in committee, and reports its findings to the Board."
The confidence, raise concerns about possible Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other relating to the annual and interim accounts and other matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place for significant published financial information.
proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
All of the Audit Committees responsibilities have been carried out at its meetings held over the course of 2005 and in February 2006.
A meeting Internal controls and management of risk has been held with the Auditors to review the work The Board has overall responsibility for the carried out for the audit of the annual financial Companys systems of internal controls and for statements.
The Auditors also attend each Audit reviewing their effectiveness.
These aim to ensure Committee meeting and, on the basis of these that assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper meetings, the Audit Committee has been able to accounting records are maintained, and the financial assess the effectiveness of the external audit.
In information used within the business and for completing this review, the Audit Committee has publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, taken into account the standing, experience and covering financial, operational, compliance and risk tenure of the audit partner and his team, the nature management, is embedded in the controls of the and level of services provided, and confirmation that Company by a series of monthly investment they have complied with the relevant UK performance and attribution statements, financial and Report and Accounts 2005 37 Corporate Governance continued risk analysis and Managers reports, and a quarterly limits set and regularly reviewed and monitored by control report.
The Companys principal risks are set the Board.
"The control report The Managers policy on corporate governance, incorporates a key risk table that identifies the risks voting policy and socially responsible investment to which the Company is exposed and the controls in ""SRI"" takes as its starting point international codes place to mitigate them, and includes those risks that such as those produced by the Organisation for are not directly the responsibility of the Manager and Economic Co-operation and Development OECD, details of any known internal control concerns."
The as well as relevant national codes such as the systems of internal controls are designed to manage Combined Code of the London Stock Exchange and rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance business objectives, and can only provide listing standards.
Its approach is also informed by reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against codes relating specifically to corporate responsibility material misstatement or loss.
issues, such as the OECD Guidelines for The Board has carried out a risk and control Multinational Enterprises and the Association of assessment, including a review of the Managers risk British Insurers Disclosure Guidelines on Socially management infrastructure and the Statement of Responsible Investment.
"In some cases, however, Internal Corporate Governance for the year ended the Manager goes beyond these external codes and 31 December 2005 the ""Statement"" that has been standards and this is clearly spelled out in its own prepared by the Manager for its investment trust guidelines and communicated annually."
"clients to the standards of the Financial Reporting The Manager has a dedicated team of 14 and Auditing Group Technical Release 21 94 professionals, reporting directly to the Managers ""FRAG21"" issued by the Institute of Chartered Head of Equities, which engages companies directly Accountants in England and Wales."
Containing a on corporate governance and social, environmental report from independent external accountants, the and ethical practice.
Statement sets out the Managers control policies With regard to investment policy, the Manager and procedures with respect to the management of considers the governance practices of investee its clients investments.
The effectiveness of these companies in their broadest sense, which includes controls is monitored by the Managers group audit social, environmental and ethical factors where these committee which receives regular reports from the may affect the Companys financial performance.
Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance Departments.
Following a regular review of governance practices, The Companys Audit Committee will continue to the Manager will engage in dialogue with the investee work with the Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance companies through its voting and shareholder Department to enhance controls as they affect the process, to encourage adoption of better practices.
"As reported above under ""Audit and Where the engagement process uncovers evidence Management Engagement Committee"", the Board of positive or negative impact on company financial has concluded that there is no current need for the valuation, the Manager will consider this information Company to have its own internal audit function, but in the course of selecting, holding or disposing of will keep this matter under review."
At all times, the driving investment principle remains the maximisation of performance for a given Investment management level of risk.
The Board has contractually delegated the It is the Managers policy to exercise its voting rights management of the investment portfolio to the at shareholder meetings of investee companies as far Manager excluding investments in funds managed as practicable.
In 2005, the Manager voted at over by the Private Equity managers giving the Manager 3,000 meetings in 50 countries, and opposed responsibility for gearing, asset allocation and sector resolutions in 9% of cases.
Decisions on contested and stock selection, together with the overall risk takeover bids are always referred to the Companys management of the Companys assets, within the Board of Directors.
38 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC The Managers current policy, which is available on issues or concerns.
The programme will be the F&C website, has been reviewed and endorsed continued in 2006.
If so required, the Senior by the Board, which encourages and supports the Independent Director will attend any meeting on his Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards own, as will any other Director.
The Board receives Shareholders wishing to communicate with the periodic reports on the implementation of this policy.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any other member of the Board may do so by writing to Relations with shareholders the Company, for the attention of the Secretary at the Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
address set out on page 28 or by e-mailing to Shareholders can receive either an Annual Review FCITCoSec@fandc.
and Summary Financial Statement, which is designed to meet the information needs of most investors, or, upon request, a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts of the Company.
At the halfyear stage an Interim Report is sent out to all shareholders.
Information in updated form is also available on the Foreign & Colonial website at www.
A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys institutional shareholders and private client asset managers and, at annual general meetings, all investors have the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and the Fund Manager.
All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings plans have the opportunity to vote using a form of direction and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, have the right to attend, speak and vote at the meetings.
The Board monitors investor complaint levels and will keep under review the Managers arrangements for Treating Customers Fairly.
During the year the Chairman wrote to the top 23 institutional shareholders and to 30 of the largest private client asset managers, as a result of which meetings were held with nine of these shareholders, some of which were also attended by the Senior Independent Director and Fund Manager.
In total, shareholders representing 40% of the share capital were invited to meet with the Chairman and those owning 7.9% of the share capital took the opportunity to do so.
Over the last three years, some 35 institutions and private client asset managers have had meetings or telephone contact with the Chairman, representing approximately 30% of the shares now in issue.
Those meetings have been constructive in providing a two-way forum for the canvassing of shareholder views, gauging opinion, and for enabling the Board to become aware of any Report and Accounts 2005 39
