CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Governance Report and Committee Reports The Board considers all five non-executive directors which Role of the Board expression excludes the Chairman to be independent in character The Board provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or and judgement and is not aware of any relationships or through the operation of committees of directors and delegated circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, authority, brings an independent judgement on all issues of the judgement of any of them.
Notwithstanding Lady Judge was strategy, performance, resources including key appointments first elected to the Board of Friends Provident Life Office in May and standards of conduct.
The Board committees are constituted 1994 and to the Board of the Company in June 2001, the Board is with appropriate written terms of reference that are reviewed entirely satisfied that Lady Judge is independent in character and annually.
The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, which it then judgement, that there are no relationships or circumstances that implements through its approval and regular monitoring of a are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, her judgement.
business plan and budget prepared by the executive directors.
She has the broad experience, credibility and commitment The business plan specifies key developments towards the required to be an effective independent director, and the Board strategic objectives that are to be achieved by management benefits from her experience on governance issues that would be within an agreed budget.
At its monthly meetings, supplied with difficult to replicate.
Her other roles as Deputy Chairman of the information that is both timely and appropriate, the Board deals Financial Reporting Council and Chairman of the Professional with those matters specifically reserved for its decision, and Standards Advisory Board of the Institute of Directors inform her takes all material decisions affecting the Group.
These include contributions to Board debates on governance issues and acquisitions, sales, capital expenditure and financing, and the complement her role as the senior independent director.
oversight and review of the operation and achievement of the The Board is satisfied that, as a non-executive director seeking Groups activities.
The boards of F&C and FPLP and other re-election, Lady Judge continues to perform effectively and regulated insurance subsidiaries, including Lombard and FPIL demonstrates commitment to her role, including commitment of also meet separately and regularly to monitor and direct the time for Board and committee meetings and her other duties.
The non-executive directors experience covers a broad spectrum Board membership, attendance and balance and, coupled with the focus and experience of the Chairman and The current membership of the Board and the significant the executive directors, the Board is able to lead and give commitments of the directors are stated on pages 42 and 43, direction to the Group without any imbalance that may allow any which record the names of the Chairman, the Group Chief individual or group of individuals to dominate its decision taking.
Executive and the Deputy Chairman, who is also the senior Any director having a concern in this or any other regard may independent director.
The names of the chairman and members raise it with the Chairman or the senior independent director.
of each of the Audit and Compliance, Nomination and All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Remuneration Committees are stated in the reports of those Company Secretary who ensures that Board processes and Committees.
leading corporate governance practice are followed.
There is also an established procedure whereby individual directors, who During 2005 the Board met on 12 occasions, and attended an consider it necessary in furtherance of their duties, may take off-site strategy meeting.
The total number of meetings including independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board committees and the attendance of directors at these meetings are shown as follows: Information and communication Committee see key below B A&C N R I Members of executive management participate in an annual Total number of meetings 12 8344 strategic review that considers overall business direction and its Sir Adrian Montague financial implications.
Individual business units prepare annual Chairman 12 - 3 - 4 C budgets and business plans that provide a basis against which Lady Judge actual results can be benchmarked.
Assets, liabilities, investments Deputy Chairman, Senior non-executive director 12 - 3 4 C 4 and other relevant criteria are also monitored.
Progress against plans is actively monitored and supported by regular forecasts, Alison Carnwath Non-executive director 12 8- 4- which, together with actual results, are consolidated and Christopher Jemmett presented to the Board for discussion on a regular basis.
Non-executive director 12 8 C - 4 3 Through these mechanisms, the businesss performance is Ray King Non-executive director 11 7 - - 3 continually monitored, risks are identified in a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and, Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market Non-executive director 11 7 3 C - - where appropriate, corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Keith Satchell Group Chief Executive 12 --- 4 Performance and continual professional development Ben Gunn The Boards formal annual evaluation of its own performance and Chief Executive FPLP 11 ---- that of its committees and individual directors was carried out in Philip Moore 2005 by each director completing a questionnaire prepared Group Finance Director 12 --- 4 internally and based on the Combined Code.
The replies to those Howard Carter questionnaires were sent in confidence to the Chairman who F&C executive director 12 --- 4 analysed them.
The overall outcome was discussed at the KEY: B Board C Chairman October 2005 strategy meeting and the manner of dealing with A&C Audit and Compliance Committee N Nomination Committee emerging issues and concerns identified by the Chairmans R Remuneration Committee analysis was addressed.
The Board has again confirmed that it I Investment Committee 48 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS will keep this process under review to ensure that analyses of the At its AGM, the Company complies with the provisions of the outcome of this evaluation will give the Board, the Chairman and Combined Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the the Nomination Committee in particular, the information they need separation of resolutions and the attendance of directors, to continue to fulfil the intentions underlying the requirements of particularly committee chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of the Combined Code during 2006. the formal notice of the AGM complies with the Combined Code.
The outcome of every general meeting of shareholders, including Directors also individually attend internal briefings on specific detailed voting results and votes withheld, is published on the technical topics and external seminars to keep up-to-date with Companys website following the close of the meeting.
regulations and best practice affecting the Groups core businesses and report on these to the Chairman and the Secretary.
Institutional investor As an institutional investor, the Company aims to exercise wise There is a full induction process in place for new directors that stewardship over the companies in which it invests.
The Companys recognises the complexities of the life and pensions and asset approach to socially responsible investments has been enhanced management businesses and aims to enable directors to make a by the Responsible Engagement Overlay reo developed by the full contribution to Board discussions within an optimum timeframe.
Companys fund manager, F&C, which complies with the Committees of the Board principles set out in the Institutional Shareholders Committees Code of Activism, including attendance at annual general All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements meetings wherever appropriate and practical.
The Companys of the Combined Code are chaired by an independent director and policy on socially responsible investment can be found on the exclusively comprise, or, in the case of the Nomination Committee corporate website www.
com sri, which also where the Chairman of the Board is a member, have a majority includes the voting reports, voting policy and latest newsletter.
Reports on the activities of the Audit and Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are Internal controls and risk management included at pages 53 to 64.
Details of other committees are: The Group seeks to take appropriate and managed risks in order Investment Committee to make superior returns for its shareholders and customers.
Howard Carter, Alain Grisay from 1 January 2006, Christopher The Boards vision for risk management is an environment where Jemmett, Lady Judge, Ray King, Sir Adrian Montague, Philip business managers can take risks with confidence, and where Moore, Keith Satchell and David Newbigging until 26 May 2005. consideration of risk is embedded into business planning, decision-making and everyday management.
Group Risk Committee Keith Satchell, Philip Moore, Ben Gunn, Alain Grisay from 1 It seeks to have in place the people, processes and systems to: January 2006 and Howard Carter until 31 December 2005. identify and understand the risks facing the business: Details of the activities of the Committee are set out on page 50. select the appropriate risks to accept, and price correctly for them: With-Profits Committees WPCs of the Life and Pensions avoid, mitigate or transfer the inappropriate risks: and operating companies monitor the businesss risk profile against agreed risk appetite.
While these committees are committees of the boards of the Life Risk appetite and Pensions operating companies and not the Company, the Board of the Company appoints the chairman of the WPCs from Risk appetite is an expression of the level of acceptable and or amongst the independent directors of the Company.
Alison unacceptable risk as determined by the Board and senior Carnwath has fulfilled that role since 1 April 2004.
The Groups willingness to take on risk is set with of the work of the WPCs is set out on page 55. reference to its capacity to bear risk.
The Board has set its risk appetite for the Group, and in more detail for the individual Reporting to shareholders businesses.
Qualitatively, risk appetite is set within a range from The Company places considerable importance on communications risk seeking to zero tolerance, which varies according to the with shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of type of risk.
It has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings Risk categorisation with major institutional shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and Risks are categorised as strategic, financial or operational.
Details of governance are discussed.
Further, the Chairman and the senior specific risks currently facing the Group in the achievement of its independent director are available to meet major shareholders and strategy are given in the Annual Review on pages 15, 21 and 27. the Chairman writes annually to the 20 largest shareholders, Strategic risks are those associated with a poor choice of emphasising his availability should they wish to meet with him.
strategy, or with external forces acting to impair the Groups Twice during the year, the Chairman and the non-executive ability to realise its strategy.
The Boards appetite for strategic directors met with the Companys joint brokers, JPMorgan risk varies from risk seeking, for example in relation to finding Cazenove and Merrill Lynch, following completion of the executive and exploiting new applications of technology, to risk averse, presentations to major shareholders.
This helps the non-executive for example in relation to reputational risk.
directors to maintain an up-to-date understanding of the views of Financial risks arise from changes in financial risk factors and major shareholders.
include credit, insurance, liquidity and market risks.
The Boards appetite for the different categories of financial risks can vary by risk type, by company within the Group and by the funds or assets concerned.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Operational risks can arise in the Groups internal processes and Risk committees systems, through its people or from external events.
The Board The diagram below illustrates the governance structures for risk accepts that operational risks may arise in the normal course of management including the interaction of various risk committees business even when carried out in line with the Groups policies with the Board of the Company and its subsidiaries see following and applicable regulation.
However, the Board aims to build an text for explanation of abbreviations.
appropriate control environment to keep the exposure to operational risks in line with the agreed risk appetite.
The Board The Board of the Company is ultimately responsible for the is averse to risks arising from breaches of internal policies, legal Groups systems of internal control and risk management, and and regulatory obligations and professional or industry codes of for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed practice and standards, and to the impact these risks have on the to manage rather than eliminate risk, as no business can be Groups service to customers and on the reputation of the Group.
successful without taking some risk.
They can thus provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material This risk categorisation and the governance and management mis-statement or loss.
structures and processes described below apply to all the risks The Group Risk Committee GRC is chaired by the Group Chief facing the Group, including those that arise from social, Executive and is responsible for developing, sponsoring and environmental and ethical SEE matters.
More information about monitoring the risk management activities and processes of the the Groups performance in relation to SEE matters can be found Group.
Within the UK Life and Pensions business, the boards of the in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 40. principal operating companies Life & Pensions boards oversee the Governance management of strategic risk.
FPLPs Financial Risk and Operational Risk Committees FRC and ORC respectively, which include The Groups governance structures for risk management are based executive directors and other relevant senior managers, oversee the on three lines of defence.
Primary accountability for managing risk management of financial and operational risk respectively.
The GRC, lies with the business units, and with those specialist functions FPLP, the FRC and the ORC have detailed terms of reference that that are responsible for specific operational processes, such as describe their roles in the identification, assessment, management Human Resources, IT and Facilities Management.
A second line and monitoring of risk.
of defence is provided by the independent Group Risk function, and those specialist functions that undertake policy-setting and Within the international business, FPIL and Lombard have risk monitoring roles, such as Compliance and Legal.
The third line of committees comprising executive directors and other relevant defence is provided by Internal Audit, which has responsibility for senior managers that oversee their risk management processes providing independent assurance over the risk management and report into their respective boards.
The risk committees process and the internal controls environment.
Governance structures for risk management Risk information flows FP plc Board Board Risk function FP plc Audit & Committee Business Compliance Committee Group Risk Committee F&C Board FPLP Board FPIL Board Lombard Board F&C Financial Risk Operational FPIL Risk Lombard Risk Management Committee Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee F&C Risk function Lombard Risk coordinator FPIL Risk coordinator FPLP Business FPIL Business Lombard F&C Business units units Business units units 50 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Group Risk Function DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS provide quarterly reports to the Group Risk function for onward Specific risk identification and assessment methodologies have transmission to the GRC.
been developed for merger and acquisition and strategic investment opportunities, new product developments and The risk management arrangements within F&C are described in general project and change management programmes.
detail in the F&C Annual Report and Accounts.
F&C provides a quarterly summary of its key risks to the Group Risk function, for Internal control reporting to the GRC.
Operational responsibility within the Group ultimately rests with the Group Chief Executive and is devolved through an executive Risk management policies structure with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
The GRC has authority to approve policy for strategic, and In particular, the Chief Executive of F&C has operational reputational risks and for those risks that arise from membership responsibility to the Board of F&C and its shareholders, reporting of a group of companies called enterprise risks.
The GRC also appropriately to the Board of the Company as controlling approves the risk management frameworks of the Groups UK shareholder.
Members of Group management are, therefore, Life and Pensions business.
The operational boards of the Groups accountable for the operation of the systems of internal controls other core businesses are authorised to determine their within the Groups core businesses.
Management of each respective policies for the management of risk, subject to the individual business unit is responsible for putting in place the oversight of the GRC.
The Life & Pensions boards have delegated ongoing management and monitoring disciplines for risks and their authority to the FRC for financial risk policy and to the ORC activities under its control.
The structure is designed to provide for operational risk policy, including elements such as fraud, legal clear responsibilities and control for key areas of the Groups risk, business continuity and outsourcing.
These policies are all business and includes whistleblowing procedures to enable staff reviewed by the relevant committees on at least an annual basis, to raise concerns in confidence.
Through these mechanisms, the to ensure they remain relevant to the changing demands of the performance of the business is continually monitored, risks are business and regulatory environment.
identified in a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective Appropriate authority levels, limits and other processes are actions agreed and implemented.
confirmed and developed where necessary, consistent with the risk appetite set by the Board.
Review of internal control and risk management Risk reporting The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management that have been Detailed reporting is provided quarterly by the Group Risk function in place during the year and up to the date of approval of this to the ORC and the FRC in respect of operational and financial risk report.
The review covered all significant aspects of internal respectively.
Reports comprise details of the significant risks and control.
Further details of the review conducted by the Audit and details of activities to improve the control environment where Compliance Committee on behalf of the Board during the year is necessary.
The Life & Pensions boards receive a quarterly set out in the report of the Committee on page 53. summary of operational and financial risk and a detailed report of strategic risk.
These reports are summarised for the GRC, The Board is satisfied that the processes for identifying, assessing together with summaries of the key risks within the international and managing the significant risks facing the Group accord with and asset management businesses.
A further summary report is the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code in relation to produced for the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board also internal control.
Where a review identified any significant failings receives a brief monthly update on the key risks and issues as or weaknesses, actions have been taken or are being taken to part of its regular management information.
Risk processes Independence of external auditors Operational risk is identified and evaluated within business units The Combined Code requires the Company to explain the process using a risk and control self-assessment process.
Risks are to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded recorded on an operational risk database, along with details of the in their provision of non-audit services to the Company.
controls in place to manage the risks and any remedial actions necessary to improve those controls.
Risks are managed as The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the closely as possible to the source of the risk.
Risk information is independence, integrity, competence and professionalism of the updated continuously with business units reporting to the Group Groups external auditors and has satisfied itself that during the Risk function on a quarterly basis.
year, no aspect of their work was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception of independence and balancing The strategic and financial risk process is aligned to business that with the best interests of the Company, the Board has also planning, with risk being identified and evaluated in relation to the considered the policy for awarding audit-related and or non-audit achievement of business objectives.
The process is run centrally work to the Groups external auditors.
by the Group Risk function in co-operation with key business units.
Risks are recorded by the Group Risk function, which The Company does not impose an automatic ban on any Group co-ordinates quarterly reporting to the FRC and Life & Pensions companys external auditors undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work carried out in a manner that affords full value for money.
The auditors must Risks within business change activities are identified and not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question evaluated by the management of the change programme both and must have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out in relation to the delivery of the programme and in terms of the the work in the best interests of the Company and the Group.
change programmes effect on the business as a whole.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT In particular, however, auditors of the Company are not permitted to: The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: perform work that involves the valuation of an asset or liability the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial incorporated into any of the Companys financial statements: statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to act as secondees to positions of influence with the Group: financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to design and implement systems that have financial implications: their achieving a fair presentation.
provide internal audit services where an opinion has to be given on managements assessment of accounting controls and The parent company financial statements are required by law to financial systems: give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent provide litigation support services: company.
provide corporate finance services: and In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial advise on senior executives remuneration.
statements, the directors are required to: Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform audit-related select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit and consistently: Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
In particular, for the Group financial statements, state whether they have the Audit and Compliance Committee will give careful been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: consideration before appointing the auditors to perform work in for the parent company financial statements, state whether the areas of outsourcing and partnering, advice on tax structuring applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, and acquisition due diligence.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee is the parent company financial statements: and authorised to approve the use of auditors for audit-related and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed 50,000 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the and the aggregate value of audit-related and non-audit work parent company will continue in business.
awarded to auditors does not exceed the audit fee for the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the of the Audit and Compliance Committee is required.
financial position of the parent company and enable them to The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews annually the ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies performance, independence, competence and cost of auditors.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps If the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the services may be formally market-tested through a tender process group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that Statement of compliance with provisions of the comply with that law and those regulations.
Combined Code The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The directors consider that, save as next mentioned, the the corporate and financial information included on the companys Company has throughout 2005 and up to the date hereof applied website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and the principles and met the requirements of the Combined Code.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation While it remains the intention of the directors fully to comply in other jurisdictions.
with the requirements of the Combined Code wherever such Future developments compliance is within their control, between 1 January 2006 when Alain Grisay was appointed and 25 May 2006 when The Board believes that the controls in place during 2005 and to Howard Carter retires, the number of independent, non-executive date have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
directors on the Board will not represent at least half the Board Nevertheless, it continues to be committed to the highest membership, excluding the Chairman.
standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the Statement of directors responsibilities requirements of the business, the FSA and leading practice.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Any necessary changes will be made so as to continue to ensure the Group and parent company financial statements, in that the Groups customers are treated fairly and to continue to accordance with applicable law and regulations.
protect the interests of the Companys shareholders.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to For the Board prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance Gordon Ellis, Company Secretary.
10 April 2006 52 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
