EEV SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the European Embedded Value basis supplementary information The directors of Friends Provident plc have chosen to prepare In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the directors have: supplementary information in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the the EEV Principles, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on EEV Principles: European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005. identified and described the business covered by the EVM: When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: require the directors to prepare supplementary information in determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to accordance with the Embedded Value Methodology EVM contained past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance external data, and then applied them consistently: with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
made estimates that are reasonable and consistent: described the basis on which business that is not covered business has been included in the supplementary information, including any material departures from the accounting framework applicable to the Group financial statements.
Independent Auditors report to Friends Provident plc on the European Embedded Value basis supplementary information Independent Auditors report Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit having regard to International Standards on We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An supplementary information of Friends Provident plc on pages audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to 178 to 193 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005.
The the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 applied in the preparation of the supplementary information are together the EEV Principles using the methodology and appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and assumptions set out on pages 182 to 184.
information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 66 to 176.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so assurance that the supplementary information is free from material that we might state to the Company those matters we have been misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the presentation of the supplementary information.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2005 has been properly prepared in accordance As described above, the directors' responsibilities include preparing with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with out on pages 182 to 184. the EEV Principles.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the UK by the Auditing Practices Board, by our profession's ethical guidance and the terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information KPMG Audit Plc has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles Chartered Accountants using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 182 to Registered Auditor 184.
We also report if we have not received all the information and London explanations we require for this audit.
10 April 2006 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 177
