CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT The Nomination Committee directors contract for services to ensure that it continues to meet Purpose and Terms of Reference the requirements of the Combined Code.
The individual terms and The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be to the Board, for all new Board appointments.
It ensures the inspected during normal business hours at the Companys existence of a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, the aim registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
of which is to ensure that appointments are appropriate to the needs of the Group and the balance of the Board.
The Committee has assessed whether each independent director is fulfilling his or her duties, confirmed the time required of nonThe Terms of Reference of the Committee, which explain the executive directors for the fulfilment of their duties, and made purpose, delegated authority and duties of the Committee, have recommendations to the Board as to the independence of been published on the Companys website and can be obtained directors and their suitability for re-election as directors.
on written request to the Company Secretary.
Through its agenda, the Committee effectively deals with the duties delegated to it by Finally, the Committee reviewed a draft of the notice to its Terms of Reference.
shareholders relating to the 2006 AGM to ensure its appropriateness as regards those matters to be disclosed that Membership and attendance could be regarded as within the Committees remit, for example, The members of the Committee are Lord MacGregor Chairman, the biographical details of directors and their independence.
Lady Judge and Sir Adrian Montague.
The attendance record of members at the meetings of the Committee is set out on page 48.
The Group Chief Executive attended when required, by invitation.
For the entirety of 2005, and up to the date of this report, the Company complied with the requirements of the Combined Code in so far as they related to the work of nomination committees.
Activities and work of the Committee For the Board The Committee has continued to review succession plans for both The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market executive and non-executive directors.
It has also again reviewed Chairman, Nomination Committee.
the standard letter of appointment used for the non-executive 10 April 2006 54 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005
