DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS The Audit and Compliance Committee reviewed by the Committee and it has also monitored the Purpose and Terms of Reference implementation of all appropriate changes.
The Committee provides the Board with independent assurance on the Groups financial reporting process, internal controls and In view of the extensive changes to the Group as a result of the adherence to policies and procedures.
The role, responsibilities increase in international operations and the merger of ISIS and and work of the Committee can best be understood by reference F&C, the Committee undertook a full review of the reporting to its written Terms of Reference, which are published on the structures for internal audit, group risk and compliance in order to Companys website and can be obtained on written request to ensure that the Committee continued to receive proper assurance the Secretary at the Companys registered office.
on the management of risk and internal controls throughout the Group.
The recommendations of the review were implemented The Committee has again reviewed its Terms of Reference and during the year.
its effectiveness, the latter by reference to a self-assessment questionnaire, circulated to senior managers and directors, that As part of its normal responsibilities, the Committee has dealt focused on the behaviours of the Committee and its processes.
with compliance with the relevant parts of the Combined Code, The output also provided the Chairman of the Committee with the effectiveness of internal controls and reporting procedures an overview of each members perception of the effectiveness for risk management processes.
In particular, the Committee of the Committee.
The results were discussed in January 2006, has agreed the annual audit plan with the external auditor and when the Committee collectively concluded that it was has considered the auditors reports and has monitored and operating effectively.
followed up management actions in response to the issues raised.
The Committee also worked closely with Internal Audit Membership and attendance and agreed the annual internal audit plan and reviewed the The members of the Committee are Christopher Jemmett performance and resourcing of Internal Audit.
The Committee Chairman, Alison Carnwath, Ray King and Lord MacGregor and also reviewed the Companys policy on whistleblowing, the their record of attendance during 2005 is set out on page 48. anti-money laundering procedures and the annual compliance plan for the Companys UK life and pensions subsidiaries.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should The use of the auditors for non-audit work is approved by the continue throughout 2006.
Committee meetings are normally Committee.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the attended by the external auditors and, periodically the Group effectiveness of the external auditor and has made a Finance Director, the Group Chief Executive, the Director of Risk, recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of the auditor.
the Director of Compliance and Internal Audit, the Director of Within the schedule of meetings the Committee fulfilled its main Group Finance and the Head of Internal Audit.
role and responsibilities and as a consequence can confirm that it Activities and work of the Committee has met the requirements of the Combined Code in so far as they relate to the work of audit committees, during 2005 and up to the During 2005, the Committee met on eight occasions, timed to date of this report.
coincide with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the Company.
The increase in the number of meetings of the Committee from 2004 reflected the additional workload due to the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the increasing size and complexity of the Group.
The Committee has throughout the year monitored the integrity For the Board of the financial statements through a review of the quarterly new Christopher Jemmett, Chairman, business results, final and interim report and accounts and draft Audit and Compliance Committee.
The introduction of IFRS and the 10 April 2006 adoption of European Embedded Value reporting have been Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 53
