309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 68 Corporate We are committed Governance to maintaining an open and effective dialogue with shareholders HBOSplc Annual Report and 68 Accounts 2005 309467 1-100 13 3 06 7:54 pm Page 69 Board independence and balance Board proceedings Corporate At 31 December 2005 the Board consisted The Board determines the strategic direction of 13 directors: the Chairman, 5 Executive of the Group and reviews operating, financial Governance Directors and 7 Non-executive Directors.
A formal schedule of Karen Jones was appointed a Non-executive matters reserved to the Board has been Director on 24 January 2006.
The Board has agreed and is available on the website determined that all of the Non-executive www.
com, and includes: Dear Shareholder Directors are independent within the meaning approval of the Groups annual Business of the Code.
Mark Tucker and George Mitchell Plan which defines the operating and stepped down as Executive Directors and strategic objectives of the Group and the In this section of the Annual Report we Peter Cummings was appointed as such risk framework within which it operates : explain key features of the Companys on 24 March 2005, 31 December 2005 and adoption of Group policies and standards corporate governance structure and how we 1 January 2006 respectively.
The Company on financial and non-financial risks, and apply the main and supporting principles of has also announced the appointments of other aspects of the governance the Combined Code the Code.
The Jo Dawson and Benny Higgins as Executive framework: Company monitors developments in best Directors with effect from 1 May 2006. approval of significant transactions above practice to inform our decisions on corporate The Company believes the Board is of an defined limits: governance arrangements.
We fully support appropriate size to oversee the Groups the commencement or cessation and apply all the principles of section 1 of the businesses, and has an appropriate diversity of significant business activities: and Code, driven not only by a desire to comply, of backgrounds and mix of experience and the scope of delegations to Board but because we believe that this framework expertise to maximise its effectiveness.
Committees, subsidiary boards and best aligns with our business objectives.
We the senior management of the Group.
complied throughout the year with all the The outside commitments of Executive and provisions in section 1 of the Code, other Non-executive Directors are monitored and The senior management of the Group is than provision C. 3.1 on the composition of significant appointments are noted in their responsible to the Board for: the Audit Committee, where we believe we biographical details on pages 66 and 67. developing strategy: have gone beyond the independence The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive the profitability and overall performance requirements of the Code.
are separate and their respective duties, of the Group: and along with those of other key officers and managing the Groups businesses in board committees including the Deputy accordance with the Group Business Plan, I hope you find the report which follows of Chairman, are codified in a detailed Board and the policies, standards and risk interest.
As part of our ongoing commitment Control Manual.
Until 31 July 2006, the Chief appetite defined by the Board.
to maintaining an open and effective dialogue Executive will work in parallel with the Chief with shareholders on corporate governance Executive Designate who will, at 31 July The Board and its Committees meet regularly.
matters, I would welcome any thoughts or 2006, assume the role of Chief Executive in The table below summarises the number of comments you may have.
Until then the Chief Executive and Board and main Committee meetings held the Chief Executive Designate will consult in 2005, and the level of attendance.
between themselves on the proper exercise of their respective authorities.
Dennis Stevenson The Company Secretary is an employee, but not a Director, of the Company.
Chairman Board & Committee attendance during the year ended 31 December 2005 Board Audit Nomination Remuneration A N R Number of meetings held in year 10 9 4 8 Number of meetings attended in year: Dennis Stevenson N 10 4 James Crosby N 10 4 Charles Dunstone 10 Sir Ron Garrick N, R 10 4 8 Tony Hobson A 9 9 Phil Hodkinson 10 Andy Hornby 10 Brian Ivory R, N 9 4 8 John Maclean A retired 27 April 2005 4 4 Colin Matthew 10 Coline McConville A, N, R 7 6 4 8 George Mitchell resigned 31 December 2005 10 Kate Nealon A 10 8 David Shearer A 10 6 Mark Tucker resigned 24 March 2005 3 John Ormerod A joined 1 August 2005 2 indicates committee chairman David Shearer was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 April 2005 John Ormerod is not a director of HBOS plc.
Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 69 309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 70 appointments to the Board will take effect involvement of the Chairman and all Corporate after the 2006 AGM, will present themselves Directors and, where appropriate, other for election at the 2007 AGM.
The outputs Governance or other findings of these evaluations leads As previously announced, Dennis Stevenson to the development and implementation of continued agreed to serve a further three-year term as detailed action plans.
No material failings or Chairman, commencing 1 July 2005, weaknesses were identified during the year.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors met following his re-election as a Director by on one occasion, without the Chairman or shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
Board committees the Executive Directors being present, under The Board has written Terms of Reference for the leadership of Sir Ron Garrick, Senior Information, induction and its principal Committees - Audit, Remuneration Independent Director and Deputy Chairman, professional development and Nomination - which are available in full on specifically to review and evaluate the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the Companys website www.
that the Directors receive timely and clear The Board reviews the Terms of Reference of information, in particular about the Companys each Committee at least annually.
Membership The Non-executive Directors have access strategy and performance, to ensure of each Committee is designed to ensure that to the advice and services of the Company constructive debate and effective decisionthe Committees can fulfil their respective roles Secretary.
Additionally, if required in the making.
The Company Secretary, under the fully and effectively, and to make best use of furtherance of their duties, Non-executive direction of the Chairman, is responsible for the skills and experience of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to seek independent ensuring good information flows within the Directors.
Given the complementary roles professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board and Board Committees, and between of the Remuneration and Nomination senior management and Non-executive Committees, the Group believes that some The Company provides directors and Directors.
The Company Secretary also has overlap of their respective memberships is officers liability insurance, giving appropriate responsibility for providing advice to the Board desirable.
Other persons, if invited, may attend cover for legal action brought against its on Corporate Governance issues.
meetings of Committees, where appropriate, Directors, and implements an indemnity to assist in the effective discharge of the duties policy for Directors, in circumstances where Under the direction of the Chairman, all new of those Committees.
More details of the work they are not considered to be culpable.
Directors receive a full, formal and tailored of the Audit and Nomination Committees In addition, resolutions will be put at the induction programme.
Details relating to the Remuneration 2006 AGM to change the Companys encompasses a series of meetings and Committee are given within the Directors Memorandum and Articles of Association briefings with senior management and Remuneration report on pages 74 to 92. to enable the Company to offer an indemnity aims to familiarise them with the Groups to Directors enabled by changes to the businesses, the risks and strategic Audit Committee Companies Act 1985 made in 2005. challenges those businesses face and the Tony Hobson Chairman economic, competition, legal and regulatory Coline McConville Internal control environments in which they operate.
Kate Nealon The Board has overall responsibility for the John Ormerod joined 1 August 2005 Groups system of internal control and risk The Chairman requires all Directors to update David Shearer joined 1 April 2005 management and reviews its effectiveness their skills continually and ensure they have annually.
The review covers financial, the necessary knowledge and familiarity Membership of the Audit Committee is operational, compliance and risk to fulfil their role effectively.
Specifically, reviewed by the Chairman of the Committee management controls.
The implementation development undertaken in 2005 covered and the Chairman of the Group who is not and maintenance of the risk management awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, a member of the Audit Committee at and internal control systems are the financial and other developments including, regular intervals, and they consult with the responsibility of the Executive Directors and for example, the impacts of the introduction Nomination Committee in respect of potential other senior management.
Systems are of International Financial Reporting candidates for membership of the Committee.
designed to manage the risk of failure to Standards and the proposed Basel II capital The Committee comprises at least four achieve business objectives, and provide and risk management arrangements.
members who are independent of reasonable assurance against material management and free of any relationship misstatement or loss.
Director and Board evaluation which could interfere with the exercise of The performance of the Chairman is reviewed their independent judgement.
Four of the Further details of the Groups internal by the Non-executive Directors, led by the five current members of the Committee are controls are disclosed in the Risk Deputy Chairman, taking into account the independent, Non-executive Directors of Management report on pages 55 to 60. views of the Executive Directors.
John Maclean was a member of the Non-executive Directors led by Sir Ron of the Audit Committee until he retired from Election and re-election of Directors Garrick and excluding the Chairman, carried the Board on 27 April 2005.
John Ormerod In accordance with the Companys Articles out this review in January 2006.
The outcome joined the Committee on 1 August 2005. of Association, all Directors must stand for of this meeting was confirmed to the Chairman John is neither a Director of HBOS plc nor an re-election at intervals of no more than three by the Deputy Chairman.
The performance employee of the Group and therefore provides years.
At the AGM in 2006, Sir Ron Garrick, of individual Non-executive Directors is kept an additional resource and independent Phil Hodkinson, Andy Hornby and Coline under continuous review by the Chairman and perspective to the Committees deliberations.
McConville will retire by rotation and will by the Nomination Committee.
each seek re-election by shareholders.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference The Chairman is pleased to confirm that the The performance of the Chief Executive require that at least one member should performance of all directors continues to be is reviewed by the Chairman, taking into have significant, recent and relevant effective, and they continue to demonstrate account the views of other Directors.
The Board considers commitment to their respective roles.
performance of individual Executive Directors that Tony Hobson, a Chartered Accountant is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, and formerly until 2001 Group Finance All Directors are subject to election by to whom they report.
The performance of all Director of Legal & General, has the shareholders at the first AGM following their other Group employees is monitored and significant recent and relevant financial appointment.
Accordingly Peter Cummings reviewed as part of the Groups formal, experience required.
Both David Shearer and Karen Jones, having been appointed annual appraisal programme.
and John Ormerod are also considered Directors with effect from 1 January 2006 to have high levels of recent and relevant and 24 January 2006 respectively, will The performance and effectiveness financial expertise.
All Audit Committee present themselves for election at the 2006 of the Board and each of its Committees members are expected to be financially AGM.
Jo Dawson and Benny Higgins, whose is evaluated during the year, with the literate and to have relevant experience.
HBOSplc Annual Report and 70 Accounts 2005 309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 71 The Group provides an induction programme respect of matters that they wish to bring opportunity for objective assessment of the for new Audit Committee members and to his attention.
incumbent auditors, as well as alternative ongoing training to enable all of the Committee audit firms.
In years when there is no audit members to carry out their duties.
The The Terms of Reference of the Audit review, an annual in-depth assessment of the induction programme covers the role of the Committee covers all relevant matters external auditors performance is undertaken.
Audit Committee, its Terms of Reference and required by the Code.
The Senior Deputy expected time commitment by members, Company Secretary acts as Secretary An audit review process is currently underway, along with an overview of the Groups to the Committee.
the outcome of which is expected to lead to business.
New Committee members also a recommendation from the Audit Committee meet with senior management across the Internal audit to the Board.
It is envisaged that any business and Group.
Group Internal Audit supports the Audit proposal to change auditors following the Committee, Divisional Risk Control review process would be put to shareholders The Audit Committee is supported by Committees and senior management by for approval at the 2007 AGM, with any Divisional Risk Control Committees, which reviewing independently and objectively the change to take effect from the audit for the act under delegated authority from the Audit effectiveness of the controls and risk 2007 financial year.
They review, on behalf of the environment.
The Audit Committee reviews Audit Committee, the adequacy of the and approves the annual Internal Audit Plan Nomination Committee relevant Divisions system of internal control and achievements against it, the Internal Sir Ron Garrick Chairman and risk management: and the significant Audit Charter, the results of key audits and James Crosby risks facing that business along with the other significant findings, the adequacy Brian Ivory techniques used to identify, assess and of the managements responses and the Coline McConville manage those risks.
The minutes and work timeliness of resolution, and the statistics on Dennis Stevenson of the Divisional Risk Control Committees staff numbers, qualifications and experience.
are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
It seeks to ensure that the activities of the The Company Secretary acts as Secretary Internal Audit function are co-ordinated with to the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee met nine times in the external auditors.
The Committee receives and also approves the appointment or removal The Committee is responsible for: challenges reports from senior management, of the Head of Group Internal Audit.
leading the process for making consulting as necessary with the external appointments to the Board in relation to and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee Auditor independence & remuneration both Executive and Non-executive assists the Board in relation to its external Both the Board and the external auditors positions: financial reporting requirements: its risk and have safeguards in place to protect the ensuring that process is formal, rigorous internal control environment: and the Groups independence and objectivity of the auditors.
and transparent: compliance with the Code.
In particular, The Audit Committee has a comprehensive keeping the composition of the Board during 2005 the Committee: policy to regulate the use of auditors for under review through a proper evaluation reviewed and advised the Board on non-audit services.
This policy sets out the of the skills, knowledge and experience of the Groups interim and annual financial nature of work the external auditors may Directors and the needs of the Group, the statements, its accounting policies and not undertake, which includes work which Board and its Committees: and practices, the control of its financial and will ultimately be subject to external audit, ensuring plans are in place for orderly business risks, the nature and scope of internal audit services and secondments to succession to appointments to the Board, the work to be performed by the external senior management positions in the Group and to other senior management positions.
and internal auditors and the results that involve decision-making.
It also includes of this audit work and the responses the Groups policy on hiring former external As the Committees responsibilities relate of management: audit staff.
For those services that are both to Executive and Non-executive Board considered the activities, resources, deemed appropriate for the auditors to carry roles, as well as oversight of the succession organisational structure and operational out, the policy sets out the approval process planning process in respect of other senior effectiveness of the internal audit function: that must be followed for each type of executive management positions, it is reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups assignment.
The Chairman of the Audit considered entirely appropriate that the system of internal control, including Committee must be consulted regarding Chief Executive is a member of the financial, operational, compliance and risk potential instructions in respect of defined Committee, in addition to the Chairman management, as well as the non-audit services above defined limits and and independent Non-executive Directors.
appropriateness and effectiveness such services must be subject to a The Committee is chaired by Sir Ron Garrick, of whistleblowing procedures: competitive review process.
who is both Deputy Chairman and the Senior made recommendations on the Independent Director.
The independent appointment and remuneration of the Each year the Audit Committee establishes Non-executive Directors comprise the external auditors, and monitored the a limit on the fees that can be paid to the majority of the members of the Committee.
performance of the auditors: external auditors in respect of non-audit reviewed the non-audit services provided services and monitors quarterly the amounts The Company reviews internal, executive to the Group by the external auditors, paid to the auditors in this regard.
The talent, which it benchmarks against and monitored the independence of the external auditors also report regularly to the appropriate peer group comparisons on a auditors: and Committee on the actions that they have continuous basis throughout the year, as a reviewed management procedures for: taken to comply with professional and key input to succession planning decisions identifying business risks and controlling regulatory requirements and current best by the Chief Executive and other members their financial impact: preventing or practice in order to maintain their of the senior management team.
In total, detecting fraud: ensuring compliance with independence.
This includes the rotation talent and succession data is held in respect regulatory and legal requirements: and of key members of the audit team.
Total of approximately 1,500 colleagues across the monitoring the operational effectiveness auditor remuneration analysed between Group, including the senior management of policies and systems.
audit and non-audit work is shown in Note 6 team that falls within the Committees remit.
The Nomination Committee ensures that this The Audit Committee holds private meetings continuous process including consideration with the external auditors, the Head of Group The Company has a policy that an audit from time to time of potential external Internal Audit and the Group Risk Director on review process should be undertaken at recruits includes planning for an orderly a regular basis to review key issues within appropriate intervals.
This supports the succession in respect of executive their respective areas of responsibility.
The Boards belief that the interests of appointments to the Board and other senior Group Risk Director and Head of Group shareholders are best served by selecting positions.
In this way the Chief Executive, the Internal Audit also have right of direct access auditors through a review process at senior management team and the Committee to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in appropriate intervals, which provides an and, through the Committee, the Board Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 71 309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 72 Relations with Shareholders Voting at the Companys AGM is conducted Corporate Institutional investors entirely on a poll, in accordance with the The Investor Relations team has primary, Review of the impediments to voting UK Governance day-to-day responsibility for managing shares prepared by Paul Myners in January communications with institutional 2004.
In order to make proxy voting as continued shareholders through a combination of straight-forward as possible and to briefings to analysts and institutional encourage shareholder engagement, the monitor closely the nature, mix and shareholders both at the interim and year Company also provides facilities for both end results, site visits and individual institutional and private shareholders to availability of suitably experienced and appropriately qualified management both discussions with Board members and key lodge proxy votes electronically.
members of the senior management team.
within and outwith the Group: create opportunities to challenge and develop Regular dialogue with shareholders helps Shareholders can receive up-to-date to ensure that the Companys strategy is information throughout the year on the individuals within the management team including through inter-Divisional moves : understood and that any queries or other Companys website, www.
issues are addressed in a constructive way.
This provides share price information, and can act with confidence when, expectedly or unexpectedly, senior roles become vacant, financial results, copies of presentations to There is also an annual audit of investor analysts and answers to frequently asked or other opportunities to strengthen the management team are exploited.
opinion which is undertaken on behalf of questions.
A telephone helpline is available the Board.
This takes the form of structured on 0870 702 0102 providing a contact point During 2005, assisted by this continuous interviews with individual investors and for shareholders on issues such as is conducted by an independent external dividends and announcements.
approach to succession planning, the Committee and the Board were able adviser.
The 2005 audit was conducted with 32 investors in the UK, North America and Senior Independent Director to respond quickly to the departure of Mark Tucker, by recommending and Europe.
Collectively these 32 institutions The Senior Independent Director attended represent almost a quarter of the institutional various briefings and other meetings with appointing Phil Hodkinson to the role of Group Finance Director a role in respect ownership of HBOS plc.
All interviewees had analysts and other representatives of enjoyed at least one HBOS contact over the institutional investors during the year.
of which he had previously been recognised as a strong and suitable candidate.
previous 12 months, the majority of which The Company considers his contacts were with Executive Directors.
The audit with investors were sufficient to develop In addition, the continuous nature of the gathered opinion on strategy, financial and a balanced understanding of the issues operational results, management, corporate and concerns of major shareholders, in senior succession planning process overseen by the Committee also helped to inform the governance and investor communication.
accordance with Code provision D. 1.1.
The views of these investors were reported Committees and the Boards decision that Peter Cummings should succeed George to the HBOS Board on a non-attributable In addition, the Senior Independent Director basis, giving the Board direct access remains available to meet shareholders on Mitchell as Chief Executive of the Corporate Division: to appoint Andy Hornby as Chief to investor views on a wide range of request.
Should any shareholder have a performance metrics to help them to concern which they feel cannot be resolved Executive Designate: and to make the external appointment of Benny Higgins as an Executive develop a balanced understanding of major through the routine mechanisms for investor shareholders.
The annual audit of investor communication, or by direct contact with the Director, following James Crosbys decision to stand down from the Board.
opinion complements monthly reports to Chairman or Chief Executive as appropriate, the Board on market and investor sentiment they are encouraged to contact the Senior The Committee adopts a similar continuous and opinion.
Independent Director, initially via the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
approach to the identification of potential, suitable candidates to join the Board as Private shareholders The Company Secretary, primarily through Non-executive Directors.
With assistance from external search and recruitment the Shareholder Services team, oversees communications with private shareholders.
consultants, the Committee considers, reviews and maintains a list of suitable Each year shareholders receive the Annual candidates, and ensures that this list is kept under continuous review and is Review & Summary Financial Statement or, if they so choose, the Annual Report regularly refreshed.
In respect of the Board vacancy created in 2005 following the retirement of Annual General Meeting AGM The Companys AGM takes place at John Maclean, a range of potential candidates was identified, informed by the different UK locations each year to maximise opportunities for the Companys shareholders continuous review process described above: by the Chairmans and the Committees to attend, should they wish to do so.
The AGM provides an opportunity for assessment of the mix of skills, knowledge and experience of the continuing Nonshareholders to hear about and question the Groups performance and the Directors executive Directors: and by the requirement of the Board and its Committees.
Interviews stewardship of the Company.
Shareholders who wish to raise a question can submit it were conducted with a number of potential candidates during the year, by the external beforehand if they wish, or alternatively can raise it at the AGM.
The Chairmen of the search consultants, members of the Committee, and other Directors.
As Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present at the AGM - a result of this process, the Committee recommended to the Board, and the Board along with other Directors - to answer shareholders questions, through the agreed, that Karen Jones be appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director with Chairman of the Board, on the responsibilities and activities of their Committees.
HBOSplc Annual Report and 72 Accounts 2005
