qxd 14 3 06 1:05 pm Page 17 Directors Report and Accounts 2005 British American Tobacco 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT British American Tobacco is committed to maintaining General Meeting on 27 April 2006.
With his appointment, high standards of corporate governance.
Our corporate the Board will comprise 12 Directors, of whom eight will governance framework is directed towards achieving be Non-Executive Directors.
our business objectives in a manner which is responsible Meetings of the Board and in accordance with high standards of honesty, The Board meets at least seven times annually.
These principles are the key matters on which the Board alone may make reected in our Standards of Business Conduct, which decisions are the Groups business strategy, its annual have been in place for many years and are kept under budget, dividends and major corporate activities.
It is also continual review in order to ensure that they remain responsible for reviewing the Companys internal controls at the forefront of best business practice.
Every Group and governance system and for approving our Standards company and every employee worldwide is expected of Business Conduct.
In addition, the Board annually: to live up to them.
In addition, the principles set out within our Statement of Business Principles are designed approves the Directors Report and Accounts, to help meet the expectations placed on us by our various recommends the final dividend and agrees the agenda stakeholders.
Both documents are available from the for the Annual General Meeting: Company Secretary and through our website bat.
reviews the quarterly and interim results and declares an The principal governance rules applying to UK companies interim dividend: listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the agrees succession plans and evaluates the Boards Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by performance over the preceding year: and the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
As required by the Code, this Statement reports on how the agrees the two year Company budget.
Codes principles are applied by the Company and provides The agenda for Board meetings is set by the Chairman in our formal report on compliance with the Codes provisions.
consultation with the Deputy Chairman, the Chief Executive The Board and the Company Secretary.
In addition to the Company The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders Secretary, the General Counsel to the Company attends for the success of the Group and for its overall strategic meetings of the Board.
direction, its values and its governance.
It provides the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet, leadership necessary to enable the Groups business if required, prior to meetings of the Board without the objectives to be met within the framework of the internal Executive Directors present and also meet annually, led controls described below, while ensuring that the Companys by the Deputy Chairman, without the Chairman present.
obligations to its shareholders and others are met.
All Directors are aware of their responsibility to take Directors decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The Company currently has a Board of 11 Directors: The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the Board the Chairman, Jan du Plessis, three Executive Directors to act as a single team by obtaining consensus at Board Paul Adams, Chief Executive, Antonio Monteiro fide Castro, meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, decisions will Chief Operating officer and Paul Rayner, Finance Director be taken by majority.
If any Director has concerns about and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Their details appear the running of the Company or a proposed action which on page 30 of the Annual Review together with details of cannot be resolved, such concerns will be recorded in the new appointee identied below.
No such concerns arose in 2005.
Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele were appointed The Board held seven scheduled meetings in 2005 and is as Non-Executive Directors on 1 January 2005 and expected to hold the same number of meetings in 2006.
Their appointments were confirmed at the Companys Annual General Meeting Management Board on 28 April 2005.
On 28 February 2006, the Company The Board delegates to the Management Board announced the appointment of Anthony Ruys as a Nonresponsibility for overseeing the implementation by the Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2006.
He will Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy be proposed for reappointment at the Companys Annual which it sets, and for creating the conditions for their BT2200 Report front.
qxd 14 3 06 1:05 pm Page 18 18 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued successful day-to-day operation.
The Management Board Chairman and Chief Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, are the Finance Director, the Chief Operating officer and with each having distinct and clearly dened responsibilities.
nine senior Group executives, whose names appear on The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, page 31 of the Annual Review.
It held eight scheduled ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and meetings in 2005 and is expected to hold at least the same for ensuring that a clear business and financial strategy number of meetings in 2006.
Members of the Management for the Group is formulated for recommendation to Board are also invited to attend meetings of the Board the Board.
An important aspect of his function is to from time to time, in particular when the Groups future ensure effective communication with the Companys strategy and annual budgets are under discussion.
shareholders and facilitate the productive contribution Board Committees of the Non-Executive Directors in particular.
The Board has established four principal Board Committees, Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief to which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the are the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, strategic and financial objectives.
He is also responsible the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Social for stewardship of the Groups assets and, jointly with Responsibility CSR Committee.
Each has its own clear the Chairman, representation of the Group externally.
terms of reference, which are available from the Company Secretary and through our website bat.
The roles During 2005, Jan du Plessis was appointed as a and membership of these Committees are described in Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Group p. l. c. more detail where appropriate below.
and as Chairman of RHM p. l. c. which is not a FTSE 100 company.
He notied these appointments to the Board Scheduled Board and Committee meetings held in 2005 prior to accepting them.
The following table shows the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held in 2005 and the number Board balance and independence attended by their respective members.
The Board considers that five of the seven Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Thys Visser and Piet Beyers Board  CSR are presumed not to be independent because of the Number held 7 5 3 4 2 shareholdings that they represent.
Accordingly they Number attended do not sit on either the Audit or the Remuneration J P du Plessis 7 3 1 Committees, both of which comprise solely independent K H Clarke 6 423 0 P N Adams 7 Non-Executive Directors.
P A Rayner 7 Rupert Pennant-Rea has served on the Board for just A Monteiro fide Castro 7 P E Beyers 5 2 1 under eight years but, including his tenure on the 2 R E Lerwill 7 423 2 board of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. he has served on the A M Llopis 7 5 3 4 2 board of the Groups ultimate holding company for 3 Sir Nicholas Scheele 6 423 2 slightly in excess of 10 years.
Although it had been R L Pennant-Rea 7 5 3 4 2 4 planned that he would retire in 2006, the Board has M H Visser 7 3 2 reconsidered this in light of the many changes in the Indicates not a member of that Committee.
membership of the Board over the last two years with Notes: 1 Kenneth Clarke was unable to attend certain scheduled meetings.
In his absence, three Directors, including the former Chairman, retiring the CSR and Remuneration Committees were chaired by Rupert Pennant-Rea.
in 2004, the death of one member in early 2005 and four 2 Robert Lerwill was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2005 and to its four Committees with effect from 28 February 2005. new appointments, including the current Chairman, in 3 Sir Nicholas Scheele was appointed to the Board and to its four Committees with 2004 and 2005.
The Board will be further refreshed with effect from 28 February 2005. the appointment of Anthony Ruys as a Non-Executive 4 Thys Visser was appointed to the CSR Committee with effect from 28 February 2005.
Director with effect from 1 March 2006.
However, in All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2005. order to provide continuity and stability throughout Every Director withdrew from any meeting at which his or her own position was being considered.
qxd 14 3 06 1:05 pm Page 19 Directors Report and Accounts 2005 British American Tobacco 19 this period of change, it has been agreed that Rupert Meeting after appointment and, subject to reappointment Pennant-Rea will remain a Non-Executive Director until at that meeting, for a further period ending with the Annual the Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2007.
General Meeting no more than three years thereafter.
The Board recognises that length of service can impact Subsequent appointment will be subject to endorsement on the independence of a Non-Executive Director and by the Board and the approval of shareholders.
There has therefore considered his position carefully.
Having is a general assumption on the part of the Board that done so, it is satisfied that he remains independent.
Non-Executive Directors will not normally be invited to stand for reappointment after serving nine years.
The Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Kenneth Clarke, The Committee reviews forthcoming retirements at is the Senior Independent Director.
He is available should least annually and the need to identify candidates to occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns ll vacancies for non-executive positions on the Board.
to the Main Board other than through the Chairman or This process includes an evaluation of the skills and Chief Executive.
He and the other Non-Executive Directors experience to be looked for in those candidates to remain available to meet with major investors in order to ensure continuing Board balance.
understand their views and concerns.
The Nominations Committee has made recommendations Appointments to the Board to the Board as to the Directors who are being put forward The Board has established the Nominations Committee for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting on to make recommendations on suitable candidates for 27 April 2006. appointment to the Board and for promotion to the Management Board, ensuring that both Boards have Information and professional development the appropriate balance of expertise and ability.
It is Directors receive induction on joining the Board, which chaired by Jan du Plessis and its remaining membership consists of at least two days briengs on all areas of the comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors.
After a period on the Board, they are given an opportunity to review the induction programme The Nominations Committee is responsible for ensuring and raise questions on any areas in respect of which they that the procedure for appointing new Directors is rigorous would like further information.
In addition, they have and transparent and that appointments are made on the opportunity to update their skills and knowledge merit and against objective criteria for the purpose.
The on a regular basis, for example by further briengs on selection process will generally involve benchmarking the business and by visits to Company sites.
They also and interviews with a selection of candidates, using the make use of the opportunity to attend meetings of the services of executive search rms specialising in board Groups regional audit committees.
Both Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele were appointed by means of this process, and The Board and its Committees receive high-quality, the appointment of Anthony Ruys has followed the up-to-date information for review in good time ahead same process.
of each meeting and the Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, ensures good information ows Directors are submitted for reappointment at regular within the Board and its Committees and between the intervals by application of the Companys articles of Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
These require that at each Annual General responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman Meeting: 1 not less than one-third of the Directors on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal who are subject to retirement by rotation must retire: of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
and 2 any Director has to retire who was not appointed at either of the two previous Annual General Meetings All Directors have access to the advice and services and who has served as a Director for more than two of the Company Secretary and a procedure is in place years since appointment or last reappointment.
for them to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, should this be required.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specified Company has arranged appropriate insurance to provide term, being an initial period to the next Annual General cover in the event of legal action against its Directors.
qxd 14 3 06 1:05 pm Page 20 20 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Evaluation of Board performance The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Kenneth The Board conducts a critical evaluation of its activities Clarke and its members are Ana Maria Llopis, Rupert on an annual basis.
The Company Secretary conducts Pennant-Rea, Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele.
private interviews with all Directors individually both Anthony Ruys will be appointed to the Remuneration Executive and Non-Executive to ascertain their views Committee with effect from 1 March 2006. on the performance of the Board and its Committees Details of the Directors remuneration are set out in and then compiles a report for the Deputy Chairman.
the Remuneration Report on pages 5 to 16.
The report is presented to the Non-Executive Directors and then to the entire Board.
In addition, the Company Accountability and audit Secretary collates the views of each Director on the Financial reporting individual performance of the other Directors and The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to presents these to the Chairman, who then uses them present a balanced and understandable assessment of in any discussions which he holds with any individual the Companys position and prospects in the Directors Director regarding his or her effectiveness.
The Chairman Report and Accounts, the Annual Review and Summary also discusses the effectiveness and performance of Directors Financial Statement, interim reports, reports to regulators immediately before they make themselves available for and price-sensitive announcements.
The Remuneration Committee evaluates Directors responsibilities for the financial statements is the effectiveness of the Chairman and the Chief Executive set out on page 24. annually and the Chairmans performance is also appraised The Directors statement conrming that it is appropriate annually at a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing led by the Senior Independent Director, without the the accounts is set out in the Directors Report at page 4.
Audit Committee In 2005, the process confirmed that all Directors The Boards obligation to establish formal and continue to make an effective contribution to the Board transparent arrangements for considering how it with proper commitment, including of time, to their roles.
should apply the financial reporting and internal The consensus was that the Board and its Committees control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate functioned very well and many Directors reported that relationship with the Companys external auditors, their experience on the Board compares favourably with  LLP, is met through the their experiences on the boards of other companies.
Notice for this years Annual General Meeting confirms that the performance of the Directors being proposed The Audit Committee is chaired by Robert Lerwill, for reappointment continues to be effective and that who replaced Rupert Pennant-Rea as Chairman with they continue to show commitment to their role.
effect from 1 August 2005, and comprises four other independent Non-Executive Directors Rupert PennantRemuneration Rea, Kenneth Clarke, Ana Maria Llopis and Sir Nicholas It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to Scheele.
Anthony Ruys will be appointed to the Audit determine the framework and policy on terms of Committee with effect from 1 March 2006.
Rupert engagement including remuneration of the Chairman, Pennant-Rea and Robert Lerwill both have recent and Executive Directors and members of the Management relevant financial experience.
The Chief Operating officer, Board and the specic remuneration of each Executive Finance Director, Head of Audit and Business Risk and Director and Management Board member including a representative of the external auditors will regularly entitlements under share incentive schemes and pension attend meetings of the Committee.
As a matter of schemes and any compensation payments.
Fees payable best practice, the Committee will meet alone with to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board on the external auditors at the end of its meetings.
the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
qxd 14 3 06 1:05 pm Page 21 Directors Report and Accounts 2005 British American Tobacco 21 The Committee is authorised by the Board to review any of their knowledge of the Group or because they have activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any been awarded it through a competitive tendering process.
information it requires from, and require the attendance The amount of non-audit fees charged by the auditors is at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of disclosed on page 40 note 3 e. management, and all employees are expected to cooperate The Company has in place a formal procedure by which with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys improprieties in financial and other matters commonly expense, outside legal or other independent professional referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
Details of these advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant arrangements are set out in the Companys Standards of experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
The Audit Committee reviewed and Activities of the Audit Committee in 2005 approved this procedure at the time it was implemented and The Audit Committee met five times during 2005, remains satisfied that it incorporates arrangements for the including immediately before the Companys full year proportionate and independent investigation of matters results were published.
It reviewed the Companys raised and for appropriate follow-up action.
financial statements including the full and half year Internal control results and all formal announcements relating to the The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal Companys performance.
control for the Company and its subsidiaries and for During the course of the year, the Committee met reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
It carries out regularly with management and with the internal and such a review at least annually, covering all material external auditors to review the effectiveness of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and business risk management and received controls and risk management systems, and reports to reports from the Groups regional audit committees.
shareholders that it has done so.
It reviewed compliance with the Standards of Business The Company maintains a sound system of internal Conduct, the Groups global information technology control with a view to safeguarding shareholders strategy and associated risks and the procedures in place investment and the Companys assets.
It is designed to within the Group for the management of its business manage risks that may impede the achievement of the records.
It has satisfied itself by means of these steps that Companys business objectives rather than to eliminate proper and satisfactory internal control systems remain these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not in place to identify and contain business risks and that the absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Companys business, and that of its subsidiaries, is being conducted in a proper and economically sound manner.
The Group uses audit committees at both regional and end market levels to support the Audit Committee The Audit Committee made recommendations to the in monitoring risk and control.
This framework provides Board on the reappointment, for approval by shareholders, a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and of the Companys external auditors and approved their managing the significant risks faced by the Company fees and terms of engagement.
It continued to keep and its subsidiaries.
The process has been in place the consistency of accounting policies applied across throughout the year under review and up to the date of the Group under review.
The Committee has established this Statement.
The Groups regional audit committees a policy on the appointment of the auditors to perform which are each chaired by an Executive Director focus non-audit services for the Group over and above the on risks and the control environment within each region external audit and keeps this issue under continual review.
and are in turn supported by end market or area audit It remains confident that the objectivity and independence committees.
The regional audit committees reviews of the auditors are not in any way impaired by reason of include consideration of the effectiveness of the process this further work.
Moreover, the Committee is satisfied for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks of the that such work is best handled by them, either because BT2200 Report front.
qxd 16 3 06 6:46 pm Page 22 22 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued business and the assessments of internal control and The Annual General Meeting is the principal opportunity business risks completed by operating companies.
The for the Board to meet a wide range of investors and for relevant external and internal auditors attend meetings of the Chairman to explain the Companys progress and all audit committees and have private audiences at all of receive questions from its owners, the shareholders.
At the these levels at least once each year.
In addition, regional Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2006, the Company and end market management, along with internal audit, will again, in accordance with the Myners Report and supports the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control best practice, provide for the vote on each resolution to environment.
be by poll, using the VoteNow electronic voting system, rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater The Turnbull Report, adopted by the UK Listing Authority, transparency and allows the votes of all shareholders to be provides guidance for assessing the application of the Codes counted, including those cast by proxy.
The voting results Principles and compliance with the Codes Provisions with are announced on the same day through the Regulatory regard to internal control.
The Board, with advice from its News Service and on the Companys website bat.
com Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance Corporate Social Responsibility with the guidance of the Turnbull Report for the period Since 2003, the CSR Committee has supported the since 1 January 2005 and is satisfied that it is in accordance Companys commitment to social and environmental issues.
It is chaired by Kenneth Clarke, its other members being all the Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors Relations with shareholders attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed towards ensuring a mutual understanding The Committees role is to help identify and assess, with of objectives.
Its primary contact with shareholders is management, those significant social, environmental through the Chief Executive and Finance Director, but and reputational risks that might impair the Companys the Chairman and Chief Operating officer also maintain strategic objective to be recognised as a responsible contact with major shareholders in order to understand company in a controversial industry.
The Committee their issues and concerns.
Where appropriate, major also evaluates the adequacy of the Companys policies institutional shareholders are consulted on significant on these issues and makes recommendations for change.
changes to the structure of the Executive Directors The Company publishes a Social Report annually.
At least twice a year the Head of Investor overview of the Social Report for 2004 05, which was Relations presents a report to the Board on the issues published in July 2005, was sent to all shareholders and considered at meetings between the Company and copies of the full Report are available on request and institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Board receives through our website bat.
The Companys Social regular reports on developments concerning the holdings Report for 2005 06 is expected to be published on of the Companys main institutional shareholders.
com in late July this year.
The Company has also considered innovative ways of The principles of CSR continue to be strongly embedded communicating with its smaller investors.
In November in the Group, with the governance dimension being 2005, a communication was sent to shareholders by provided by local and regional CSR committees, overseen the Company, together with the Global Trees Campaign by the CSR Committee.
Stakeholder engagement continues GTC, in which the Company offered to donate 5 to be very active.
As an example, the year-long test-markets to the GTC for every shareholder who opted to receive of snus a Swedish-style smokeless tobacco by the Groups future communications from the Company by e-mail.
companies in South Africa and Sweden are a response This initiative generated a significant response, with a to a number of public health stakeholders who indicated 170 per cent increase in the number of shareholders that they believe snus, properly regulated, can contribute to opting for e-communications, raising 20,500 for the reducing the health impact of tobacco.
GTC works to preserve the worlds most threatened in 34 countries are now engaged in social reporting and tree species and the habitats where they grow.
others covering 10 countries are holding dialogue and BT2200 Report front.
qxd 16 3 06 6:46 pm Page 23 Directors Report and Accounts 2005 British American Tobacco 23 reporting on a key issue.
All of the Groups Social Reports Compliance continue to be measured, through rigorous independent The Board considers that this statement on governance review, against the AA1000 Standard, and the latest AA1000 provides the information necessary to enable shareholders to Assurance Standard is being incrementally applied.
evaluate how the Principles of the Code have been applied.
The Company has either complied with the Provisions of The significant focus in CSR governance this year is to the Code throughout the year or, where it has not, a full monitor the embedding of the Statement of Business explanation as in the case of the continuing appointment Principles across the Group, with particular reference of Rupert Pennant-Rea has been provided in this Statement.
to revised guidelines for Corporate Social Investment The Board therefore considers that the Company has programmes and management of human rights risks.
satisfied its obligations under the Code.
During 2006, the focus will be on ensuring that all Group companies activities in these and other areas continue In the interests of further transparency, the Company to be aligned with the Core Beliefs and the commitments has also prepared a report which summarises the matters that they imply.
The aim is to ensure that the principles of addressed in this Statement, as appropriate, by reference CSR are embedded in the day-to-day culture of all parts of to each Principle and Provision of the Code.
The report the Groups business.
can be found on our website bat.
com at the corporate governance section.
The Company was selected for the 2006 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI World and its European equivalent, DJSI STOXX, our fourth year of inclusion.
British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad was also reselected for the 2006 DJSI World.
British American Tobacco was ranked among the UKs top 50 most responsible companies in the 2005 Corporate Responsibility Index run by Business in the Community BiTC, the 700 member organisation established in the UK to help business improve its positive impact on society.
The assessors for the Index, published with the Sunday Times, commended British American Tobacco for its outstanding performance in environmental management and impact.
American Depositary Receipts The Company has unlisted trading privileges for its American Depositary Receipts ADRs on the American Stock Exchange.
None of its securities are listed on any US securities exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the US.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither the American Stock Exchange listing standards nor the corporate governance rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Nevertheless, the Board has chosen, in the interests of good governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining the principal differences and common areas between the Companys corporate governance practices as explained above and those that would be required if the Company were subject to those rules.
The statement can be found on the corporate governance section of our website at bat.
