HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Governance, Regulation and Supervision Governance regulations requiring a specified percentage of local ownership: and restrictions on investment and other With listings of its ordinary shares in London, Hong financial flows entering or leaving the country.
The Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda, HSBC supervisory and regulatory regimes of the countries Holdings complies with the relevant requirements where HSBC operates will determine to some degree for listing and trading on each of these exchanges.
In HSBCs ability to expand into new markets, the the UK, these are the Listing Rules of the Financial services and products that HSBC will be able to Services Authority: in Hong Kong, The Rules offer in those markets and how HSBC structures Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock specific operations.
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited: in the US, where The Financial Services Authority FSA the shares are traded in the form of ADSs, HSBC supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis.
In Holdings shares are registered with the US addition, each operating bank, finance company or Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a insurance operation within HSBC is regulated by consequence of its US listing, HSBC Holdings is local supervisors.
The primary regulatory authorities also subject to the reporting and other requirements are those in the UK, Hong Kong and the US, the of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Groups principal areas of operation.
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the New York Stock Exchanges Listed Company In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Manual, in each case as applied to foreign private Supervision introduced a new capital adequacy issuers.
In France and Bermuda, HSBC Holdings is framework to replace the 1988 Basel Capital Accord subject to the listing rules of Euronext, Paris and the in the form of a final Accord commonly known as Bermuda Stock Exchange applicable to companies Basel II.
Details of the European Unions with secondary listings.
implementation of Basel II and how this will affect HSBC are set out on page 174.
A statement of HSBCs compliance with the code provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate United Kingdom regulation and supervision Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and with the Code on Corporate Governance UK banking and financial services institutions are Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the subject to multiple regulations.
The primary UK Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of statute is the Financial Services and Markets Act Hong Kong Limited is set out in the Report of the 2000 FSMA.
Other UK primary and secondary Directors.
banking legislation is derived from European Union EU directives relating to banking, securities, Regulation and supervision investment and sales of personal financial services.
HSBCs operations throughout the world are The FSA is responsible for authorising and regulated and supervised by approximately 490 supervising UK financial services institutions and different central banks and regulatory authorities in regulates all HSBCs businesses in the UK which those jurisdictions in which HSBC has offices, require authorisation under the FSMA.
HSBC estimates the cost of include retail banking, life and general insurance, this regulation and supervision to be approximately pensions, mortgages, custody and branch shareUS$635 million in 2005.
These authorities impose a dealing businesses, and treasury and capital markets variety of requirements and controls covering, inter activity.
HSBC Bank is HSBCs principal authorised alia, capital adequacy, depositor protection, market institution in the UK.
liquidity, governance standards, customer protection FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for for example, fair lending practices, product design, authorisation for banks and financial services and marketing and documentation standards, and businesses in the UK.
They also set out reporting social responsibility obligations for example, antiand, as applicable, consent requirements with money laundering and anti-terrorist financing regard to large individual exposures and large measures.
In addition, a number of countries in exposures to related borrowers.
In its capacity as which HSBC operates impose rules that affect, or supervisor of HSBC on a consolidated basis, the place limitations on, foreign or foreign-owned or FSA receives information on the capital adequacy of, controlled banks and financial institutions.
The rules and sets requirements for, HSBC as a whole.
Further include restrictions on the opening of local offices, details on capital measurement are included in branches or subsidiaries and the types of banking Capital Management on pages 176 to 177.
The and non-banking activities that may be conducted by FSA has the right to object, on prudential grounds, to those local offices, branches or subsidiaries: restrictions on the acquisition of local banks or 20 persons who hold, or intend to hold, 10 per cent or have imposed a withholding tax on such income.
more of the voting power of a financial institution.
The withholding tax rate is 15 per cent, increasing to 20 per cent from 2008 and 35 per cent from 2011.
The regulatory framework of the UK financial Subject to future conditions being met, Austria, services system has traditionally been based on Belgium, and Luxembourg may cease to apply the co-operation between the FSA and authorised withholding tax and instead comply with the institutions.
The FSA monitors authorised automatic exchange of information rules applicable institutions through ongoing supervision and the to the other member states.
These future conditions review of routine and ad hoc reports relating to will depend on other key financial centres financial and prudential matters.
The FSA may Switzerland, Liechtenstein, San Marino, Andorra and periodically obtain independent reports, usually from the US not exchanging information.
These the auditors of the authorised institution, as to the financial centres and several other European adequacy of internal control procedures and systems countries and related offshore territories have also as well as procedures and systems governing records entered into similar agreements to the Savings and accounting.
The FSA meets regularly with Directive with the EU states.
HSBCs senior executives to discuss HSBCs adherence to the FSAs prudential guidelines.
They Hong Kong regulation and supervision also regularly discuss fundamental matters relating to HSBCs business in the UK and internationally, Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions including areas such as strategic and operating plans, of the Banking Ordinance of Hong Kong Chapter risk control, loan portfolio composition and 155 the Banking Ordinance, and to the powers, organisational changes, including succession functions and duties ascribed by the Banking planning.
Ordinance to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority the HKMA.
The principal function of the HKMA UK depositors and investors are covered by the is to promote the general stability and effective Financial Services Compensation Scheme which working of the banking system in Hong Kong.
The deals with deposits with authorised institutions in the HKMA is responsible for supervising compliance UK, investment business and contracts of insurance.
with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
The Institutions authorised to accept deposits and Banking Ordinance gives power to the Chief conduct investment business are required to Executive of Hong Kong to give directions to the contribute to the funding of the scheme.
In the event HKMA and the Financial Secretary with respect to of the insolvency of an authorised institution, the exercise of their respective functions under the depositors are entitled to receive 100 per cent of the Banking Ordinance.
first 2,000 US$3,442 of a claim plus 90 per cent of any further amount up to 33,000 US$56,798 The HKMA has responsibility for authorising the maximum amount payable being 31,700 banks, and has discretion to attach conditions to its US$54,560.
Payments under the scheme in respect authorisation.
The HKMA requires that banks or of investment business compensation are limited to their holding companies file regular prudential 100 per cent of the first 30,000 US$51,634 of a returns, and holds regular discussions with the claim plus 90 per cent of any further amount up to management of the banks to review their operations.
20,000 US$34,423 the maximum amount The HKMA may also conduct on site examinations payable being 48,000 US$82,615.
In addition, of banks, and in the case of banks incorporated in the Financial Services Compensation Scheme has Hong Kong, of any local and overseas branches and been extended to cover mortgage advice and subsidiaries.
The HKMA requires all authorised arranging, certain long term and general insurance institutions to have adequate systems of internal products, and the provision of general advice and control and requires the institutions external arranging services.
Differing levels of compensation auditors, upon request, to report on those systems limits apply to each of these additional areas.
and other matters such as the accuracy of information provided to the HKMA.
In addition, the The EU Savings Directive took effect on 1 July HKMA may from time to time conduct tripartite 2005.
Under the directive, each member state other discussions with banks and their external auditors.
than Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg is required to provide the tax authorities of each other member The HKMA, which may deny the acquisition of state with details of payments of interest or other voting power of over 10 per cent in a bank, and may similar income paid by a person within its attach conditions to its approval thereof, can jurisdiction to individuals resident in such other effectively control changes in the ownership and member state.
For a transitional period beginning on control of Hong Kong-incorporated financial the same date, Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg institutions.
In addition, the HKMA has the power to 21 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Governance, Regulation and Supervision continued divest controlling interests in a bank from persons if the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency they are no longer deemed to be fit and proper, if OCC govern many aspects of HSBCs US they may otherwise threaten the interests of business.
depositors or potential depositors, or if they have HSBC and its US operations are subject to contravened any conditions specified by the HKMA.
supervision, regulation and examination by the The HKMA may revoke authorisation in the Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank event of an institutions non-compliance with the holding company under the US Bank Holding provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
These Company Act of 1956 the BHCA as a result of its provisions require, among other things, the ownership of HSBC Bank USA.
HSBC Bank USA is furnishing of accurate reports.
a nationally chartered commercial bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System.
HSBC Bank The Banking Ordinance requires that banks USA is the surviving institution of the 1 July 2004 submit to the HKMA certain returns and other merger of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Bank & information and establishes certain minimum Trust Delaware N. A. HSBC also owns HSBC Bank standards and ratios relating to capital adequacy Nevada, N. A. HSBC Bank Nevada, a nationally see below, liquidity, capitalisation, limitations on chartered credit card bank and HSBC Trust shareholdings, exposure to any one customer, Company Delaware NA HSBC Bank Delaware, unsecured advances to persons affiliated with the a nationally chartered bank limited to trust activities, bank and holdings of interests in land, with which each of which is also a member of the Federal banks must comply.
Each of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Hong Kong fully implemented the capital Bank Nevada and HSBC Bank Delaware is subject adequacy standards established by the 1988 Basel to regulation, supervision and examination by the Capital Accord.
The Banking Ordinance currently OCC.
The deposits of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC provides that banks incorporated in Hong Kong Bank Nevada are insured by the FDIC and both maintain a capital adequacy ratio calculated as the banks are subject to relevant FDIC regulation.
On ratio, expressed as a percentage, of the bank's capital 1 January 2004, HSBC formed a new company to base to its risk-weighted exposure of at least 8 per hold all of its North American operations, including cent.
For banks with subsidiaries, the HKMA is these two banks.
This company, called HSBC North empowered to require that the ratio be calculated on America Holdings Inc. HNAH is also a bank a consolidated basis, or on both consolidated and holding company under the BHCA, by virtue of its unconsolidated bases.
If circumstances require, the ownership and control of HSBC Bank USA.
HKMA is empowered to increase the minimum The BHCA and the International Banking Act of capital adequacy ratio to up to 16 per cent, after 1978 IBA impose certain limits and requirements consultation with the bank.
on the US activities and investments of HSBC, The HKMA is in the process of establishing a HNAH, and certain companies in which they hold Deposit Protection Scheme for banks in Hong Kong.
HSBC is also a It is expected that this will be launched in 2006. qualifying foreign banking organisation under Federal Reserve Board regulations and, as such, may The marketing of, dealing in and provision of engage within the United States in certain limited advice and asset management services in relation to non-banking activities and hold certain investments securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions that would otherwise not be permissible under US of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong law.
Prior to 13 March 2000, the BHCA generally Kong Chapter 571 the Securities and Futures prohibited HSBC from acquiring, directly or Ordinance.
Entities engaging in activities regulated indirectly, ownership or control of more than 5 per by the Securities and Futures Ordinance are required cent of the voting shares of any company engaged in to be licensed.
The HKMA is the primary regulator the US in activities other than banking and certain for banks involved in the securities business, while activities closely related to banking.
On that date the Securities and Futures Commission is the HSBC became a financial holding company FHC regulator for non-banking entities.
under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHCA, enabling it to offer a more complete line US regulation and supervision of financial products and services.
Upon its HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state formation, HNAH also registered as an FHC.
HSBC supervision and regulation in the US.
Banking laws and HNAHs ability to engage in expanded financial and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, the activities as FHCs depend upon HSBC and HNAH Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC and continuing to meet certain criteria set forth in the 22 BHCA, including requirements that its US action with respect to FDIC-insured banks that do depository institution subsidiaries, HSBC Bank not meet minimum capital requirements.
USA, HSBC Bank Nevada and HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank Nevada and Delaware, be well-capitalised and well-managed, Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. like other and that such institutions have achieved at least a FDIC-insured banks, may be required to pay satisfactory record in meeting community credit assessments to the FDIC for deposit insurance under needs during their most recent examinations the FDICs Bank Insurance Fund.
Under the FDICs pursuant to the Community Reinvestment Act.
These risk-based system for setting deposit insurance requirements also apply to Wells Fargo HSBC Trade assessments, an institutions assessments vary Bank, N. A. in which HSBC and HNAH have a 20 according to the level of capital an institution holds, per cent voting interest in equity capital and a 40 per its deposit levels and other factors.
Each of these depository institutions achieved at least the required rating The USA Patriot Act Patriot Act imposes during their most recent examinations.
At 31 significant record keeping and customer identity December 2005, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank requirements, expands the US federal governments Nevada, HSBC Bank Delaware and Wells Fargo powers to freeze or confiscate assets and increases HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. were each well capitalised the available penalties that may be assessed against and well managed under Federal Reserve Board financial institutions for failure to comply with regulations.
obligations imposed on such institutions to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist In general under the BHCA, an FHC would be financing.
Among other things, the Patriot Act required, upon notice by the Federal Reserve Board, requires the US Treasury Secretary to develop and to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve adopt final regulations with regard to the anti-money Board to correct any failure to comply with the laundering compliance obligations of financial requirements to maintain FHC status.
Until such institutions a term which, for this purpose, includes deficiencies are corrected, the Federal Reserve insured US depository institutions, US branches and Board may impose limitations on the US activities of agencies of foreign banks, US broker-dealers and an FHC and depository institutions under its control.
The US Treasury Secretary If such deficiencies are not corrected, the Federal delegated certain authority to a bureau of the US Reserve Board may require an FHC to divest its Treasury Department known as the Financial Crimes control of any subsidiary depository institution or to Enforcement Network FinCEN.
desist from certain financial activities in the US.
Many of the anti-money laundering compliance HSBC and HNAH are generally prohibited requirements of the Patriot Act, as implemented by under the BHCA from acquiring, directly or FinCEN, are generally consistent with the antiindirectly, ownership or control of more than 5 per money laundering compliance obligations previously cent of any class of voting shares of, or substantially imposed on the then HSBC Bank USA and all the assets of, or exercising control over, any US Household Bank now HSBC Bank Nevada under bank or bank holding company without the prior the Bank Secrecy Act which was amended in certain approval of the Federal Reserve Board.
respects by the Patriot Act and applicable regulations.
The US is party to the 1988 Basel Capital These include requirements to adopt and implement Accord and US banking regulatory authorities have an anti-money laundering programme, report adopted risk-based capital requirements for US suspicious transactions and implement due diligence banks and bank holding companies that are generally procedures for certain correspondent and private consistent with the Accord.
In addition, US banking accounts.
Certain other specific requirements regulatory authorities have adopted leverage capital under the Patriot Act involve new compliance requirements that generally require US banks and obligations.
The passage of the Patriot Act and other bank holding companies to maintain a minimum recent events have resulted in heightened scrutiny of amount of capital in relation to their balance sheet the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering assets measured on a non-risk-weighted basis.
compliance by federal and state bank examiners.
On 30 April 2003 the then HSBC Bank USA entered into The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Improvement Act of 1991 provides for extensive New York and the New York State Banking regulation of insured depository institutions such as Department to enhance its compliance with antiHSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank Nevada and Wells money laundering requirements.
HSBC Bank USA Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A., including requiring implemented certain improvements in its compliance, federal banking regulators to take prompt corrective reporting, and review systems and procedures to 23 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Governance, Regulation and Supervision continued comply with this agreement.
When HSBC Bank USA in those jurisdictions in which they operate.
Such merged with HSBC Bank & Trust Delaware N. A. on licences have limited terms but are renewable, and 1 July 2004, the OCC made the merger conditional on are revocable for cause.
Failure to comply with HSBC Bank USAs continuing compliance with the applicable laws and regulations may limit the ability requirements of the written agreement.
On 6 February of these licensed lenders to collect or enforce loan 2006, the OCC determined that HSBC Bank USA had agreements made with consumers and may cause the satisfied the requirements of the written agreement, consumer finance lending subsidiary to be liable for and it terminated the agreement.
HSBCs US consumer finance operations are HSBCs US credit insurance operations are subject to extensive state-by-state regulation in the subject to regulatory supervision under the laws of US, and to laws relating to consumer protection: the states in which they operate.
Regulations vary both in general, and in respect of sub-prime from state to state but generally cover licensing of lending operations, which have been subject to insurance companies: premiums and loss rates: enhanced regulatory scrutiny : discrimination in dividend restrictions: types of insurance that may be extending credit: use of credit reports: privacy sold: permissible investments: policy reserve matters: disclosure of credit terms: and correction of requirements: and insurance marketing practices.
They also are subject to regulations Certain US source payments to foreign persons and legislation that limit operations in certain may be subject to US withholding tax unless the jurisdictions.
For example, limitations may be placed foreign person is a qualified intermediary.
A on the amount of interest or fees that a loan may qualified intermediary is a financial intermediary bear, the amount that may be borrowed, the types of which is qualified under the Internal Revenue Code actions that may be taken to collect or foreclose and has completed the Qualified Intermediary upon delinquent loans or the information about a Withholding Agreement with the Internal Revenue customer that may be shared.
Various HSBC operations outside the US finance branch lending offices are generally licensed are qualified intermediaries.
