Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement senior executives below board level attend ef fectiveness and accountability.
The results The revised Combined Code on Corporate certain board meetings and make of this exercise were then summarised to Governance, issued by the Financial presentations on the results and strategies the board by the Chairman.
The Chairmans Reporting Council in July 2003, formally of their businesses.
All directors have per formance was evaluated by the nonapplied to the Company for the first time for access to the advice and services of the executive directors led by the Senior the year ending 31 March 2005.
As required Group Company Secretary who is Independent Director who then provided the by the Listing Rules issued by the UK Listing responsible for ensuring that board Chairman with the results of this evaluation.
Authority, this section on corporate procedures and applicable rules are governance together with the Remuneration observed.
Procedures exist to enable the The board manages the Group through Committee Report details how the Company directors to obtain independent professional board meetings and a number of has applied the principles set out in the advice in respect of their duties.
committees, each of which has detailed revised Combined Code and includes ter ms of reference and meets regularly.
The additional disclosures, where appropriate.
There is a clear division of roles and minutes of each of the committees are Throughout the year ended 31 March 2005 responsibilities between the Chairman and made available to all directors and the the board believes it has complied with the Group Chief Executive Officer, which were set board receives a verbal update from each principles and provisions recommended by out in writing and agreed by the board during committees Chair man.
the revised Combined Code, and the division the year.
The Chairman is responsible for of roles and responsibilities between the leadership of the board and ensuring a Audit Committee Chairman and the Group Chief Executive ef fective communication with shareholders The Committee comprises three Officer have been set out in writing and and the Group Chief Executive Officer is independent non-executive directors.
The agreed by the board during the year.
responsible for leading and managing the directors who served on the Committee business.
There is an equal number of during the year and at the year are: Directors independent non-executive directors and Directors and the board executive directors on the board and Duncan Nicholas Cosh FCA Chair man The Company is headed by an experienced Goldie-Morrison is the Senior Independent Duncan Goldie-Morrison board of directors consisting of a nonDirector.
With the exception of the Chairman, William Nabarro executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive who was executive Chairman until 31 July Paul Zuckerman retired 14 July 2004 Officer, three further executive directors and 2001, all the non-executive directors are four non-executive directors.
The board independent of management and considered The Committees full ter ms of reference are meets at least six times a year, with at least by the board to be free from any business or available on the Companys website, three meetings being held outside the UK.
other relationships which could inter fere with www.
com, or from the Group Company the exercise of their independence.
The board has a schedule of matters Biographies of each of the directors and specifically reserved to it for decision details of their membership of board The Audit Committee is responsible for: and approval which include, but are not committees is given on pages22 to 23. limited to: n monitoring the integrity of the Groups Board nominations are recommended to the Financial Statements and any for mal n the Groups long ter m objectives and board by the Nomination Committee under announcements relating to the Groups commercial strategy: its ter ms of reference.
In accordance with financial per for mance: n acquisitions, disposals and major the Combined Code and the Companys n reviewing the Companys internal investments: Articles of Association all directors are financial controls and risk management n the Groups annual and interim Financial subject to re-appointment by shareholders systems: Statements: at the first opportunity following their n assessing the independence, objectivity n any significant change in accounting appointment and, subsequently, must seek and ef fectiveness of the external policies or practices: re-election at least once every three years.
auditors: n any interim dividend and n developing and implementing policies on recommendation of the final dividend: New directors to the board are provided with the engagement of the external auditors n the annual operating and capital appropriate training and briefings which take for the supply of non-audit services: expenditure budgets: into account their individual qualifications n making recommendations for the n any changes to the Companys capital and experience.
All directors receive, during appointment, re-appointment and structure or its status as a listed their term of of fice, regular briefings on removal of the external auditors and company: changes and developments in the Groups approving their remuneration and ter ms n risk management strategy: and business and legislative and regulatory of engagement: n treasury policy.
changes which are relevant to the Group.
n monitoring and reviewing the ef fectiveness of the Groups internal Infor mation, including monthly management During the year the board evaluated its audit function: and accounts, is provided in a timely and regular per formance and that of its committees and n reviewing arrangements by which staff manner to directors for all meetings to individual directors.
This was done by way of may, in confidence, raise concerns enable them to exercise their judgement in a questionnaire which was completed by about possible improprieties in matters the dischar ge of their duties.
In addition each director to evaluate the boards of financial reporting or other matters.
Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 27 Corporate Governance Board and Committee attendance During the year, the Committee took the decision to outsource the Group Internal Group Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Audit function to Ernst & Y oung.
The Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee received regular reports on the work of the Internal Audit department and T otal number of meetings in the reviewed the authority, scope of work, financial year 2004 5 6 4 2 45 resources and ef fectiveness of the function.
Current directors The Ernst & Y oung representative has direct Charles Gregson 6 6 2 2 access to the Audit Committee and its Michael Spencer6 6 2 2 Chair man.
The Committee also considered the external auditors Group management Nicholas Cosh 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 3 5 letter on accounting procedures and David Gelber6 6 5 5 systems of internal financial control.
Duncan Goldie-Morrison 5 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 Stephen McDermott 6 6 5 5 During the financial year, the Committee James McNulty 5 6 2 2 3 4 4 5 reviewed the ef fectiveness of the external William Nabarro 6 6 4 4 2 2 4 4 audit process and the qualification, Jim Pettigrew6 6 5 5 expertise and resources of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the proposed audit fee and ter ms Past director of engagement for the 2004 5 audit and Paul Zuckerman 2 2 2 2 1 1 has recommended to the board that it propose to shareholders that Appointments to the Committee are made The Chair man of the Audit Committee  LLP be by the board on the recommendation of the reports on the Committees deliberations re-appointed as the Groups external Groups Nomination Committee following and any significant issues that may have auditors.
It also monitored the balance of consultation with the Chair man of the Audit arisen to the board meeting following each audit and non-audit fees to ensure that the Committee.
Minutes of each independence and objectivity of the external Committee meeting are provided to all auditors is maintained.
The board has satisfied itself that board members.
collectively the Committee possesses The Committee monitors the board policy as recent and relevant financial experience to In the financial year to 31 March 2005, the to the types of non-audit work that can and enable the Committee to function ef fectively Committee reviewed the Groups annual cannot be undertaken by the external and to dischar ge its responsibilities.
and interim Financial Statements, prior to auditors to ensure that the independence of their approval by the board.
In doing this it the external auditors is not compromised by The Committee meets four times a year ensured that accounting policies adopted, any non-audit work per for med.
Any such with the meetings coinciding with the start judgements and disclosures made in the proposed non-audit assignments, with a fee of the external audit cycle, the financial year preparation of those Financial Statements in excess of 50,000, are subject to the end and the publication of the annual and were the most appropriate to the Committees prior review and approval.
The circumstances of the Group.
part of its consideration of the annual attendance record of Committee members Financial Statements the Committee has is set out above.
Also in attendance at such In the course of the year the Committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors meetings, by invitation only, were the been kept up to date on developments in have remained independent of the Group Chair man, Group Chief Operating Officer, accounting standards and their likely impact during the financial year and continue to do Group Finance Director, Ernst & Y oung as on the Groups Financial Statements.
This so to the date of this report.
The internal auditor and representatives from has also included receiving regular updates Committee also received details from the external auditors.
The Chair man of the on the Groups preparation for the  LLP of its own Audit Committee also maintains contact introduction of International Financial independence procedures and confir mation with those attendees throughout the year.
Reporting Standards, details of which are that, in its opinion, it remained independent At the end of each Committee Meeting given in the OFR.
representatives from Ernst & Y oung as internal auditor and the external auditors Management is responsible for maintaining are given the opportunity to raise any an ef fective system of internal controls with issues, in private, without management the board being responsible for reviewing its being present.
T o assist the board in this duty, the Committee reviews the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems.
Details of the steps taken by the Committee to review the ef fectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are set out below.
28 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 The Committee also reviewed, during the provides shareholders with an opportunity Stephen McDermott year, whistleblowing arrangements within to receive infor mation on the Groups James McNulty the Group to enable employees to raise, in business per for mance and to question Philip Moyse Group Chief Risk Officer confidence, any concerns they may have.
It senior management on any business Jim Pettigrew has satisfied itself that such arrangements matters.
The Committee is responsible for The Group has an established programme recommending to the board that the b Nomination Committee of communication with its institutional Groups risk management framework, risk The Nomination Committee comprises all investors and analysts.
At the time of the appetite, risk strategy and policies are the non-executive directors and one announcement of the final and interim appropriate to the activities of the Group.
executive director: results, presentations are made to The Committee reviews the Groups risk analysts, the press and institutional exposures and ensures adherence to Group William Nabarro Chair man investors.
In addition, there are regular risk policy particularly in relation to credit, Nicholas Cosh meetings during the year subject to market and operational risk.
It also reviews Duncan Goldie-Morrison relevant regulatory constraints with major new business initiatives to ensure Charles Gregson analysts and investors to update them on that a proper consideration of risks has James McNulty developments in the Groups strategy and been undertaken at the outset.
Michael Spencer per for mance, with the Chair man and Senior Paul Zuckerman retired 14 July 2004 Independent Director being available to It is managements responsibility to operate meet investors on request.
within the Groups risk appetite and identify, The Committee recommends to the board monitor and assess the significant risks the appointments for the role of Chair man, Accountability and audit Group may be exposed to and develop Group Chief Executive Officer, executive and Directors responsibilities procedures for managing risk in line with non-executive directors.
The procedure for The directors statement regarding their board approved polices and limits.
This appointments is set out in its ter ms of responsibility for preparing the Groups includes establishing and maintaining an reference and the Committee meets as Financial Statements is set out in the adequate, sound and appropriate internal required.
The Committees full ter ms of Directors Report on page 26 and the control structure, evaluating its ef fectiveness reference are available on the Companys Independent Auditors Report regarding and promptly identifying material website, www.
com, or from the Group their reporting responsibility is detailed on weaknesses and taking corrective steps.
The Chair man of the Group Risk Committee The Committee considered the skills, Risk management reports on its deliberations to the board.
knowledge, experience and specific General attributes that it sought in candidates to As with all businesses the Group faces and e Treasury Committee join the board as Group Chief Operating manages a number of risks.
The board is The Treasury Committee, which comprises Officer and the challenges and responsible for setting the Groups risk such persons as are appointed by the board opportunities facing the Group.
This list of appetite and for ensuring that the Groups who may or may not be directors, is attributes was agreed by all the directors risk management processes are appropriate chaired by the Group Finance Director.
It and has resulted in the Committee and operating ef fectively.
It does this meets monthly and is responsible for recommending the appointment of Mark through two board committees Group Risk developing, implementing and monitoring Yallop to take on the role of Group Chief and Treasury outlined above and also Group treasury policies as approved by the Operating Officer on the retirement of David regional credit and market risk committees.
Further details on the activities of Gelber from this role.
The Committee also the Treasury Committee during 2004 5 are recommended that David Gelber become a The board has conducted an annual review provided in the OFR.
non-executive director for an initial period of of the ef fectiveness of the internal controls one year from 13 July 2005 so that the within the Group by way of an operational Relations and dialogue with shareholders board could continue to benefit from his risk assessment process.
This process The board is accountable to the Companys knowledge and experience.
involved senior business and support shareholders for the per for mance and management identifying the key operational activities of the Group and is very much c Remuneration Committee risks facing their business area, the aware of the importance of maintaining The report of the Remuneration Committee controls in place to manage, monitor and good relations and communications with all is set out on pages 32 to 40. mitigate those risks and confir mation that its shareholders.
All company those controls have been in operation announcements are posted on the investor d Group Risk Committee throughout the year.
relations section of the Companys website, The Group Risk Committee comprises: www.
com, as soon as they are Credit and market risk released and major shareholder David Gelber Chair man The Group transacts business on an agency presentations are also available.
The board Nicholas Cosh or matched principal basis.
In its role as an recognises that the Annual General Meeting George MacDonald Chief Executive Officer, inter mediary, matching buyers and sellers, UK and Europe appointed 13 July 2004 Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 29 Corporate Governance its exposure to credit and market risk is matched and do not involve the Group in Internal control limited.
However, the Group has established taking principal positions.
The board of directors is responsible for the polices and procedures to mitigate further Groups system of internal control and for The Group does, in certain very limited its exposure to both credit and market risk.
Such a system circumstances, take positions, usually in of internal control is designed to manage highly illiquid markets, primarily for Credit risk arises from the potential that a rather than eliminate the risk of failure to customer facilitation purposes and these counterparty is unable or unlikely to achieve business objectives, and can only can give rise to market risk in the event of per for m on an obligation resulting in a loss provide reasonable and not absolute any price movement.
Such risks are to the Company.
All counterparties are assurance against material misstatement or monitored and controlled by the setting of subject to regular review and assessment loss.
low cash limits and the use of hedging by regional credit of ficers who then propose arrangements where appropriate.
for approval, by the relevant credit As referred to above there is an ongoing committee, appropriate limits taking into process for identifying, evaluating and The Group Risk Committee receives regular account the creditworthiness of the managing the significant risks faced by the reports on the adherence of Group counterparty and the nature of the business Group.
This has been in place throughout companies to credit limits and of any they transact with the Group.
Limits set are the year under review and up to the date of positions arising.
based on Group set parameters deter mining approval of these Financial Statements.
the maximum loss any one subsidiary can Operational risk suffer as a result of a counterparty default.
The key elements of the internal control During the year the Group has continued to system are: review the results of the risk and controls Where appropriate, country limits are identification and assessment processes, applied to limit the exposure of a company n a comprehensive budgetary process, including resulting corrective actions within the Group to that country.
Regional with both annual and regular forecasts required to address the issues highlighted.
credit committees monitor the limits given being considered and approved by the The Group Risk Committee has considered and their utilisation and are required to board: the introduction of a loss data collection approve all excesses.
Typically, the Groups n monthly monitoring of trading results, process to supplement the risk counterparties are highly credit rated lar ge balance sheet and cash flow against identification process and to provide financial institutions.
budget and prior periods with significant validation of the probability and impact of variances being investigated and the risks identified and the ef fectiveness of Market risk can arise in those instances appropriate action taken: the controls environment in mitigating the where one or both counterparties in a n for mulation and review of specific policy probability and impact of the risks.
This matched principal transaction fail to fulfil covering credit, market, operational and next step will be introduced in London on a their obligations i. e. an initially unsettled treasury risks faced by the business: pilot basis in the second quarter of the transaction or through trade mismatches or n regular visits to Group operating financial year ending 31 March 2006 and other errors.
The risk in these situations is companies by board members and subsequently rolled out on a global basis.
restricted to short-ter m price movements in senior management: The Group Risk Committee is also the underlying stock held by the Group and n all transactions authorised in considering the introduction of process and movements in foreign exchange rates.
Any accordance with delegated authority work flow mapping across the entire such market risk arising is identified and limits approved by the board: business to ensure that all significant monitored on a daily basis.
In addition, in n regular internal audit visits to Group processes in the main business activities these circumstances, the Group may be operating companies to carry out are captured.
This will further enhance the exposed to financing risk until the trade reviews of systems and procedures and results of the risks and controls self settles.
Policies and procedures exist to compliance with Group policies: assessment and loss data collection reduce the likelihood of such trade n senior management within each region processes by identifying the risks to mismatches and, in the event that they have responsibility for the establishment processes systems supporting the main arise, the Groups policy is to close out of appropriate control frameworks within activities of the business and the controls such positions immediately or, with senior their operations to ensure compliance in place or required.
management approval, to carry them with with Group policies, procedures and an appropriate hedge in place.
They are also responsible for Treasury risk ensuring that risks within their The Groups Treasury Committee manages In some parts of the Group, opportunities businesses are identified, assessed, and monitors the Groups free cash arise to take advantage of the Groups controlled and monitored on an ongoing resources to ensure, inter alia, that any comprehensive involvement in and basis: and country or institutional risk arising from the knowledge of the markets, by acting in its n regular reports from both the external deposit of such funds is managed within interdealer broker capacity, in complex and and internal auditors on the internal Group treasury policy.
In addition, the sometimes very substantial structured control systems operating within the Treasury Committee manages the Groups transactions developed by its highly-rated Group.
exposure to foreign currency and interest counterparties.
These transactions are fully rate risk.
30 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 The board, through the Audit Committee, the US, the Groups activities are regulated has conducted an annual review of the by the Securities and Exchange ef fectiveness of the system of internal Commission.
The Group operates in other control covering all controls including countries and its operations are subject to financial, operational and compliance relevant local regulatory requirements.
controls and risk management systems.
Adherence to these regulations is monitored, where applicable, by local The Group has investments in a number of compliance of ficers who report regularly via joint ventures and associated companies.
the London Head of Compliance to the Where the Group is not directly involved in board.
The Group is monitoring the management of the investment it can developments and regulation from the EU influence, through board representation, but and the forthcoming Basle II proposals and not control the internal control systems has commented on them accordingly and present in those entities.
The boards will implement such changes as become review of the ef fectiveness of the system of necessary once those proposals are internal controls in those entities is finalised.
consequently less comprehensive than in its directly owned subsidiaries.
By order of the board Internal audit The Group has an outsourced internal audit function which undertakes reviews within Helen Broomfield the Group and provides objective assurance Group Company Secretary to the board, via the Audit Committee, on the operation and ef fectiveness of the system of internal controls within the Group and assesses compliance with such systems.
Regulation The Group is regulated on a consolidated basis by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA with the Groups UK businesses being authorised by the FSA to carry on regulated activities within the UK.
The FSA adopts a risk based approach to supervision and does this in various ways including the review of prudential returns, visits to fir ms and meetings with senior management.
In Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 31
