32 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE References in this section to the Company are to British Energy Director on 16 September 2004.
David Pryde was appointed Group plc.
The Company became the ultimate holding company of as an independent Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2004. the Group on the Restructuring Effective Date.
References to British On 5 August 2004, David Gilchrist formerly Managing Director, Energy plc are to the ultimate holding company of the Group prior to Generation resigned as a Director.
Martin Gatto resigned as interim the Restructuring Effective Date.
He remained with British Energy plc as Chief Financial Officer until 31 December 2004.
References to the post-RED trading period are to the period from the Restructuring Effective Date until 31 March 2005.
References The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each annual to the year are to the year ended 31 March 2005 and include general meeting any Director who has been appointed by the Board the post-RED trading period unless otherwise stated.
Where the since the previous annual general meeting is required to retire Company is referred to in the context of the year, that reference and may seek election, together with such other Directors so as to includes British Energy Limited unless otherwise stated.
ensure that the number nearest to but not greater than one third of the Directors for the time being stand for election or re-election.
As OVERVIEW British Energy Group plc is a newly formed company which will hold As the successor company to British Energy plc, the Company an annual general meeting for the first time this year, all Directors has sought to build on its experience of corporate governance in will require to stand for election at the forthcoming annual general formulating the practices and policies outlined below.
In order to comply with the provisions of Rule 7 of the Combined Code, all Directors will be required to seek re-election The Directors consider that during the year the Company has at least every three years.
The Companys policy is that Directors been in compliance with the requirements set out in Section 1 should retire at the first annual general meeting after their of the revised Combined Code incorporating the principles of 66th birthday.
good governance and code of best practice the Combined Code published in July 2003.
They also consider that the Company has CONDUCT OF BUSINESS complied with the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the SarbanesThe Board meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties Oxley Act as if it were a domestic US issuer to the extent that it effectively and plans to meet at least 11 times in any year.
is required to do so under the terms of the New Bonds issued in It met 32 times during the year.
There is contact amongst the connection with the Restructuring.
Directors between Board meetings as necessary to progress the Companys business.
THE BOARD MEMBERSHIP In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, the Adrian Montague held office as Chairman throughout the year.
Board has a number of matters reserved to it, including appropriate Mike Alexander served as Chief Executive until his resignation strategic, financial and organisational matters.
Following that resignation, Bill Coley, formerly considered at the Boards monthly meetings.
The Board receives an independent Non-Executive Director of the Company accepted reports covering operational, financial, safety, risk management and the position of Chief Executive.
His appointment became effective regulatory performance to assist it in identifying key issues for the on 14 April 2005 when he received the relevant documentation to business on a regular and timely basis.
Where appropriate, matters work in the UK.
The other Executive Directors are Roy Anderson, have been delegated to Board Committees, all of which have Chief Nuclear Officer and Stephen Billingham, Finance Director.
In written constitutions and terms of reference.
Further details of the addition there are six further Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies individual Directors and executive team, their roles and membership of the Directors are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Chief of the various committees are identified on pages Executive is responsible for safety throughout the Group.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company also complies with All of the Non-Executive Directors serving on the Board have held the sections of the Combined Code concerning the balance of the senior positions in other major organisations either in the UK or Board.
Throughout the year, the number of Non-Executive Directors internationally.
Each of them is involved in decision-making on was greater than the number of Executive Directors.
At the start of key issues facing the Group and collectively bring with them a wide the year the Company had three Executive and seven Non-Executive range of experience to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors of Directors in addition to the Chairman.
At the period end the the Company meet as a group from time to time without Executive Company had three Executive and six Non-Executive Directors in Directors present and from time to time also meet without the addition to the Chairman.
With the exception of Adrian Montague, Chairman present.
who held an executive office with British Energy plc temporarily for part of the financial year ending 31 March 2003 following his All Directors may obtain independent professional advice at the appointment as Executive Chairman in November 2002, all NonCompanys expense and all Directors have access to the advice Executive Directors are independent.
The Companys independent and services of Robert Armour, the Company Secretary who is Non-Executive Directors are currently Clare Spottiswoode, Pascal accountable to the Board through the Chairman on all corporate Colombani, John Delucca, Ian Harley, David Pryde and Sir Robert governance matters.
Clare Spottiswoode was the Companys Senior NonExecutive Director and Deputy Chairman throughout the period.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Remuneration Committee Report on pages 38 to 44 provides Performance evaluation of the Board, Chairman and individual further details of appointments to and resignations from the Board Directors and the effectiveness of the committee structure was during the year.
carried out during the year using a detailed questionnaire which was completed by the Board and the executive management.
A report on Roy Anderson joined the Company on 5 July 2004 and became the key findings was issued to the Board in September 2004 and a Director on 16 September 2004.
Stephen Billingham joined as our committee structure was reviewed and amended to remedy Finance Director Designate on 25 August 2004, becoming Finance certain issues identified.
33 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT generally unfavourable prices.
The Company aims to sell all planned The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies nuclear output forward and to minimise exposure to the balancing for risk and control, and management is responsible for designing, mechanism.
operating and monitoring risk and control processes which implement Board policies effectively.
In accordance with the Turnbull The risks in the wholesale market are managed through a Guidance, risk management and internal control are considered by contracting strategy that builds a portfolio of forward contracts the Board and its committees during the year.
Further details on of different lengths.
the Groups present committee structure appear below.
A sub-committee of the Board strictly monitors energy trading The risk management process operating throughout the period activities and risks which are controlled through delegated and up to the date of approval of the report was based on the authorities within an overall energy trading risk management policy.
identification, mitigation and monitoring of the key risks that There are procedures for setting limits on market and operational influence the Companys strategy and business objectives.
risks and managing credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
The Board periodically reviews the Groups business objectives and the risks and controls associated with these business objectives.
COMMITTEE STRUCTURE DURING THE PERIOD Specific categories of risk are also reviewed by appropriate The chairman of each committee reports to the Board following committees, including the Group Risk Management Committee each committee meeting on decisions taken or endorsed and GRMC and by subsidiary boards see below.
Risks reviewed by making recommendations as appropriate to the Board.
The Board the Board include: safe operation of our plant: operational risks may delegate authority to each of the committees where the subject including reliability, output, plant condition and human performance: of the delegation does not require Board approval.
The papers for the financial position of the Group: changes in energy markets: each committee are made available to all Board members, other nuclear safety and safety regulations: commercial and than those for the Remuneration Committee and the Governance environmental regulation: policy proposals by legislative bodies and Nominations Committee, which are only circulated to in the markets in which we operate: treasury and trading financial independent members or as those committees may direct.
The exposures: major contracts: and the procurement of radioactive Chief Executive reports to the Board each month on the decisions waste management services.
or recommendations of the Executive Committee.
The committee structure is intended to allow the committees to scrutinise Throughout the year the Companys reporting arrangements performance in more detail than the Board could achieve in full operated across the Groups operating subsidiaries and corporate session and so allows the Board to focus to a greater extent on functions, monitoring business performance against key strategic issues.
performance indicators and the business plan.
Risk logs identifying business risks facing the Group as a whole and particular parts of It is the Companys policy that committees are provided with the business were regularly considered at subsidiary and divisional sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
The Company may level and reported to the Groups executive, and mitigation plans make further changes to Committee structures or roles in due were established and monitored.
The Groups principal operating course in order to comply with further developments in corporate subsidiaries monitored internal control and risk mitigation governance best practice.
The current terms of reference for each throughout the period.
In particular, the boards of the UK nuclear committee are available on the Companys website.
subsidiaries Generation Boards reviewed the operation of the Companys nuclear power stations and risk and internal control BOARD COMMITTEES issues affecting those businesses.
The committee structure was carried across to the Company from British Energy plc.
The current committee structure is described The conduct of risk assessment involves senior management of all below: of the Groups business units in addition to the Executive Directors.
The results of these assessments are summarised and reported to AUDIT COMMITTEE the Board.
These risk assessments will continue to be used as part The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent Nonof the Companys evaluation of the risks it faces.
Ian Harley is Chairman and John Delucca is Deputy Chairman of the Committee.
Ian Harley and John Delucca The Generation Boards report on management and are considered to be the financial experts on the Audit Committee.
decommissioning liabilities to the Board which, in turn, requires The Audit Committee has the primary purpose of assisting the Board to approve the annual liabilities report required under the Nuclear in overseeing the integrity of the Companys financial statements, Liabilities Funding Agreement.
and the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
The Committee is also responsible for considering ELECTRICITY TRADING RISK MANAGEMENT and recommending appropriate accounting policies for the Group, Electricity trading activities predominantly relate to supporting the reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control and generation business.
The trading team, therefore, act in the main compliance procedures within the Company and ensuring that the as wholesale marketers rather than as pure financial traders, with Group complies with all statutory requirements in relation to the the principal objective of increasing the return on assets while principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the managing the market risk associated with the output of the power financial statements.
The Committee reviewed risk management stations.
processes across the Group including actions to mitigate or control key risks facing the Company.
The Committee receives reports from Under BETTA, which took effect from 1 April 2005, any mismatch both external and internal auditors in relation to matters arising between actual metered generation or demand and the notified from their work and is also responsible for encouraging and contract position is settled through the balancing mechanism at monitoring the adoption of best practice in corporate governance.
34 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee receives reports twice per year from the GRMC.
of the Groups nuclear operations.
The NPRC met 10 times during The Committee reviews the scope and results of the external audit the year.
including the auditors cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and is responsible for making recommendations to EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE the Board in relation to the appointment and independence of the Chaired by Bill Coley, the Executive Committee comprising the external auditors and their remuneration.
The Committee also senior executives, directs the business of the Group in accordance reviews the nature and extent of the non-audit services provided with delegated authorities from the Board.
The Executive Committee by the external auditors to the Group to ensure that these are meets weekly to maintain close scrutiny and management of the appropriate, and that a balance of objectivity and value for money Groups affairs, directing performance, taking corrective action and is maintained.
The Committee normally meets the day prior to ensuring the Board is kept abreast of all material events.
Board meetings and otherwise as required by the business of the Company.
The Audit Committee met 21 times during the year.
TRADING REVIEW COMMITTEE The Trading Review Committee, chaired by David Pryde, was REMUNERATION COMMITTEE established shortly after his appointment and meets every second A separate Remuneration Report containing details of the month to review hedging and risk management strategy for trading Remuneration Committee appears on pages 38 to 44. and to ensure activities are conducted within overall risk limits.
The Trading Review Committee reviews and provides advice on the GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE management and use of risk measurements and control, as well The Governance and Nominations Committee is comprised entirely as monitoring performance against strategy.
It also oversees the of Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Sir Robert Walmsley.
management and maintenance of the policies, procedures, It replaced the Nominations Committee in November 2004. authorisation and overall risk control framework which is carried The Governance and Nominations Committee is responsible out by a sub-committee, the Trading Risk Sub-Committee.
The for encouraging and monitoring the adoption of good corporate Trading Review Committee met four times during the year.
governance practice drawing on the practices and codes prevailing in the UK, US and the EU.
It reviews the Companys MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES AND SUBSIDIARY BOARDS code of conduct and ethics and compliance with this code and Throughout the year a number of executive management the Companys legal obligations generally.
Going forward the committees and subsidiary boards were used to assist the Governance and Nominations Committee will advise on the Directors in controlling the business.
These included the Generation corporate social responsibility performance of the Group.
The Boards which directed operational and safety policy in the Groups Governance and Nominations Committee also advises the Board nuclear operations.
The Chief Executive, Chief Nuclear Officer in relation to senior appointments throughout the Group.
Board and Executive Directors on the nuclear generation subsidiary appointments recommended by the Committee will be made after boards continue to direct the operational and safety policy of an appropriate search and selection process has been undertaken, our nuclear operations.
including, where appropriate, the use of external advisers to identify suitable candidates.
The Governance and Nominations Committee GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE met 10 times during the year.
The GRMC is an Executive Committee chaired by Stephen Billingham.
The GRMC meets every two months to review the SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE group-wide risk management processes of the business, maintain The Safety, Health and Environment Committee SHEC provides an overview of the risks facing the business and reports to the advice to the Board in relation to the health and safety of staff, Audit Committee twice per year.
The GRMC met six times during contractors, visitors and the general public, plant safety and the the year.
environmental performance of the Company.
It reviews key safety and environmental risks affecting the Companys business and the PENSIONS COMMITTEE actions taken to mitigate or control them.
It is chaired by Sir Robert This is an Executive Committee which monitors the management of Walmsley and also includes three independent experts as well as the two Group Pension Schemes and is chaired by Sally Smedley.
certain other Directors and senior managers of the Group.
The The chairmen of the British Energy Generation Group Trustees and meetings, which consider both site-specific and generic issues, the British Energy Combined Group Trustees are members, as are are held in rotation at the nuclear power stations with the station certain other Directors and senior managers of the Group.
The manager and site safety representatives in attendance.
The SHEC Pensions Committee reviews and advises on the policies being met four times during the year.
adopted by the trustees of these Schemes and is responsible for advising the Board and reporting to the Audit Committee on all NUCLEAR PERFORMANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE matters relating to these Schemes.
The Pensions Committee met The Nuclear Performance Review Committee NPRC considers and three times during the year.
advises the Board and the Executive Committee on issues relating to the performance of and improvements to the Groups nuclear DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE fleet including operational performance, performance improvement, This management committee was established by the Company plant reliability, preventive maintenance and materiel condition.
as part of its response to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley The NPRC reviews and advises on the implementation and direction Act.
It is chaired by the Group Financial Controller, and comprises of the Companys ongoing Performance Improvement Programme.
management level representatives of operational and corporate The Committee is chaired by Dr Pascal Colombani and its departments from throughout the Group.
Its role is to review the membership includes Sir Robert Walmsley, other Executive Directors accuracy and completeness of the Companys proposed financial and certain other senior managers with appropriate technical and certain other public statements and or reports.
The Chief Executive, the Chief Nuclear Officer and Committee met 16 times during the year.
It reports to the Audit executives of the Generation Boards will continue to have Committee, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
responsibility for and will direct the operational and safety policy 35 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The attendance of Directors at Board and committee meetings in the period is set out in the table below: Safety, Nuclear Governance Health PerRemuand and formance Trading Audit neration Nominations Environment Review Review Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of times Board and Committees met in the year 32 21 21 10 4 10 4 Adrian Montague 32 32 19 21 6 6 2 Bill Coley 29 32 8 15 11 19 8 10 9 10 3 Roy Anderson 20 20 1 3 3 Stephen Billingham 20 20 4 4 Clare Spottiswoode 25 32 11 21 20 21 4 6 4 4 Ian Harley 24 32 21 21 12 13 7 10 4 4 Pascal Colombani 25 32 3 4 8 10 John Delucca 30 32 20 21 3 4 3 4 4 David Pryde 18 22 9 12 5 6 4 4 Sir Robert Walmsley 25 32 13 21 18 21 10 10 4 4 7 10 5 Mike Alexander 30 32 4 4 6 David Gilchrist 7 7 2 2 7 Martin Gatto 11 11 Notes from the salary of some higher paid employees.
Following detailed 1 Figures in parentheses refer to the number of Board or committee meetings investigation, the individuals concerned, including two Directors of which Directors were entitled to attend during their term as a Director.
the Company, Mike Alexander and David Gilchrist were granted up 2 Bill Coley resigned from the NPRC and the Governance and Nominations until 31 March 2008 by the Companys Remuneration Committee Committee on his appointment as Chief Executive.
to repay the salary overpayments of 26,820 and 15,483 3 Appointed on 16 September 2004 respectively.
After further consideration, the Company recognised 4 Appointed on 1 September 2004 that this extended time period might constitute a breach of 5 Resigned on 20 March 2005 section 330 of the Companies Act 1985 and requested that 6 Resigned on 4 August 2004 all outstanding amounts be repaid.
Mike Alexander had repaid 7 Resigned on 16 September 2004 13,600 up to the end of July 2005.
The balance will be recovered from him as part of any payment of compensation for loss of ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE office.
David Gilchrist had repaid the full amount overpaid by There are clearly defined lines of accountability throughout the 31 March 2005.
These include strict authorisation approval and control procedures within which senior management operate.
Similarly, INVESTMENT APPROVAL the senior management team within each subsidiary or division is The approval of capital and revenue schemes above certain limits responsible for its internal financial controls.
Those management is reserved to the Board.
Other investment decisions are delegated teams operate within an overall framework determined by the for approval in accordance with authority limits.
comprehensive appraisal and monitoring procedures which apply to all material investment decisions.
REMUNERATION POLICY We permit Executive Directors to accept external non-executive BUSINESS PLANNING directorships provided they do not cause a conflict or inhibit the A comprehensive business planning and budgeting process to Directors ability to work for the Company.
Each such appointment establish plans and targets, against which performance is regularly including the details of emoluments is subject to Board approval.
monitored, is undertaken each year.
Key business risks identified During the year Mike Alexander held a non-executive directorship during the planning process are reviewed regularly throughout with Associated British Foods plc receiving remuneration of the year.
The Board receives monthly reports and management 37,500 in the year.
accounts and reviews the overall Group performance against budget and the latest forecasts for the current year.
Similarly, SECTION 330 COMPANIES ACT 1985 LOANS TO DIRECTORS each subsidiary and divisional management team meets regularly A payroll systems error was identified and subsequently rectified to monitor performance.
during the year ended 31 March 2005.
As a result of this error, personal retirement benefit contributions were not deducted in full 36 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTERNAL COMPLIANCE AND CONTROL In addition, independent auditors must report two opinions: firstly: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls on managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal and reviewing its effectiveness.
The identification of key business controls over financial reporting, and secondly, on their own risks, the evaluation of their financial and other implications and assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over formulation of policies to manage such risks is the responsibility financial reporting.
This system is designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can provide only reasonable and As a result of the New Bond terms, we will be reporting under not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Section 404 for the year ended 31 March 2005, two years earlier than we are required to as a foreign private issuer.
The Board assessed the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls as of the date of this Report.
In making this assessment, We have reviewed and tested our internal controls over financial the Companys management used the criteria set forth by the reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway requirements.
A dedicated implementation team has been formed Commission COSO in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
which is led by a senior member of our finance department, who regularly attends Audit Committee meetings to provide status Compliance with the Groups internal financial, risk management reports as well as having regular dialogue with the Chairman of the and other controls is monitored by a number of methods including Audit Committee.
The implementation team includes representatives management reviews and self-certification reports from Directors from the Companys internal audit department.
The Company has and senior officers of each of the key subsidiaries or divisions.
also appointed independent external consultants to work with the The Groups internal audit function is responsible for providing implementation team to ensure that its approach to compliance assurance on the performance of the internal financial and risk with Section 404 is thorough and robust.
They also provide the management control system and computer operations and reports Company with regular advice on how interpretation of this new regularly to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit work is focused regulation is developing in the US and the rest of the world to on the areas of highest risk as agreed and prioritised by the Audit ensure that we are able to adapt our approach to emerging Committee.
The scope of work, authority and resources of the practice as necessary.
internal audit function are reviewed by the Audit Committee at least annually.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company will publish a separate Corporate Social Responsibility Steps are being taken to embed internal controls and risk Report on its website later this year.
This will include details of management further into the operations of the business and to our record on safety and environmental performance.
Further explore areas of improvement which come to management and information on our approach to corporate social responsibility the Boards attention.
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT We have implemented a procedure to allow staff to raise serious The Sarbanes-Oxley Act introduced new and enhanced standards concerns, suspicions of fraud or money laundering, suspicious of corporate governance and business and financial disclosure for accounting treatment or practices, and any other suspicious or noncompanies with securities registered pursuant to the US Securities compliant activity which an employee may observe on a confidential Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act.
In relation to allegations of serious fraud this procedure these requirements apply to the Company as a non-US company involves direct referral to an external independent organisation with securities registered under the Exchange Act.
Examples of which will record concerns and determine the appropriate person these standards include the requirement that our Chief Executive to investigate them and recommend any action required to address and Finance Director certify the accuracy of the disclosure, the resulting issues.
efficacy of the internal controls and other matters relating to the preparation of our annual report filed with the SEC: changes to the GOING CONCERN role and composition of the Audit Committee: and rules relating to The Board considers it appropriate to prepare these financial internal controls.
Furthermore, under the terms of the New Bonds, statements on a going concern basis because, having reviewed issued pursuant to the Restructuring, we have agreed to prepare the Groups cash flow position and outlook, the Directors have a quarterly reports on Form 6-K and annual reports on Form 20-F reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have containing the information required to be disclosed therein as if we adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable were a domestic US issuer and not a foreign private issuer.
We future as a going concern.
In addition, the Company has not been comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as if we were a domestic US liquidated nor is it ceasing to trade.
In previous reporting periods issuer to the extent that we are required to do so under the terms the Directors have reported that the validity of this assumption of the New Bonds and only to the extent that it does not conflict depended on the fulfilment of the conditions of the Restructuring with or violate any law, rule or regulation of the UK including, but within the timescales envisaged or required and the continuation of not limited to, the Companies Act 1985, or any code or other the restructuring and standstill arrangements with certain creditors requirement including, but not limited to, the Combined Code and financial assistance from the Secretary of State pursuant to and the listing standards of the UKLA.
the credit facility provided by the Government prior to Restructuring and there being no material deterioration in the Groups cash flow The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act position, performance or outlook.
Following completion of the Section 404, adopted rules requiring public companies to include Restructuring on 14 January 2005, the fundamental uncertainties a report by management in their annual filing with the SEC that associated with the Restructuring, which had existed prior to this contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of date, have been removed.
internal controls over financial reporting.
37 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND STAKEHOLDERS The Company recognises the importance of maintaining an ongoing relationship with its shareholders and stakeholders.
It intends to use its annual general meeting on 15 September 2005 as an opportunity to communicate with shareholders, and at that meeting a business presentation will be made by the Chief Executive and by other Directors, if appropriate.
It is the Companys policy that all Directors are available to answer shareholders questions at the annual general meeting.
In addition, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Finance Director and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will meet with the Companys principal shareholders on request to discuss relevant issues when they arise.
The Company seeks to ensure that the Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders through various routes including meetings and analysts or brokers briefings.
The Company Secretarys office responds to numerous letters from shareholders on various issues throughout the year.
Information sent to shareholders and copies of all Company announcements are made available on the Companys website www.
The notice of British Energy plcs annual general meeting last year, held on 5 August 2004, was dispatched to shareholders not less than 20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes received were made available in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
ROBERT ARMOUR, COMPANY SECRETARY 27 JULY 2005
