BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Financial Statements PAGE 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance in Appointment and resignation of Directors its management of the affairs of the Group and when accounting to shareholders.
Martin Stewart resigned as a Director and CFO of the Company on 4 August 2004.
This section of the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Code Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a Director and CFO of the Company on 16 August of Best Practice in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined 2004.
Code, issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003.
Andrew Higginson was appointed as a Director of the Company on 1 September Throughout the year ended 30 June 2005, the Company has been in compliance with 2004. the Combined Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except for the composition of the Audit Committee which, for a period of time, was not in A schedule of matters reserved for the full Boards determination and or approval compliance, and has been in compliance from 1 September 2004, and the annual is in place, which includes: re-election of Directors who have served for more than nine years on the Board.
These are more fully discussed within this report.
approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of the Group: The Board approval of the interim and final results: The Board currently comprises fifteen Directors, made up of two Executive Directors approval of any dividend policy: and thirteen Non-Executive Directors.
A majority of eight Directors are determined changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including reductions of capital to be independent under the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Non-Executive and share buy-backs: Directors of the Company bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of Groups affairs, and they carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The related commitments or arrangements which, whether budgeted or unbudgeted, Independent Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element and involves or could reasonably involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of a foundation for good corporate governance, although all Directors are equally amounts equal to or in excess of 100 million in aggregate value: accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Short the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any related biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 26 to 27, which also clearly series of commitments or arrangements with News Corporation, any of its identify those Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent within the subsidiaries, or a related party which involves, or could reasonably involve, the meaning of the Combined Code.
payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 25 million in aggregate value.
The roles of the Chairman, Rupert Murdoch, and CEO, James Murdoch, are separate and have been since the Company obtained its listing in 1994.
Lord Rothschild holds The Board has also delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, notably the position of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
the Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Governance & Nominations Committees, as set out below.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers several days in advance The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year to review appropriate of Board and Committee meetings and also have access to the advice and services strategic, operational and financial matters as required.
During the financial year, of the Company Secretary.
In addition, the Board members have access to external one of these meetings was held over two days when the Board met to review the professional advice at the Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors serve for an future strategy and direction of the Group.
Attendance of the current Directors at initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders following appointment, Board and Committee meetings is set out in the table below: subsequent re-election by shareholders, and Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of Directors.
In addition, reappointment for a further term is not automatic, ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS but may be mutually agreed.
All of the Directors are required to retire and offer Corporate themselves for re-election at least once in every three years.
Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations The Board notes that provision A.
7.2 of the Combined Code states that Directors who have been serving on the Board for more than nine years should retire and stand for NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN YEAR77 4 2 re-election at each AGM.
The Company does not currently comply with this provision, as such Directors who were previously elected by the shareholders prior to the DIRECTOR introduction of this provision shall only be subject to annual re-election from the Rupert Murdoch, Chairman 7 expiry of the current term of office that the Director is serving.
James Murdoch, CEO 7 Jeremy Darroch, CFO 6 A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow Chase Carey 7 prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by the CEO and comprises David DeVoe 6 the CFO and other senior executives Senior Executives from within the Group.
David Evans 6 4 Nicholas Ferguson 4 2 Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive an induction tailored Andy Higginson 6 6 to their individual requirements.
The induction process involves a meeting with all Allan Leighton 7 7 of the Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their Jacques Nasser 6 3 understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
The Gail Rebuck 7 7 Directors are also provided with copies of the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures.
Lord Rothschild 7 2 Arthur Siskind 6 2 Directors regularly receive additional information from the Company between Board Lord St John of Fawsley 7 meetings, including a monthly report which is sent to all of the Directors updating Lord Wilson of Dinton 7 2 them on the performance of the Group.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Financial Statements PAGE 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular issues are Both Andrew Higginson and Jeremy Darroch were appointed as Directors during the arranged.
For example, over the last financial year the Audit Committee has received year.
Their nomination and recruitment to the Board was completed in 2004 and was specific briefings on the introduction of IFRS and its likely impact on future reporting explained in the 2004 Corporate Governance Report.
There have been no by the Company.
The Board has also received a briefing on the new Disclosure and nominations to the Board during the year.
Listing Rules which became effective on 1 July 2005.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee led the evaluation of the During the year, the Directors carried out an evaluation of the performance of the Board that was completed during the year, the results of which are discussed earlier Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
The process was carried out internally in this report.
and was led by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee, with the assistance of the Company Secretary and members of the legal department.
The The Committee also reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and evaluation confirmed that the Board was satisfied with the Boards overall recommended to the Board that there be no changes to the independent status of performance but identified some areas for improvement which are being addressed.
the current Non-Executive Directors as disclosed in the previous year.
Directors biographies appear on pages 26 to 27, which clearly set out those Non-Executive During the year, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director held a formal Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent.
meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, without Executive Directors present, to discuss the functioning of the Board.
As a result of this meeting, certain changes to The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee also reviewed the letter of the operation of the Board and its Committees will be implemented.
There was also appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors who have a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to evaluate his been appointed to the Board of Directors since the introduction of the Combined Code performance led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
in 2003, have signed letters of appointment with the Company.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is finalising the form of a letter of appointment Following this years review the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and with a view to its distribution to all other Non-Executive Directors for signature.
Board have confirmed that all Directors standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Board Committees Directors, has clearly defined terms of reference as laid down by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee composition of the Audit Committee is currently Allan Leighton Chairman, Gail The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, is principally concerned with the Rebuck and Andrew Higginson who joined the Board on 1 September 2004.
Until Mr remuneration in all its forms of main Board Executive Directors and other Senior Higginson joined the Committee, its composition did not comply with the Combined Executives who report directly to the CEO, as well as the review of the design and Code.
The CFO and representatives from the external auditor and the internal auditor structure of the Groups package of employee incentives.
The Remuneration Committee attend meetings at the request of the Audit Committee.
It is also usual practice for has clearly defined terms of reference, meets at least twice a year, and takes advice the CEO to attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other finance and business risk from the CEO and independent consultants as appropriate in carrying out its work.
executives attend meetings from time to time and the Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports regularly to the The members of the Remuneration Committee are Jacques Nasser Chairman, David Board on its activities.
David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to Evans and Nicholas Ferguson, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as in compliance with the Combined Code.
observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
Following Mr Higginsons appointment, all three members of the Audit Committee are independent for the purposes of the Rupert Murdoch and David DeVoe have a standing invitation to attend meetings of Combined Code and rule 10.
3 b 1 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers members have wide ranging experience to bring to the work of the Audit Committee.
only and in a non-voting capacity.
The Audit Committee met seven times during the year.
Its duties include: The Report on Directors Remuneration can be found on pages 32 to 38.
In accordance making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Report on Directors reappointment and removal of the external auditors and discussing with the Remuneration will be put forward for an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
external auditors the nature, scope and fees for the external auditors work: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the approval, or Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee any amendment to, the quarterly, half year and annual financial statements of the The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Wilson of Group: Dinton and its other members are Lord Rothschild and Arthur Siskind.
The Corporate reviewing and approving the Groups US Annual Report on Form 20-F prior Governance & Nominations Committee met twice during the year.
Its main duties to its filing: include: reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: the identification and nomination, for approval by the Board, of candidates to fill reviewing the Groups treasury policies: Board vacancies as they arise: reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal audit function: the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to the Board, taking into monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: consideration the present balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the approving non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Board: the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and to News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, is a major recommend any changes to the Board or succession planning: shareholder in the Group.
The Audit Committee receives, on a quarterly basis, a the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out clearly what is expected schedule of all transactions between companies within the News Corporation Group of new appointees to the Board, in terms of time commitment, term of office and and the Group, and any other related party transactions, showing all transactions committee service as well as their duties and liabilities as a Director, including which have been entered into during the year and which cumulatively exceed details of the Companys Corporate Governance policies and Directors & Officers 100,000 in value.
Liability Insurance Cover: the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable Codes and other requirements of Corporate Governance.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Financial Statements PAGE 31 Furthermore, Audit Committee approval is required for the entering into by the The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or criteria which need to be met and the internal approval mechanisms required to be arrangements with News Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or any other related completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by the party which involves or could reasonably involve the payment or receipt by the Group external auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
of amounts equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not exceeding 25 million in aggregate value with News Corporation.
Any transaction in excess of 25 million in The Audit Committee is aware that the non-audit fees incurred with Deloitte & aggregate value must be submitted to the Audit Committee and, if approved by the Touche LLP are considerably in excess of the audit fees.
The principal reason for this Audit Committee, must also be submitted to the full Board for approval.
is that the Group currently receives services from Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of an ongoing CRM system development project.
The Audit Committee reviews Internal control regularly the non-audit work provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP, and has noted that, The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups in relation to CRM, it would have a disruptive effect on the final delivery of the system systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their if Deloitte & Touche LLP personnel were to be withdrawn prior to completion of the effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, project.
The Audit Committee further notes that those members of Deloitte & Touche the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not LLP who work on the project are completely separate from the Deloitte & Touche LLP absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for audit team and also are not involved in the development of any of the financial identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has systems within the project.
The Audit Committee has noted that the Group is been established, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on committed to withdrawing Deloitte & Touche LLP personnel.
internal control issued in September 1999.
This process has been in place for the whole of the year ended 30 June 2005 and up to the date on which the financial For the year ended 30 June 2005, the Audit Committee has discussed the matter of statements were approved.
audit independence with Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups external auditors, and has received and reviewed confirmation in writing that, in Deloitte & Touche LLPs The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the professional judgement, Deloitte & Touche LLP is independent within the meaning operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit year and this review has been carried out for the year ended 30 June 2005 and up engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
The Audit Communication with shareholders Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups internal audit team The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders in order to ensure and the external auditors.
that the objectives of both the Group and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts There is a comprehensive budgeting process, and the annual budget, which is takes place each year.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and fund regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by the Board.
Risk assessment and managers following the half year and full year results of the Company, conference evaluation take place as an integral part of this process.
Performance is monitored calls are held with analysts following the announcement of the first quarter and third against budget through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
Monthly reports on quarter results and presentations are made during the year to overseas performance are provided to the Board and the Group reports to shareholders each shareholders.
During the year, various members of the Board have met with quarter.
Each area of the Group carries out risk assessments of its operations and institutional shareholders and representative bodies, in the continuation of open ensures that the key risks are addressed.
A Risk Management Committee, chaired dialogue between the Board and its shareholders.
by the CFO and comprising Senior Executives, reviews the management of risks in all areas of the Group on a cyclical basis.
The results of the Risk Management The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors Committees review are integrated into the budgeting and forecasting process and and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
are integrated into the internal audit planning.
All members of the Board are encouraged to attend the meeting.
Nicholas Ferguson was unable to attend the 2004 AGM due to prior commitments that had been The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the arranged prior to his appointment to the Board.
Groups systems of internal control and risk management to the Groups operating management and to the Audit Committee.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief rsum of the Companys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
The Company, in accordance with the Combined Use of external auditors Code, announces the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the AGM.
The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and nonaudit services, which categorises such services between: Directors responsibilities The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 39. those services which the auditors are prohibited from providing: those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and those services for which the specific approval of the Audit Committee is required before the auditors are permitted to provide the service.
