Directors responsibility and corporate governance 111 Introduction Governance highlights and achievements Investec operates under a Dual Listed Companies DLC Aag - CA Ratings reaffirms extremely sound corporate structure, which requires compliance with the corporate and governance rating accounting regulations of the UK and South Africa.
Review on compliance with revised London Combined Code While the board is responsible for the overall process and Ernst & Young LLP conducted a comprehensive review of our structure of our corporate governance, each business area and compliance with the 2003 revised London Combined Code of all employees worldwide are also responsible for adherence to Corporate Governance during the period under review.
The good corporate governance practices.
board considered the recommendations arising from the review and implemented measures to take these In formulating our governance framework, the board is recommendations forward.
committed to applying leading governance practices in a pragmatic way, so as to: Sustainability engagement process Promote informed and sound decision making.
We embarked on the initial phase of a comprehensive Protect our brand.
The aim of this process is to Mitigate against reputational impacts.
obtain a broad understanding of the issues that are of material Support the trust and confidence of stakeholders.
interest to stakeholders regarding our sustainability Lead to effectiveness and efficiency.
We also hope to gain an understanding of their Enhance the capital market's perception of us.
future expectations regarding engagement, and ensure that we Enable legal compliance.
provide for these interests and expectations in our sustainability strategy and reporting processes.
Our values and philosophies form the framework against which behaviour, practices and activities are measured, to Inclusion in sustainability indices assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values We were included in the JSE Socially Responsible Investment require directors and employees to conduct themselves with SRI Index for the second consecutive year.
integrity, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust.
Reporting awards We continued to receive recognition for our ongoing Accordingly, sound corporate governance is implicit in our commitment to provide timeous, detailed and relevant values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure disclosure to stakeholders and were rated in the excellent and the structures designed to formalise oversight of and to category just outside the top 10 of the top 100 listed ensure that the values remain embedded in all businesses and companies on the JSE in terms of the Ernst & Young LLP processes.
We continue to refine both these structures, and a Excellence in Financial Reporting Awards.
written Statement of Values, which serves as our Code of Ethics and has always been a pillar of our culture.
We were awarded first place for our remuneration practices in the 2004 South African Deloitte Good Governance Awards.
Directors responsibility and corporate governance Governance organisation The governance practices can be depicted as follows: Board of Directors Investec plc and Investec Limited Nomination Committee Audit Committees Board Risk Review Committee and Sub-Committees Remuneration Committee DLC Capital Committee Directors Affairs Committee Executive Risk Review Forum Investec Bank Limited Group Credit Committee ALCO Committees Internal Audit Compliance Group Market Risk Forum Group Deal Forum Operational Risk Forums Legal Risk Forum Country Risk Forum Risk Management Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities 113 Our financial statements were prepared on the going concern Board statement basis, taking into consideration: Corporate governance practices.
The board is of the view that Investec complied with the Accounting policies adopted.
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice The nature and complexity of our business.
contained in section 1 of the London Combined Code 2003 The risks we assume.
as well as the South African King ll Code of Corporate Key business and control processes in operation.
Practices and Conduct King ll during the period under The operation of board committee support structures.
review, except as follows: Operational soundness.
King ll - Chairman The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the The Chairman of the board is not considered to be group, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that independent, but has distanced himself from any executive there are adequate resources to support the group on a going authority and status, thus enhancing his status as a nonconcern basis over the next year.
London Combined Code and King II - Independence At least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should Board of directors comprise non-executive directors determined by the board Role and responsibilities to be independent.
During the period under review, using these guidelines as a basis, only seven out of the fifteen The board is responsible for reviewing and guiding corporate board members, excluding the Chairman are considered to strategy, through the establishment of key policies and be independent.
Notwithstanding these guidelines, the board objectives, understanding the key risks we face, and is of the view that all of the non-executive directors are determining our risk tolerance and the processes in operation independent and promote the interests of stakeholders.
Further information is provided on pages 114 to 115.
The board has defined the limits of delegated authority and is London Combined Code - Audit Committee ultimately responsible for assessing and managing risk policies The board considers that the majority of the members of and philosophies: overseeing major capital expenditures, the Audit Committee have suitable financial expertise.
acquisitions and disposals: approving the establishment of However, the board recognised the requirement for the businesses: and approving the introduction of new products appointment of an independent non-executive director with and services.
recent and relevant UK financial experience with a view to appointing that director to the Investec plc Audit In fulfilling its responsibilities, the board is supported by Committee.
management, who are required to implement the plans and strategies approved by the board.
The board monitors Other international business units operate in accordance with management's progress on an ongoing basis.
the governance recommendations of their jurisdictions, but with clear reference at all times to group values and culture.
Furthermore, the board, directly or through its subcommittees: The view of the board is based on the practices below, which Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of our were in operation during the period under review.
performance, through a comprehensive system of financial and non-financial monitoring, involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting and management Financial reporting and going concern strategic and operational updates.
Approves the annual budgets and business plans.
The directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and codes of business practice.
Investec Limited consolidated financial statements, accounting Monitors our communication with all stakeholders.
policies and the information contained in the Annual Report.
Identifies and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators.
In undertaking this responsibility, the directors are supported Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing effectiveness of our internal systems of control.
the significant risks we face.
This process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and Annual Report and financial statements.
The process is judgement in pursuit of our strategic goals and objectives to implemented by management and independently monitored achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity for us.
for effectiveness by the Audit, Risk and other sub-committees of the board, which are referred to below.
Directors responsibility and corporate governance Composition, structure and process Independence Membership The board conducted a rigorous assessment of the independence of the non-executive directors, having regard to In terms of the DLC arrangements, the boards of Investec plc the tests set out in the London Combined Code and the and Investec Limited are identical and manage Investec as if it South African King II report.
While these codes contain were a unified economic enterprise.
At the end of the period differing tests of independence, an overarching consideration under review, the boards, excluding the Chairman, comprised for the board is whether a director is independent of four executive directors and eleven non-executive directors.
management and any business or other relationship that could As set out below, the board concluded that seven of the nonmaterially interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered executive directors are independent in terms of the London or independent judgement by the director or the director's Combined Code and King II.
Biographical details of the ability to act in our best interests.
A summary of the factors directors are set out on pages 150 to 151. the board takes into account in determining the independence of directors is set out below.
The names of the directors, the year of their appointment, their independence status and whether they will retire and seek re-election at the 2005 annual general meeting, are set out in the table below.
Name Date of appointment Independent Last elected Retiring and Investec Investec seeking plc Limited re-election in 2005 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 26 June 02 06 Oct 86 2003 No B Kantor Managing Director 26 June 02 08 Jun 87 2003 No GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 03 Jul 02 03 Jul 02 2004 No A Tapnack 01 Jul 02 01 Jul 02 2004 No Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 26 Jun 02 01 Jan 94 No 2004 N o SE Abrahams 26 Jun 02 21 Oct 96 Yes 2004 No GFO Alford 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2004 No CA Carolus 18 Mar 05 18 Mar 05 Yes Recently appointed Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2003 Yes GMT Howe 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2003 Yes fide Jowell 26 Jun 02 01 Jan 89 No 2003 No IR Kantor 26 Jun 02 30 Jul 80 No 2004 No Sir C Keswick 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2002 Yes MP Malungani 26 Jun 02 26 June 02 No 2002 Yes PRS Thomas 26 Jun 02 29 Jun 81 Yes 2003 Yes F Titi 30 Jan 04 30 Jan 04 No 2004 No Note: The board of Investec Group Limited now Investec Limited was reconstituted in terms of the implementation of our DLC structure in July 2002.
In terms of providing information on the date that directors are appointed to the Investec Limited board, it would be misleading, in the case of those directors who were members of the Investec Group Limited board, to indicate that they have only been directors since the date of implementing the DLC structure.
As a result, for those directors concerned, the dates of appointment reflect the date that they were first appointed to the Investec Group Limited board.
John Abell passed away in May 2004.
115 The Chairman balance of executive and non-executive directors is such that The Chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be no one person or group can dominate the board processes.
At the time of the Chairman's appointment, his The board believes that it functions effectively and its duties included promoting the group and introducing clients performance is evaluated annually.
but excluded making day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He The board considers that the skills, knowledge, experience and was also included in various management incentive and share attributes of the directors are appropriate with regard to their ownership schemes.
For these reasons, he is not considered by responsibilities and our activities.
The directors bring a range of the board to be independent in accordance with the London skills to the board, including: Combined Code and King II.
The Chairman has however International and operational experience.
distanced himself from any executive authority, thus enhancing Understanding of the economics of the sectors that we his status as a non-executive director.
Knowledge of the regulatory environments that we operate Relationships and associations in.
Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, Investec's The skills and experience profile of the board is reviewed Managing Director.
Fani Titi and Peter Malungani are the regularly, to ensure an appropriate and relevant board chairmen of Tiso Group and Peu Group Proprietary Limited composition.
respectively, companies that have a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction A comprehensive review by Ernst & Young LLP of our concluded in 2003 in light of the Financial Sector Charter in compliance with the London Combined Code, as well as South Africa.
Donn Jowell is Chairman of Jowell Glynn Marais internal assessments of our compliance with King II, Inc, the South African legal advisors to Investec Limited.
The recommended certain actions regarding the composition of board concluded that as a result of these relationships, Messrs the board and its committees.
In particular, the board Kantor, Titi, Malungani and Jowell could not be considered, in recognised the requirement for the appointment of an terms of the London Combined Code and King II, to be independent non-executive director with recent and relevant independent.
UK financial experience, as well as additional skills identified by the board, with a view to appointing that director to the Attendance at management meetings Investec plc Audit Committee.
Accordingly, throughout the As part of the review conducted by Ernst & Young LLP on our period under review, members of the Nomination Committee compliance with the London Combined Code, it was noted interviewed suitable candidates.
This process is ongoing and that Sam Abrahams regularly attended, by invitation, certain the committee is reviewing the feasibility of appointing an management committees of Investec Limited.
The board external search consultancy to assist in the identification of considers Mr Abrahams' attendance at these committees, further candidates.
which are not decision making forums, to be desirable in terms of developing an understanding of the day to day issues facing Board and directors' performance evaluation the business, thereby allowing Mr Abrahams to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as a member of the board and The Ernst & Young LLP review resulted in a number of Chairman of the Investec DLC Audit Committee.
The board recommendations and action plans in relation to director therefore concluded that Mr Abrahams retains independence performance review.
These recommendations were carried forward into a revised, Tenure detailed questionnaire that is completed by each director on The board does not believe that any director has served on matters relevant to the board as a whole, its committees and the board for a period which could materially interfere with each director's performance including the performance of the the director's ability to act in our best interests.
This process is followed up with individual conclusion, the board notes that Peter Thomas has been an interviews.
The questionnaire is based on sound practices and Investec director for more than nine years.
Notwithstanding recognised codes of corporate governance.
The Chairman of this, the board concluded that Mr Thomas retains both financial the board participates in the evaluation process.
The results of independence and independence of character and judgement.
the evaluation process are reported to the board by the Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
Appropriate action Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of is taken to address any concerns identified in the evaluation directors process.
Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in the London Combined Code and King ll, the board is of the view that the majority of the non-executive directors are independent of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The Directors responsibility and corporate governance Terms of appointment Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Non-executive directors are provided with a letter of The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief appointment on appointment.
As a result of revisions to the Executive Officer are set out in writing, clearly defined and London Combined Code, the standard letter of appointment have board approval.
The Chairman leads the board and is was reviewed, and revised letters of appointment were issued responsible for ensuring that the board receives accurate, to the non-executive directors.
The letters of appointment set timely and clear information to ensure that the directors can out, among other things, the expected time commitment of perform their duties effectively.
non-executive directors, details of our policy on obtaining independent advice and, where appropriate, details of the There were no changes to the Chairmans external board committees of which the non-executive director is a directorships during the period under review.
We have a policy that insures directors against Chairman's external directorships are set out on page 150. certain liabilities they may incur in carrying out their duties.
The board does not consider that the Chairman's commitments interfere with him performing his responsibilities Induction and training to Investec.
The board is satisfied that the Chairman makes sufficient time available to effectively serve Investec.
On appointment, directors are provided with an induction programme tailored to the needs of each appointee.
A The board has not appointed a Deputy Chairman.
programme of formal presentations to the directors on regulatory and governance matters was implemented and, as Senior Independent Director part of the directors' ongoing development, the Company Secretary liaises with the directors to source relevant seminars John Abell, the former Senior Independent Director, passed and conferences which directors attend, funded by Investec.
Sir Chips Keswick was appointed Senior Independent Director on 7 July 2004.
The Senior Independent Independent advice Director is available to address any concerns or questions from shareholders.
Through the senior independent director, individual directors are entitled to seek professional independent advice on Company Secretaries matters related to the exercise of their responsibilities, funded by Investec.
Richard Vardy is the Company Secretary of Investec plc and Selwyn Noik of Investec Limited.
They are responsible for the flow of information to the board and its committees and for Remuneration ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries, Details of the directors' remuneration are set out in the whose appointment and removal are a matter for the board.
Remuneration Report on pages 139 to 146.
Les Penfold was appointed as global head of Company Secretarial to coordinate and drive the group's secretarial function.
117 Board meetings Board committees The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited met The board is supported by specialist committees, as follows: six times during the year.
Three board meetings were held in DLC Audit Committee the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements Investec plc Audit Committee of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc - Audit sub-committee and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum UK and South Africa respectively.
Investec Limited Audit Committee - Audit sub-committee The Chairman is responsible for setting the agenda for each - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum meeting, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and Board Risk Review Committee Company Secretaries.
A comprehensive information pack on - Executive Risk Review Forum matters to be considered by the board are provided to the - Group Credit Committee directors in advance.
- Asset and Liability Committees - Group Market Risk Forum The non-executive directors met during the period under - Group Deal Forum review in the absence of the executive directors.
Details of - Operational Risk Forums directors' attendance at board meetings are shown in the - Legal Risk Forum table below.
- Country Risk Forum Directors Affairs Committee South Africa only Re-election of board members Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee All directors are subject to re-election at the first annual DLC Capital Committee general meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of Association of Investec plc and These committees have specific terms of reference, Investec Limited, at least one third of the directors will retire appropriately skilled members, independent non-executive at each annual general meeting.
Retiring directors are subject director membership, senior management participation and to an assessment of their performance.
Biographical details of access to specialist advice when necessary.
the directors standing for re-election at the 2005 annual general meeting are on pages 150 to 151.
Investec plc and Investec Limited - combined Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent board held during the year attended during the year Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 6 6 B Kantor Managing Director 6 6 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 6 6 A Tapnack 6 4 Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 6 6 No SE Abrahams 6 6 Yes GFO Alford 6 6 Yes CA Carolus appointed 18 March 2005 appointed 18 March 2005 Yes H Fukuda OBE 6 6 Yes GMT Howe 6 6 Yes fide Jowell 6 6 No IR Kantor 6 6 No Sir C Keswick 6 5 Yes MP Malungani 6 4 No PRS Thomas 6 5 Yes F Titi 6 6 No Note: John Abell passed away in May 2004.
Directors responsibility and corporate governance Overseeing our external audit process in the review of Audit Committees reports and accounts.
Considering the external audit scope, fees and audit findings.
In terms of our DLC structure, the board has mandated Reviewing Internal Audit plans, reports, capacity and authority to the Investec plc Audit Committee and the capability, and the reliance by the external auditors on the Investec Limited Audit Committee to be the audit committee work and findings of Internal Audit.
A DLC Audit Committee was Reviewing non-audit services provided by our external also created to assist the board with matters common to auditors.
Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Focusing on our compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the relevant listing requirements.
Role and responsibilities Implementing measures to maintain effective systems of The responsibilities of the Audit Committees include: internal financial control and for reporting non-financial Reviewing and making recommendations for the board's operating data.
approval of our combined consolidated and individual company reports and financial statements and other Most members of the Audit Committee have suitable financial published financial reporting documents.
Reviewing the appropriateness of the combined group's and individual companies' accounting policies and their application.
Membership and attendance Details of membership, relevant qualifications and experience as well as attendance at Audit Committee meetings are shown below.
Number of Number of meetings held meetings attended Investec DLC Audit Committee during the year during the year Independent Qualifications and experience SE Abrahams Chairman 3 3 Yes FCA CA SA - Mr SE Abrahams is a former international partner and South African Managing Partner of Arthur Andersen GFO Alford 3 3 Yes BSc Econ FCIS FIPD MSI - Mr GFO Alford is a former head of Private Banking and Head of Personnel at Kleinwort Benson Group GMT Howe 1 1 Yes MA Hons - Mr GMT Howe is a former Managing Partner of Clifford Chance LLP and Director and Group General Counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd fide Jowell 3 3 No B Com LLB - Mr fide Jowell is Chairman of and a consultant to Jowell Glyn & Marais Inc, the South African legal advisers to Investec Limited Sir C Keswick 3 2 Yes Sir Chips Keswick is a former Chairman of Hambros Bank Limited and Hambros PLC and a former director of Anglo American plc 119 Number of Number of meetings held meetings attended Investec plc Audit Committee during the year during the year Independent Qualifications and experience SE Abrahams Chairman 3 3 Yes Refer opposite GFO Alford 3 3 Yes Refer opposite GMT Howe 3 3 Yes Refer opposite Sir C Keswick 3 3 Yes Refer opposite Number of Number of Investec Limited Audit meetings held meetings attended Committee during the year during the year Independent Qualifications and experience SE Abrahams Chairman 3 3 Yes Refer opposite GFO Alford 3 3 Yes Refer opposite GMT Howe 3 3 Yes Refer opposite fide Jowell 3 3 No Refer opposite Sir C Keswick 3 3 Yes Refer opposite PRS Thomas 3 2 Yes CA SA - Mr PRS Thomas is a chartered accountant and former Managing Director of The Unisec Group Limited SE Abrahams was appointed DLC, Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committee Chairman on 12 October 2004. fide Jowell was Chairman of the Investec DLC and Investec Limited Audit Committee until 12 October 2004.
For an overview of the factors leading the board to conclude that fide Jowell is not independent, please refer to page 115.
GMT Howe has only been a member of the DLC Audit Committee since 24 November 2004.
Note: PRS Thomas holds a white card for the Investec DLC and Investec plc Audit Committees.
fide Jowell holds a white card for the Investec plc Audit Committee.
Audit Sub-Committees Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum Audit sub-committees for Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums have been have been established to provide an opportunity for senior established for Investec plc and Investec Limited and their management of the business divisions, who do not attend the principal operating subsidiaries.
The Audit and Compliance main Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committee Implementation Forums are attended by key executive meetings, to meet with the control functions and to provide directors and heads of risk and control functions.
Noninput with regard to the control environment.
The members of executive directors attend by invitation.
The purpose of this the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees have forum is to monitor and report on the implementation of white cards to attend these meetings and as a matter of recommendations and other matters that the relevant Audit practice, at least one non-executive member generally does so.
Committee considers important and to facilitate the timely escalation, response and understanding of risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The forum performs a key role in enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forum also supports and provides important insight to the Audit Committees.
Finally, the forum acts as a filter, enabling the Audit Committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
Directors responsibility and corporate governance Remuneration Committee Role and responsibilities Details of the role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 128 to 129.
Membership and attendance Details of membership and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are shown below.
Number of meetings Number of meetings Remuneration Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent GFO Alford Chairman 7 7 Yes GMT Howe 7 6 Yes Sir C Keswick 7 5 Yes Nomination Committee Role and responsibilities The Nomination Committee is responsible for, among other things: Regularly reviewing the board structure, size and composition and making recommendations to the board on any changes that are deemed necessary.
Identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the board to fill board vacancies as and when they arise, as well as putting in place plans for succession, in particular, of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Managing Director.
Making recommendations to the board for the continuation or not in service of a director.
Recommending directors who will be retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election.
Membership and attendance Details of attendance and membership are shown below.
Number of meetings Number of meetings Nomination Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent HS Herman Chairman 1 1 No SE Abrahams 1 1 Yes Sir C Keswick 1 1 Yes Refer to page 115 for details of recommendations made by Ernst & Young LLP in relation to the composition of the board and its committees.
In light of these recommendations, members of the Nomination Committee interviewed potential candidates during the period under review.
This process lead to the identification and appointment of Cheryl Carolus, a South African based non-executive director.
121 Membership Board Risk Review Committee Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Role and responsibilities Members Non-executive directors The purpose of the committee is to ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and SE Abrahams procedures are implemented and monitored throughout GFO Alford Investec.
GMT Howe The risk management structure is adequate, with sufficient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the fide Jowell board.
Sir C Keswick Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are PRS Thomas ratified.
There is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the Executive directors of DLC and bases of measuring risk.
subsidiary boards The Board Risk Review Committee defines the processes by GR Burger Group Risk and Finance which internal financial control risk is assumed and monitored.
Director The Group Risk Management division provides the expertise, B Kantor Managing Director processes and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
DM Lawrence A Tapnack A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the Board Risk Review Committee and the Board of Directors.
These include the Senior management - by invitation Asset and Liability Committees, Group Credit Committee, C Daleski Country Risk Forum, Group Market Risk Forum, Group Deal Forum, Operational Risk Forums, Legal Risk Forum and the C Fiddes Capital Committee.
B Fried PR Jacobson B Tapnack DM van der Walt G Waksman RJ Wainwright JKC Whelan IR Wohlman Meeting times during the year Monthly Directors responsibility and corporate governance Executive Risk Review Committee Directors Affairs Committee Role and responsibilities Investec Bank Limited, a subsidiary of Investec Limited has The Executive Risk Review Forum supplements the Board Risk established a Directors Affairs Committee, as required by the Review Committee and its purpose is to: South African Banks Act.
The roles and responsibilities of the Evaluate the most significant risks we face in the ordinary Directors Affairs Committee are, in Investec Limited and course of business credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal Investec plc divided amongst the other board sub-committees and reputational.
referred to above, in particular the Audit Committee and the Ensure that limits are adhered to and that agreed Nomination Committee.
recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented.
Act as agent of the board to ensure that all decisions of the Role and responsibilities board on risk management policies and procedures are The role of the committee is to assist the board: implemented and monitored throughout the group.
Through regular interactions with the board and Ensure the group-wide risk management structure is management in the determination and evaluation of the adequately resourced and has an appropriate budget.
adequacy, efficiency and appropriateness of corporate Provide regular reports to the board with emphasis on governance structures and practices of the bank on an effectiveness of the control framework.
Provide regular reports on group-wide adherence to To ensure that the bank and its subsidiaries the group are regulatory requirements and advise on how changes to complying with the applicable laws and regulations as well as regulatory requirements will affect us.
Ensure that there is an ongoing process of risk and control To ensure that the board operates effectively by regularly identification, particularly in line with any changes to business reviewing the composition of skills and experience of all objectives, for example, the commencing of a new trading directors.
To establish and maintain a continuity programme to regularly review the succession plan for all directors.
By updating the board on any emerging issues relating to Membership corporate governance.
Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer To annually assess the effectiveness of the board and the contribution of each director.
Where necessary, advise the Members GR Burger Group Risk and Finance board whether the employment of any director should be Director terminated.
B Fried By reviewing policies, procedures and matters that the board may refer to the committee.
S Hackner To review and ensure that any conflicts of interest relating to S Heilbron directors have been dealt with appropriately.
PR Jacobson By reviewing all corporate governance related documents which need board approval e. g. Annual Report disclosures, B Kantor Managing Director Regulation 38 and 39 of the Banks Act.
DM Lawrence To ensure that adequate succession plans are in place for the AWJ Leith key positions of the bank.
B Tapnack Membership DM van der Walt Chairman HS Herman RJ Wainwright Members Non-executive directors JKC Whelan D Motsepe IR Wohlman Dr MZ Nkosi Meeting times Every Friday except on the Board Risk during the year Review Committee dates F Titi RAP Upton Meeting times Twice during the year 123 Membership DLC Capital Committee Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Role and responsibilities Members Non-executive directors Our capital management framework see pages 103 to 104 seeks to optimise the use of our capital by determining: SE Abrahams The optimal amount of total capital commensurate with our fide Jowell overall risk profile in order to: - Support business strategies, including any inherent growth assumptions.
Executive directors of DLC and - Meet targeted credit ratings and regulatory ratios.
subsidiary boards - Protect against losses, maintain liquidity and buttress our GR Burger Group Risk and Finance capital requirements to cater for future opportunistic Director acquisitions.
B Kantor Managing Director Capital allocation to activities with the most favourable returns and highlighting those activities which are unduly A Tapnack capital intensive.
B Tapnack The most efficient composition of the group's capital base.
Against this background the DLC Capital Committee is Senior management responsible for: S Burgess Determining the DLC group's capital requirements and proposals for the issue buy-back of equity and or secondary R Jacobson capital raisings.
L Penfold Corporate restructuring for acquisitions.
Considering, with a view to ultimately approving, internal restructures proposed within each silo.
By invitation Economic capital management, which involves: J Hay - Monitoring the capital positions of each business unit and its composition relative to the whole.
In fulfilling this N Samujh function, the committee reviews the following: Meeting times - The amount of capital each silo is currently utilising within each business unit.
during the year Every six weeks - Forecasts of the needs, availability and usage of capital.
- Changes, if any, required in the allocation or composition of capital.
- Implications to capital arising out of corporate actions like acquisitions, divestments, internal restructures.
Approving trading capital limits utilised by the regulated entities in South Africa and the delineation between trading and investment assets acquired held by the group.
Directors responsibility and corporate governance own risk, following a consistent risk assessment process Management and succession planning through workshops facilitated by Group Risk Management.
Risks to shareholder value are defined, and the risks to these Global business unit heads, geographic management, and heads objectives and controls for each risk are identified and of central and group service functions are appointed by evaluated.
The action plans and risk and control issues arising executive management and endorsed by the board, based on from this process are reviewed regularly at the relevant the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the executive and management committees based at a business required function.
In general, managers do not have fixed term unit level.
employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Senior management reviews these risk assessments regularly.
Our management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities are built around a geographic, divisional and Internal Audit reports control recommendations to senior functional network, as depicted on page 40. management, Risk Management, the Audit Committee and relevant Sub-Audit Committees.
Furthermore, each strategic business unit has an executive management committee and is responsible for taking and Appropriate processes ensure that timely corrective actions implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning are taken on matters raised by Internal Audit.
divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Significant risks are reviewed weekly by the Executive Risk Matters of succession are considered regularly.
Decision Review Forum and monthly by the Board Risk Review making is spread to encourage and develop an experienced Committee.
Material incidents and losses and significant pool of talent.
breaches of systems and controls are reported to the Board Risk Review Committee and the Audit Committee.
Reports from the Audit Committees, Board Risk Review Committee Internal control and risk and control functions are reviewed at each board meeting.
We continued to embed the principles of the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the Institute of Chartered Internal financial control Accountants of England and Wales in 1999, throughout the group during the year under review.
We also took cognisance Our financial controls focus on critical risk areas.
These areas of the King II requirements in South Africa.
are, as appropriate, identified by operational management, confirmed by group management, reviewed by Group Risk Risks and controls are reviewed regularly for relevance and Management, and assessed by the risk control functions of effectiveness.
The Board Risk Review Committee assists the Internal Audit and Compliance.
Group Risk Management board in this regard.
Sound risk management practices are reports to the Board Risk Review Committee, while the latter promoted by the Group Risk Management function, which is functions report to the Audit Committee.
Accordingly, the independent of operational management.
information may be conveyed to the board from one or more quarters to enable the latter to monitor the process of The board recognises its responsibility for the overall risk and identifying these risks.
control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal financial controls are based on established policies and The system of internal control is designed to manage, not procedures.
Management is responsible for implementing eliminate, significant risks we face and was in place for the year internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably under review.
It is recognised that such a system can only qualified, that an appropriate segregation exists between duties provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against and that independent review takes place.
material error, omission, misstatement or loss.
This is achieved through a combination of risk identification, evaluation and Processes are in place to monitor internal control monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and forums and assurance and control functions such as Risk ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
Management, Internal Audit and Compliance.
These ongoing processes were in place for the year under review.
The directors consider that our system of internal financial control is adequately designed where appropriate to: As part of the process, risk and control identification is Provide reasonable, although not absolute, assurance of the completed and assessed at business unit level.
Each business integrity and reliability of financial information.
unit has responsibility and accountability for management of its 125 Identify and appropriately mitigate significant accounting and out in the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as financial reporting risks.
well as in circular 16 2004 of the South African Banks Act, will Safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of assets.
be adhered to by the end of the 2005 audit.
Support business objectives and sustainability under normal Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of an agreed policy, and adverse operating conditions.
which states that: Our external audit firms will have internal standards and processes to monitor and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the Audit Committees on an Risk management annual basis.
These will be considered based on the explicit exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines.
The board is responsible for the total process of risk Safeguards must be in place to ensure that there is no threat management and the system of internal control.
A number of to the objectivity and independence in the conduct of the committees as mentioned above assist in this regard.
Senior audit, resulting from the provision of non-audit services by management is responsible for identifying risk and the external auditors.
implementing appropriate mitigation and controls within their businesses.
An independent Group Risk Management division, Total audit fees for the year were 6.5 million which is accountable to the board, is responsible for designing 2004: 4.7 million, of which 2.7 million 2004: 1.2 million and reviewing the process of risk management.
related to the provision of non-audit services.
Risk management is discussed in more detail on pages 79 to 104.
Compliance We recognise our responsibility to conduct business in Internal Audit accordance with the laws and regulations in the geographies in which we operate.
The Compliance function is supported by Each significant jurisdiction has an Internal Audit presence that compliance officers in the business units.
is appropriate for the size, nature and extent of business conducted.
Smaller geographies are supported by the Internal For further details on the Compliance function, see pages 106 Audit teams of the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
A risk based audit approach is followed and the Audit Committee approves annual audit plans.
Regulation and supervision Heads of Internal Audit report to the Chairman of the relevant audit committee and to the Head of Corporate We are subject to external regulation and supervision by Governance and Compliance, and have unrestricted access to various supervisory authorities - the main ones being the UK the Chairmen of the Audit Committees.
Financial Services Authority FSA, the South African Reserve Bank SARB and the Australian Prudential Regulatory For further details on the Internal Audit function, see Authority.
Some of our businesses are subject to supervision page 105. by the South African Financial Services Board.
In terms of the DLC structure, the SARB Banking Supervision Department is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec External audit group, comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The SARB is also the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the FSA in the Our external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG Inc. UK is the supervisor of Investec plc.
We attempt to establish The independence of the external auditors is recognised, and and maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and reviewed with the auditors by the Audit Committee on an supervisors.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and annual basis.
pragmatically to emerging issues and we report to regulators and supervisory bodies regularly.
Where appropriate, we The Audit Committees meet with the external auditors to participate in industry committees and discussion groups to review the scope of the external audit, budgets and any audit maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which we matters arising.
The external auditors attend the Audit Committee meetings and have access to the Chairmen of the Audit Committees.
Recommendations regarding the rotation of auditors, as laid Directors responsibility and corporate governance investment community, communication by email, regular Communication and stakeholder telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders relations in response to their enquiries.
The Investor Relations division reports back regularly to the operating divisions, the group The board recognises that effective communication is integral executive and the board on matters and concerns raised by in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing stakeholders.
Copies of analyst, rating agency and other meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and nonrelevant reports are also circulated to the board.
financial information to primary stakeholders who are defined Our communication policy focuses on ensuring that all below.
The purpose is to help these stakeholders make employees worldwide are kept informed of business meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions developments and activities.
Our quarterly magazine, Impact, about the group.
provides all employees worldwide with information on the latest happenings within Investec.
Furthermore, we have a We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable comprehensive intranet site in South Africa and the UK, assessment of our position by addressing material matters of which keeps employees updated on group developments significant interest and concern.
We also seek to highlight the and topics of interest.
Urgent notices are sent to all staff key risks to which we consider ourselves exposed and our through our internal email system.
responses to minimise the impact of the risks.
Another All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual objective is to show a balance between the positive and general meeting and to raise issues and participate in negative aspects of our activities, in order to achieve a discussion on items included in the notice of the meeting.
comprehensive and fair account of our performance.
The meeting provides an opportunity for the board to communicate with shareholders and for shareholders to put Our primary stakeholders include employees, shareholders, their questions across in person.
The chairmen of the Audit, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, rating Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend the agencies, the media, communities and industry investment meeting to respond to relevant questions.
The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is available to all appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and shareholders.
We propose a separate resolution on each expectations of all our stakeholders and building lasting substantially separate issue and do not bundle resolutions relationships with them.
Shareholders are requested to approve our report and accounts and our remuneration To achieve its communication objectives, the board provides report.
The outcome of the voting on the items of business information to stakeholders and the market in several ways: are released on the stock exchange news services and Significant announcements are released directly to the posted on the website after the meeting.
market via the services offered by the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
In terms of our DLC During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, the group structure, announcements are released simultaneously on Managing Director and other members of executive both exchanges, thereby ensuring fair treatment of all management continued to meet with shareholders in the UK, stakeholders.
Copies of these announcements are placed Europe and South Africa, to understand their issues and immediately on the Investec website at www.
concerns and discuss matters relating to our activities and We maintain a comprehensive investor relations website, performance.
No new material or price sensitive information is which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to provided in such meetings.
Non-executive directors will attend historical and current information.
meetings if requested and, as mentioned above, feedback on Investor presentations are broadcast live via videoconference any issues or concerns raised by investors is provided to the from our offices in the UK and South Africa.
are notified of these events via the stock exchange news services and are welcome to attend and engage with Executive management also met with shareholder executive and non-executive directors.
Stakeholders also representative organisations in the UK prior to its annual have the option of using a live telephone conference facility general meeting, to engage with them largely on our or accessing the audio webcasts of the presentation via the governance policies and practices.
A number of matters were website.
We host at least four investor presentations a year: raised, which were all responded to and, where appropriate, two before we enter into a closed period and two on the adopted in our practices.
Feedback on this process and the day we release interim and year end results.
issues raised by the shareholder representative bodies was Our Investor Relations division has the day-to-day provided to the board and the relevant board committees.
responsibility of ensuring appropriate communication with Furthermore, in March 2005, the Chairman and the non-South stakeholders.
Regular contact is maintained with major African based non-executive directors hosted a lunch with stakeholders through a comprehensive investor relations shareholder representative organisations in the UK, to help programme, which includes meetings with executive develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
management, investor road shows and presentations to the 127 We will continue to engage these bodies, to remain informed We continually strive to conduct our business with of emerging governance issues.
uncompromising integrity and fairness, so as to promote trust and confidence in the banking industry.
We also embarked on an exercise to engage with certain stakeholders on a number of sustainability issues.
Further details are provided in the 2005 Sustainability Report.
Sustainable business practices In keeping with our entrepreneurial spirit, our sustainability Dealings in securities efforts focus on issues that are most relevant to our business.
Dealings in securities are subject to a policy that has been in As people are our most important asset, we have operation for a number of years.
The policy is based on comprehensive policies and procedures in place, aimed at regulatory guidance and industry practice.
providing a stimulating work environment that attracts, nurtures and retains high-calibre individuals.
We strive to It discourages speculative trading, encourages transparency and inspire entrepreneurship through a flat integrated structure is monitored by the Group Compliance divisions.
Material employee ownership is period policy is in place during periods of price sensitivity, one of our fundamental philosophies.
The staff share schemes which precludes officers and staff from dealing in our enable employees to participate in our long-term growth, securities.
encouraging motivation, commitment and loyalty.
By aligning our employees' interests with those of our shareholders, we All personal dealings are required to be conducted through aim to stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit, growing a culture our securities operation, to further enhance transparency and dedicated to creating wealth for all stakeholders and monitoring.
New employees across all gender and race groups participate in the staff share schemes, by being allocated The Remuneration Report, as set out on pages 128 to 146, options to acquire equity.
contains details of Investec shares held by directors.
Directors' dealings in the securities of Investec plc and Investec Limited This, together with our culture, values and human resources are subject to a policy based on regulatory requirements and practices, creates a working environment that stimulates governance best practice.
All directors' dealings require the extraordinary performance.
In this way, employees are able to prior approval of the Chairman.
be positive contributors to the group, clients and their communities.
For further information on sustainable business practices, refer Values and code of conduct to the 2005 Sustainability Report.
We have a strong organisational culture of entrenched values, which forms the cornerstone of our expected behaviour towards all stakeholders.
These values are embodied in a written Statement of Values, which serves as our Code of Ethics and is continually reinforced.
Regular values review workshops are conducted across the group, allowing staff members to debate the meaning, importance and relevance of these values to our daily operations.
We view all employees as the custodians of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced through internal processes, policies and procedures.
As such, all new employees are invited to attend induction processes at which our philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures are explained and discussed.
Furthermore, our Organisation Development team plays an important role in facilitating the understanding and ongoing practice of our values, philosophies and culture.
In addition to our values, acceptable business practices are communicated through the Human Resources practices manual, which is available on our intranet.
