Corporate Governance Compliance The Board meets at least quarterly during the year The Company is committed to high standards of and additional meetings are arranged as corporate governance.
Full and timely information is provided with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities to the Board to enable it to function effectively and on page 29, indicates how the Company has to allow Directors to discharge their applied the principles of good governance of the responsibilities.
revised Combined Code published in 2003 the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Combined Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate independent professional advice if necessary and Governance, also published in 2003 the AITC at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to Code, which complements the Combined Code the access that every Director has to the advice and provides a framework of best practice for and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, investment trusts.
which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that The Board is responsible for ensuring the Board procedures are followed and that applicable appropriate level of corporate governance and rules and regulations are complied with.
considers that the Company has complied with the Board Composition best practice provisions of the Combined Code, The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys all of whom are regarded by the Board as business, and the AITC Code throughout the year independent of the Companys Manager, including under review.
The Directors have a breadth of Role of the Board investment, business and financial skills and A management agreement between the Company experience relevant to the Companys business and and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the brief biographical details of each Director are set Manager has authority.
This includes management out on page 19. of the Companys assets and the provision of A review of Board composition and balance is accounting, company secretarial, administration, included as part of the annual performance and some marketing services.
All other matters are evaluation of the Board, details of which may be reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Board has considered whether a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for senior independent director should be appointed decision has been approved during the year.
This and has concluded that, as the Board comprises includes determination and monitoring of the entirely of non-executive directors, this is Companys investment objectives and policy and unnecessary at present.
However, the Chairman its future strategic direction, gearing policy, of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of management of the capital structure, appointment the performance of the Chairman and is available and removal of third party service providers, to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot review of key investment and financial data and be resolved through discussion with the the Companys corporate governance and risk Chairman.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 23 Corporate Governance continued Tenure on page 19.
Directors who are not members of Directors are initially appointed until the following Committees may attend at the invitation of the Annual General Meeting when, under the Chairman.
Companys Articles of Association, it is required The table below details the number of Board and that they be re-elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, Audit Committee meetings attended by each a Directors appointment will run for a term of Director.
During the year there were six Board three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation meetings, including a private meeting of the carried out each year, the Board will agree whether Directors to evaluate the Manager and a separate it is appropriate for the Director to seek an meeting devoted to strategy, two Audit Committee additional term.
The Board does not believe that meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Audit Nomination Director from seeking re-election but, when making Board Committee Committee a recommendation, the Board will take into meetings meetings meetings Director attended attended attended account the ongoing requirements of the Andrew Murison 6 2 1 Combined Code, including the need to refresh the 1 William Berry 6 n a 1 Board and its committees.
The Companys Articles Robin Faber 6 2 1 of Association require that Directors stand for re- 2 Gal fide Pontbriand 4 1 n a election at least every three years.
Any Director Ferdinand Verdonck 6 2 1 Alexander E Zagoreos 6 2 1 who has served for a period of more than nine 1 years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
The terms and conditions of Directors Training and Appraisal appointments are set out in formal letters of The Manager and Company Secretary provides all appointment, copies of which are available for Directors with induction training on appointment.
inspection on request at the Companys registered Thereafter regular briefings are provided on office and at the AGM.
changes in regulatory requirements that affect the The Board recommends the re-election of Stephen Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged Russell, who was appointed a Director on 1st June to attend industry and other seminars covering 2005.
As a result of the Boards evaluation process issues and developments relevant to investment described below, it confirms that Alexander trusts.
Zagoreos, Andrew Murison and Ferdinand The Board has agreed procedures for the formal Verdonck, who retire by rotation at this years AGM, evaluation of the Manager, its own performance continue to be effective Directors and demonstrate and of that of its committees and individual commitment to their roles, and the Board Directors as follows: questionnaires, drawn up by recommends their re-election.
the Board, are completed by each Director, the Meetings and Committees responses are collated and then discussed at a The Board delegates certain responsibilities and private meeting.
The evaluation of individual functions to committees.
Details of membership of Directors is led by the Chairman, and the Chairman committees are shown with the Directors profiles 24 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the reviews the terms of the management agreement Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole and examines the effectiveness of the Companys evaluates the Manager, its own performance and internal control systems, receives information from that of its committees.
the Managers compliance department and reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost Board Committees effectiveness and the independence and Nomination Committee objectivity of the external auditors.
During the year the Board established a Representatives of the Companys auditors attend Nomination Committee, which consists of all of the the Committee meeting at which the draft annual Directors, and which meets at least annually to report and financial statements are considered.
ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance The Directors statement on the Companys system of skills to carry out its fiduciary duties and to of internal control is set out below.
select and propose suitable candidates when Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit necessary for appointment.
A variety of sources, Committee have written terms of reference which including the use of external search consultants, define clearly their respective responsibilities, may be used to ensure that a wide range of copies of which are available for inspection on candidates are considered.
External search request at the Companys registered office and at consultants were used in connection with the the AGM.
Relations with Shareholders The Committee undertakes an annual performance The Board regularly monitors the shareholder evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all profile of the Company.
It aims to provide members of the Board have devoted sufficient time shareholders with a full understanding of the and contributed adequately to the work of the Companys activities and performance and reports Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the and makes recommendations to the Board as and Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim when required.
This is supplemented by the daily Audit Committee publication, through the London Stock Exchange, The Audit Committee, which comprises solely of of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
independent Directors and whose membership is All shareholders have the opportunity, and are set out on page 19, meets at least twice each year.
encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual The members of the Committee consider that they General Meeting at which the Directors and have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the representatives of the Manager are available in responsibilities of the Committee.
person to meet with and answer shareholders The Committee reviews the actions and questions.
In addition, a presentation is given by judgements of the Manager in relation to the the Investment Manager who reviews the interim and annual financial statements and the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It Companys brokers, the Investment Manager and JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 25 Corporate Governance continued JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger Companys system of internal control mainly shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware comprises monitoring the services provided by of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make JPMAM and its associates, including the operating themselves available as and when required to controls established by them, to ensure they meet address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be the Companys business objectives.
The Company contacted through the Company Secretary whose does not have an internal audit function of its own, details are shown on page 47. but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
The key elements designed to provide The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is effective internal control are as follows: published in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions review by the Board of key investment and in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write financial data, including management accounts, to the Company Secretary at the address shown on revenue projections, analysis of transactions and page 47. performance comparisons.
Internal Control Management Agreement Appointment of a The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least manager and custodian regulated by the Financial annually, to review the effectiveness of the Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities Companys system of internal control and to report are clearly defined in a written agreement.
to shareholders that they have done so.
This Management Systems The Managers system of encompasses a review of all controls, which the internal control includes organisational Board has identified as including business, agreements which clearly define the lines of financial, operational, compliance and risk responsibility, delegated authority, control management.
These are monitored by The Directors are responsible for the Companys JPMAMs compliance department which regularly system of internal control which is designed to monitors compliance with FSA rules.
safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper Investment Strategy Authorisation and accounting records and ensure that financial monitoring of the Companys investment strategy information used within the business, or and exposure limits by the Board.
However, such a system can The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the Companys system of internal control by the risk of failure to achieve business objectives monitoring the operation of the key operating and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not controls of the Manager and its associates as absolute, assurance against fraud, material misfollows: statement or loss.
the Board, through the Audit Committee, Since investment management, custody of assets reviews the terms of the management and all administrative services are provided to the agreement and receives regular reports from Company by JPMAM and its associates, the JPMAMs compliance department: 26 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European the Board reviews the report on the internal Corporate Governance and Voting Policy controls and the operations of its custodian, The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs independently reviewed: and policy statement on corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted by the Board: the Directors review every six months an independent report on the internal controls JPMAM is committed to delivering superior and the operations of JPMAM.
investment performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment By the means of the procedures set out above, the performance is an assessment of the corporate Board confirms that it has reviewed the governance principles and practices of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal companies in which we invest our clients assets control for the year ended 31st March 2005, and to and we expect those companies to demonstrate the date of approval of this Annual Report and high standards of governance in the management Accounts.
Socially Responsible Investment Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy governance process, and we view seriously our statement on socially responsible investment obligation to manage the voting rights of the which has been noted by the Board: shares entrusted to us as we would manage any Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is our other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a primary duty to act in the best financial interests of prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our clients and to achieve good financial returns our reasonable judgement of what will best serve consistent with an acceptable level of risk in the the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is management of our clients investments.
A practicable we will vote at all of the meetings company run in the long-term interests of its called by companies in which we are invested.
shareholders with the objective of enhancing In order to do this we have formulated detailed shareholder value over time will need to manage guidelines, which set out our stance on a variety of effectively relationships with its employees, key corporate governance issues, including suppliers and customers, to behave ethically and disclosure and transparency, board composition, to have regard to the environment and society as a committee structure, director independence and whole.
In our pursuit of good financial returns for remuneration issues, auditor rotation and social our clients, our investment managers take account and environmental issues.
These guidelines form of these and all other factors affecting the the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it valuation of the companies in which they are should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its currently invested or considering investment on voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking behalf of clients.
into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
