Corporate Governance Compliance independent of the Companys Manager, including The Company is committed to high standards of the Chairman.
This statement, together A review of Board composition and balance is with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on included as part of the annual performance page 24, indicates how the Company has applied evaluation of the Board, details of which may be the principles of good governance included in found below.
Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on The Board has considered whether a senior Corporate Governance, the Combined Code and independent director should be appointed.
As the the AITCs Code of Corporate Governance, the AITC Board comprises entirely of non-executive directors, Code which complements the Combined Code and the appointment of a senior independent director is provides a framework for best practice for not considered necessary.
However, the Chairman of investment trusts.
the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the The Board is responsible for ensuring the performance of the Chairman and is available to appropriate level of Corporate Governance and shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be considers that throughout the year ended 30th resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
September 2005 the Company has complied with Tenure the best practice provisions of the Combined Code Directors are initially appointed until the following insofar as they are relevant to the Companys Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys business, save for the exceptions noted below, and Articles of Association, it is required that they be the AITC Code throughout the year under review.
Thereafter, Directors are Role of the Board required to submit themselves for re-election at The Board determines and monitors the Companys least every three years.
The Chairman will meet with investment objectives and policy, and its future each director before the director is proposed for strategic direction.
A management agreement re-election, and subject to the evaluation of between the Company and JPMAM sets out the performance carried out each year, the Board will matters over which the Manager has authority.
This agree whether it is appropriate for the director to includes management of the Companys assets and seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe the provision of accounting, company secretarial, that length of service in itself will necessarily administration, and some marketing services.
All disqualify a director from seeking re-election but, other matters are reserved for the approval of the when making a recommendation, the Board will Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to take into account the on-going requirements of the the Board for decision has been reviewed and Combined Code, including the need to refresh the updated during the year.
Full and timely Board and its Committees.
information is provided to the Board to enable it to Any directors with more than nine years service will function effectively and to allow Directors to be required to submit themselves annually for redischarge their responsibilities.
In this regard, the Board recommends the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take re-elections of Blaise Hardman and Jeremy independent professional advice if necessary and Paulson-Ellis who, both having served in excess of at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to nine years, retire at this years AGM.
Blaise the access that every Director has to the advice Hardman has a wealth of experience in the and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, financial sector and makes an invaluable which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that contribution to the workings of the Board.
Jeremy Board procedures are followed and that applicable Paulson-Ellis is similarly experienced in investment rules and regulations are complied with.
matters and, as Chairman, has demonstrated Board Composition effective leadership of the Company.
The Board consists of five non-executive directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 19 Corporate Governance continued Meetings and Committees Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairmans The Board delegates certain responsibilities and performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates its functions to committees.
Details of membership of own performance and that of its committees.
committees are shown with Directors profiles on Board Committees page 16.
Directors who are not members of Nomination Committee Committees may attend at the invitation of the The Board has established a Nomination Committee, Chairman.
which consists of the entire Board, and which meets at least annually to ensure that the Board has a The table below lists the number of Board and balance of skills and experience to carry out its Committee meetings attended by each Director.
fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable During the year there were four Board meetings, candidates for appointment when necessary.
A including a meeting devoted to strategy, two Audit variety of sources, including external search Committee meetings and a meeting of the consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide Nomination Committee.
In addition there is regular range of candidates is considered.
contact between the Directors and the Manager and Company Secretary throughout the year.
The Committee undertakes an annual performance Audit Nomination evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board Board Committee Committee have devoted sufficient time and contributed Meetings Meetings Meetings adequately to the work of the Board.
The Director Attended Attended Attended Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes 1 Andrew Fleming 42 1 recommendations to the Board as and when Blaise Hardman 4 2 1 Jeremy Paulson-Ellis 4 2 1 required.
David Pearson 4 2 1 Audit Committee 2 Keith Percy 42 1 3 David Ritchie 11 The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and its membership is set out on page 16.
Committee reviews the actions and judgements of 2 Appointed 4th November 2004. management in relation to the interim and annual 3 Retired 17th December 2004. financial statements and the Companys Training and Appraisal compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews the On appointment the Manager and Company terms of the management agreement and Secretary provide all Directors with induction examines the effectiveness of the Companys training.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided internal control systems, receives information from on changes in regulatory requirements that could the Managers compliance department and also affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are reviews the scope and results of the external audit, encouraged to attend industry and other seminars its cost effectiveness and the independence and covering issues and developments relevant to objectivity of the external auditors.
statement on the Companys system of internal control is set out below.
The Board has agreed a procedure for the formal evaluation of its own performance and of that of its The terms of reference for the Nomination and committees and individual directors.
The Audit Committees are available for inspection on evaluation of individual directors is led by the request and at the Companys AGM.
Chairman, and the Chairman of the Audit 20 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Relations with Shareholders Companys system of internal control mainly The Board regularly monitors the shareholder comprises monitoring the services provided by profile of the Company.
JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls established by them.
The Company does The Company reports formally to shareholders not have an internal audit function of its own, but twice a year by way of the Annual Report and relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
Accounts and the Interim Report.
The key procedures designed to provide effective All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the internal control are as follows: Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and representatives of the Manager are Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive available in person to meet and answer questions.
In review by the Board of key investment and addition, a presentation is given by the investment financial data, including management accounts, managers who review the Companys performance.
revenue projections, analysis of transactions and During the year the Companys brokers, the performance comparisons.
investment managers and JPMAM hold regular Management Agreement Appointment of a discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors manager and custodian, regulated by the Financial are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities and Directors make themselves available as and are clearly defined in a written agreement.
when required to address shareholder queries.
Management Systems The Managers system of The Directors may be contacted through the internal control includes organisational Company Secretary whose details are shown on agreements which clearly define the lines of page 40. responsibility, delegated authority, control Internal Control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by The Combined Code requires the Directors at least JPMAMs compliance department which regularly annually to review the effectiveness of the monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Companys system of internal control and to report Investment Strategy Authorisation and to shareholders that they have done so.
This monitoring of the Companys investment strategy encompasses a review of all controls, which include and exposure limits by the Board.
business, financial, operational, compliance and risk The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of management.
the Companys system of internal control by The Directors are responsible for the Companys monitoring the operation of the key operating system of internal control which is designed to controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper the Board, through the Audit Committee, accounting records and ensure that financial reviews the terms of the management information used within the business, or published agreement and receives reports from JPMAMs for external use, is reliable.
However, any such Compliance department: system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Board receives an independent report on business objectives and therefore can only provide the internal controls and the operations of its reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself fraud, material misstatement or loss.
also independently reviewed: and the Directors consider every six months an Since investment management, custody of assets independent report on the internal controls and and all administrative services are provided to the the operations of JPMAM.
Company by JPMAM and its associates, the JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 21 Corporate Governance continued By the means of the procedures set out above, the Proxy voting is an important part of the Board confirms that, in accordance with the corporate governance process, and we view Turnbull Guidance, it has reviewed the seriously our obligation to manage the voting effectiveness of the Companys system of internal rights of the shares entrusted to us as we control for the year ended 30th September 2005, would manage any other asset.
It is the policy and to the date of approval of this Annual Report of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent and Accounts.
manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial Socially Responsible Investment interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable The Directors believe that it is in shareholders we will vote at all of the meetings called by interests to consider environmental, ethical and companies in which we are invested.
social factors when selecting and retaining investments.
They have asked JPMorgan Asset In order to do this we have formulated detailed Management to take these issues into account as guidelines, which set out our stance on a long as the investment objectives and the variety of key corporate governance issues, performance of the Company are not including disclosure and transparency, board compromised.
JPMAM always considers the composition, committee structure, director environmental, social and ethical aspects of every independence and remuneration issues, auditor company in which they may or do invest.
While, rotation and social and environmental issues.
inevitably, standards vary from country to country, These guidelines form the basis of our proxy JPMAM expects companies to conform to local voting decisions, although it should be noted best practice.
that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the Corporate Governance and Voting Policy individual circumstances of each vote.
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate governance and voting policy which has been approved by the Board: JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management of their business.
