Corporate Governance Compliance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take The Company is committed to high standards of independent professional advice if necessary and corporate governance.
This statement, together at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities the access that every Director has to the advice on page 27, indicates how the Company has and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, applied the principles of good governance of the which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code Board procedures are followed and for compliance the Combined Code and the AITCs Code of with applicable rules and regulations.
Corporate Governance the AITC Code, which Board Composition complements the Combined Code and provides a The Board, chaired by George Paul, consists of five framework of best practice for investment trusts.
non-executive Directors, of whom four are The Board is responsible for ensuring the regarded by the Board as independent of the appropriate level of Corporate Governance and Companys Manager, including the Chairman.
The considers that the Company has complied with the Chairmans independence was assessed upon his best practice provisions of the Combined Code, appointment.
The Directors have a breadth of insofar as they are relevant to the Companys investment, business and financial skills and business, and the AITC Code throughout the year experience relevant to the Companys business under review.
and brief biographical details of each Director are set out on page 16.
Role of the Board A management agreement between the Company A review of Board composition and balance is and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the included as part of the annual performance Manager has authority.
This includes management evaluation of the Board, details of which may be of the Companys assets and the provision of found below.
The Board has appointed Richard accounting, company secretarial, administration, Barfield as the Senior Independent Director.
The and some marketing services.
All other matters Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A of the performance of the Chairman and is formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board available to shareholders if they have concerns for decision has been approved during the year.
that cannot be resolved through discussion with This includes determination and monitoring of the the Chairman.
Companys investment objectives and policy and Tenure its future strategic direction, gearing policy, Directors are initially appointed until the following management of the capital structure, appointment Annual General Meeting when, under the and removal of third party service providers, Companys Articles of Association, it is required review of key investment and financial data and that they be elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a the Companys corporate governance and risk Directors appointment will run for a term of three control arrangements.
Subject to the performance evaluation The Board meets at least quarterly during the year carried out each year, the Board will agree and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
whether it is appropriate for the Director to seek Full and timely information is provided to the Board an additional term.
The Board does not believe to enable it to function effectively and to allow that length of service in itself necessarily Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, the Board JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 21 Corporate Governance continued will take into account the ongoing requirements of Training and Appraisal the Combined Code, including the need to refresh The Manager and Company Secretary provide all the Board and its Committees.
The Companys Directors with induction training on appointment.
Articles of Association require that Directors stand Thereafter regular briefings are provided on for re-election at least every three years.
Any changes in regulatory requirements that affect the Director who has served for a period of more than Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged nine years will stand for annual re-election to attend industry and other seminars covering thereafter.
issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal letters of The Board has agreed procedures for the formal appointment, copies of which are available for evaluation of the Manager, its own performance inspection on request at the Companys registered and of that of its committees and individual office and at the AGM.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, are completed by each Director.
The responses are The Board recommends the re-election of John collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
Rennocks and Simon Davies, both of whom retire The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the by rotation at this years AGM.
Chairman, and the Senior Independent Director Meetings and Committees leads the evaluation of the Chairmans The Board delegates certain responsibilities and performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the functions to committees.
Details of membership of Manager, its own performance and that of its committees are shown with the Directors profiles committees.
Directors who are not members of Board Committees Committees may attend at the invitation of the Chairman.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, chaired by George Paul, The table below details the number of Board and consists of all of the Directors and meets at least Committee meetings attended by each Director.
annually to ensure that the Board has an During the year there were four Board meetings, appropriate balance of skills to carry out its plus a separate meeting devoted to strategy, two fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable Audit and Management Engagement Committee candidates when necessary for appointment.
A meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
variety of sources, including the use of external Audit and search consultants, are used to ensure that a wide Management Engagement Nomination Remuneration range of candidates are considered.
Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Remuneration Committee Director attended attended attended attended The Remuneration Committee, chaired by George Richard Barfield 4 2 1 1 Paul, consists of all of the Directors and meets at Simon Davies 3 2 least annually to review Directors fees and make Geoffrey Howe 3 1 1 recommendations to the Board as and when George Paul 4 2 1 1 required.
John Rennocks 4 2 1 1 22 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Audit and Management Engagement Committee All shareholders have the opportunity, and are The Audit and Management Engagement encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual Committee, chaired by John Rennocks, comprises General Meeting at which the Directors and the independent Directors and meets at least twice representatives of the Manager are available in each year.
The members of the Committee consider person to meet shareholders and answer their that they have the requisite skills and experience questions.
In addition, a presentation is given by to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
the investment manager who reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the The Audit and Management Engagement Companys brokers, the investment manager and Committee reviews the actions and judgements of JPMAM hold regular discussions with larger the Manager in relation to the interim and annual shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware accounts and the Companys compliance with the of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the themselves available as and when required to management agreement and examines the address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be effectiveness of the Companys internal control contacted through the Company Secretary whose systems, receives information from the Managers details are shown on page 46. compliance department and reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is effectiveness and the independence and published in time to give shareholders at least 20 objectivity of the external auditors.
working days notice of the Annual General Representatives of the Companys auditors attend Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions the Committee meeting at which the draft annual in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write report and accounts are considered.
The to the Company Secretary at the address shown on Directors statement on the Companys system of page 46. internal control is set out below.
Internal Control All the Board Committees have written terms of The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least reference which define clearly their respective annually, to review the effectiveness of the responsibilities, copies of which are available for Companys system of internal control and to report inspection on request at the Companys registered to shareholders that they have done so.
This office and at the AGM.
encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has identified as including business, Relations with Shareholders financial, operational, compliance and risk The Board regularly monitors the shareholder management.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the The Directors are responsible for the Companys Companys activities and performance and reports system of internal control which is designed to formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim accounting records and ensure that financial Report.
This is supplemented by the daily information used within the business, or publication, through the London Stock Exchange, published, is reliable.
However, such a system can of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives JPMorgan Fleming Overseas 23 Corporate Governance continued and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not the Board, through the Audit Committee, absolute, assurance against fraud, material misreviews the terms of the management statement or loss.
agreement and receives regular reports from JPMAMs compliance department: Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the the Board reviews the report on the internal Company by JPMAM and its associates, the controls and the operations of its custodian, Companys system of internal control mainly JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself comprises monitoring the services provided by independently reviewed: and JPMAM and its associates, including the operating the Directors review every six months an controls established by them, to ensure they meet independent report on the internal controls and the Companys business objectives.
The Company the operations of JPMAM.
does not have an internal audit function of its own, By the means of the procedures set out above, the but relies on the internal audit department of Board confirms that it has reviewed the JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept under review.
effectiveness of the Companys system of internal The key elements designed to provide effective control for the year ended 30th June 2005, and to internal control are as follows: the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Accounts.
review by the Board of key investment and Socially Responsible Investment financial data, including management accounts, The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy revenue projections, analysis of transactions and statement on socially responsible investment performance comparisons.
which has been noted by the Board: Management Agreement Appointment of a Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is our manager and custodian regulated by the Financial primary duty to act in the best financial interests of Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities our clients and to achieve good financial returns are clearly defined in a written agreement.
consistent with an acceptable level of risk in the Management Systems The Managers system of management of our clients investments.
A internal control includes organisational company run in the long-term interests of its agreements which clearly define the lines of shareholders with the objective of enhancing responsibility, delegated authority, control shareholder value over time will need to manage procedures and systems.
These are monitored by effectively relationships with its employees, JPMAMs compliance department which regularly suppliers and customers, to behave ethically and monitors compliance with FSA rules.
to have regard to the environment and society as a Investment Strategy Authorisation and whole.
In our pursuit of good financial returns for monitoring of the Companys investment strategy our clients, our investment managers take account and exposure limits by the Board.
of these and all other factors affecting the valuation of the companies in which they are The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of currently invested or considering investment on the Companys system of internal control by behalf of clients.
monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: 24 JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Corporate Governance and Voting Policy The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted by the Board: JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition, committee structure, director independence and remuneration issues, auditor rotation and social and environmental issues.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
