Corporate Governance Compliance strategic direction, gearing policy, management of The Company is committed to high standards of the capital structure, appointment and removal of corporate governance.
This statement, together third party service providers, review of key with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities investment and financial data and the Companys on page 28, indicates how the Company has corporate governance and risk control applied the principles of good governance of the arrangements.
revised Combined Code published in 2003 the The Board meets at least quarterly during the year Combined Code and the AITCs Code of Corporate and additional meetings are arranged as Governance, also published in 2003 the AITC necessary.
Full and timely information is provided Code, which complements the Combined Code to the Board to enable it to function effectively and and provides a framework of best practice for to allow Directors to discharge their investment trusts.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take appropriate level of Corporate Governance and independent professional advice if necessary and considers that the Company has complied with the at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to best practice provisions of the Combined Code, the access that every Director has to the advice other than in respect of the provision relating to and services of the Company Secretary, JPMFAM, the appointment of a senior independent director, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that and the AITC Code throughout the year under applicable rules and regulations are complied with review.
and that Board procedures are followed.
Role of the Board Board Composition A management agreement between the Company The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, and JPMFAM sets out the matters over which the all of whom are regarded by the Board as Manager has authority.
This includes management independent of the Companys Manager, including of the Companys assets and the provision of the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of accounting, company secretarial, administration, investment, business and financial skills and and some marketing services.
All other matters are experience relevant to the Companys business and reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal brief biographical details of each Director are set schedule of matters reserved to the Board for out on page 19. decision has been approved.
This includes A review of Board composition and balance is determination and monitoring of the Companys included as part of the annual performance investment objectives and policy and its future JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 22 Corporate Governance continued evaluation of the Board, details of which are given Director Board Meetings Audit Committee Attended Meetings below.
The Board has considered whether a senior Attended independent director should be appointed and has 1 WL Banks 2 n a concluded that, as the Board consists entirely of NW Berry 3 2 non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
SL Keswick 4 1 Tenure IH Leslie Melville 5 2 Directors are initially appointed until the following LE Linaker 5 2 Annual General Meeting when, under the Dr SG Nairn 4 1 Companys Articles of Association, it is required Lord Rothermere 4 1 1 that they be re-elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, Resigned as a Director on 3rd June 2004. a Directors appointment will run for a term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation Training and Appraisal carried out each year, the Board will agree whether On appointment, the Manager and Company it is appropriate for the Director to seek an Secretary provide all Directors with induction additional term.
Any Director who has served for a training.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided period of more than ten years will submit himself on changes in regulatory requirements that affect for annual re-appointment.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars The Board recommends the re-election of Lord covering issues and developments relevant to Rothermere and Mr Keswick, both of whom retire investment trusts.
by rotation at this years AGM.
The Board has undertaken an evaluation of the Meetings and Committees Manager, its own performance and that of its The Board delegates certain responsibilities and committees and individual Directors.
Details of membership of questionnaires shall be completed by each Director committees are shown with Directors profiles on and the responses collated and discussed.
Directors who are not members of evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Committees may attend at the invitation of the Chairman, and another Director leads the Chairman.
evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The The table opposite details the number of Board Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own and Audit Committee meetings attended by each performance and that of its committees.
During the year there were five Board meetings and two Audit Committee meetings.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 23 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees effectiveness and the independence and Nomination Committee objectivity of the external auditors.
The Board has established a Nomination Representatives of the Companys auditors attend Committee, which consists of all of the Directors, the Committee meeting at which the draft annual and which will meet at least annually to ensure report and financial statements are considered.
that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills The Directors statement on the Companys system to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and of internal control is set out on page 25. propose suitable candidates when necessary for Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit appointment.
A variety of sources are considered Committee have written terms of reference which to ensure that a wide range of candidates is define clearly their respective responsibilities, considered.
copies of which are available for inspection on The Committee undertakes an annual performance request at the Companys registered office and at evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all the AGM.
members of the Board have devoted sufficient time Relations with Shareholders and contributed adequately to the work of the The Board regularly monitors the shareholder Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees profile of the Company.
It aims to provide and makes recommendations to the Board as and shareholders with a full understanding of the when required.
Companys activities and performance and reports Audit Committee formally to shareholders twice a year by way of the The Audit Committee consists of all the Directors Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim and meets at least twice each year.
This is supplemented by the daily of the Committee consider that they have the publication, through the London Stock Exchange, requisite skills and experience to fulfil the of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are The Committee reviews the actions and encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual judgements of management in relation to the General Meeting at which the Directors and interim and annual financial statements and the representatives of the Manager are available in Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It person to meet with shareholders and answer reviews the terms of the management agreement questions.
In addition, a presentation is given by and examines the effectiveness of the Companys the investment managers who review the internal control systems, receives information from Companys performance.
During the year the the Managers compliance department and reviews Companys brokers, the investment managers and the scope and results of the external audit, its cost JPMFAM hold regular discussions with larger JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 24 Corporate Governance continued shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware Since investment management, custody of assets of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make and all administrative services are provided to the themselves available as and when required to Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be Companys system of internal control mainly contacted through the Company Secretary whose consists of monitoring the services provided by details are shown on page 47.
JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating controls established by them, to ensure they meet The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is the Companys business objectives.
The Company published in time to give shareholders at least 20 does not have an internal audit function of its own, working days notice of the Annual General but relies on the internal audit department of Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions JPMFAM and the Board reviews this position in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write annually.
The key elements designed to provide to the Company Secretary at the address shown on effective internal control are as follows: page 47.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Internal Control review by the Board of key investment and The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least financial data, including management accounts, annually, to review the effectiveness of the revenue projections, analysis of transactions and Companys system of internal control and to report performance comparisons.
to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Management Agreement Appointment of a Board has identified as including business, financial, manager and custodian regulated by the Financial operational, compliance and risk management.
Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control which is designed to Management Systems The Managers system of safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper internal control includes organisational accounting records and ensure that financial agreements which clearly define the lines of information used within the business, or responsibility, delegated authority, control published, is reliable.
However, such a system can procedures and systems.
These are monitored by only be designed to manage rather than eliminate JPMFAMs compliance department which regularly the risk of failure to achieve business objectives monitors compliance with FSA rules.
and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not Investment Strategy Authorisation and absolute, assurance against fraud, material mismonitoring of the Companys investment strategy statement or loss.
and exposure limits by the Board.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 25 Corporate Governance continued The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular reports from JPMFAMs compliance department: the Board reviews the report on the internal controls and the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself independently reviewed: and the Directors review every six months an independent report on the internal controls and the operations of JPMFAM.
By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control for the year ended 31st January 2005, and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
