Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Committee also has responsibility for making recommendations to the This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance Board concerning the appointment of the external auditors and for set out in the revised Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditors.
Council in July 2003 the Code have been applied by the Company The Committee reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit during the year ended 31 December 2005.
The Company confirms that, work which the external auditors perform, including the fees paid for with the exception of provision A.
2.1 relating to the roles of Chairman such work, thus ensuring that their objectivity and independence is not and Chief Executive discussed below, it has complied throughout 2005 compromised.
Such non-audit work principally comprises further with the provisions of the Code.
It should be noted that the separation assurance services relating to due diligence and other duties carried out of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive was announced in in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses and tax services.
February 2005 and took place on 1 November 2005.
The Committee believes that given their detailed knowledge of the Groups operations, its structure and accounting policies and the The Board importance of carrying out detailed due diligence as part of the The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other acquisition process, it is appropriate for this additional work to be carried executives and four non-executive directors who have wide experience out by the Companys auditors rather than another firm of accountants.
and are considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys to be independent.
One of these, Mr J F Harris, has been designated as website, www.
None of the Companys non-executive directors had any previous connection with the Company or its executive Remuneration Committee directors on appointment to the Board.
Brief biographical details of the The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent nondirectors are given on page 17 of the Annual Review and Summary executive directors and is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
Further details of Financial Statement.
Information relating to the conduct of Board meetings the Remuneration Committee, the Companys remuneration policy and and the procedures implemented to ensure that the Board retains overall how it is applied are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on control and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and pages 44 to 51.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available compliance issues are set out in the internal control section below and on the Companys website.
in the Financial Review on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee Nomination Committees which comply with the provisions of the Code.
The Nomination Committee comprises Mr A J Habgood, who chairs the The Chairman, Mr A J Habgood, continued to act in the capacity of Committee, and two independent non-executive directors, Mr J F Harris Chief Executive until 1 November.
The Board recognised the concerns, and Mr C A Banks.
The Committee meets as necessary to enable expressed in a general context, about the possible negative effects of a it to make recommendations to the Board on new appointments of concentration of power through a combined Chairman and Chief Executive executive and non-executive directors.
An external search consultancy role and, although it believed these did not apply to the Company for is retained by the Company to assess potential candidates to be a variety of reasons, it was decided at the end of February 2005 that, considered as prospective non-executive directors and, when following the demerger of Filtrona in June 2005, the roles of Chairman appropriate, executive directors.
Candidates are then interviewed by and Chief Executive would be separated.
Having originally agreed to members of the Committee before an appropriate recommendation do so, Mr C P Sander subsequently decided not to assume the position is made to the Board.
On joining the Board, new directors are given of Chief Executive for personal reasons.
The Board therefore instigated an induction into the business of the Company and training as a comprehensive search using an external search consultancy for a new necessary.
Mr J F Harris chaired the Committee when considering Chief Executive as a result of which Mr M J Roney, who had been a the Chief Executive appointment.
The terms of reference of the non-executive director since June 2003, was appointed as Chief Executive Committee are set out on the Companys website.
Mr A J Habgood remains as Chairman.
Meetings attendance The Company has instigated a formal performance evaluation process The following table shows the attendance of directors in 2005: for the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by the Deputy Chairman, Mr A P Dyer, until his retirement on 31 December 2005.
Audit Remuneration Nomination This includes completion of self-assessment forms by, and individual Board Committee Committee Committee discussions with, each director.
This process was carried out satisfactorily Number of meetings 8 3 6 7 during the year.
In future the performance evaluation will be overseen by A J Habgood 8 7 the Chairman, Mr A J Habgood.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings 1 M J Roney 73 5 with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
A P Dyer 7 Led by Mr J F Harris, the senior independent director, the non-executive J F Harris 8 3 6 7 directors also meet without the Chairman present at least annually to D M Williams 8 appraise the Chairmans performance.
C A Banks 8 3 6 7 U Wolters 7 2 6 Detailed information concerning directors remuneration is given in the P L Larmon 7 Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51.
2 P Heiden 31 2 3 C P Sander 4 Audit Committee 4 M J Harper 4 The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr J F Harris who is considered by the 1 Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
It receives and Mr M J Roney was appointed Chief Executive on 1 November 2005 considers reports from the external auditors and the internal audit having attended all of the Audit and Remuneration Committee function, monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal meetings held between 1 January 2005 and that date.
announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and 2 also reviews the Companys internal controls.
During the year the Mr P Heiden resigned from the Board on 6 June 2005 following the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of both the external auditors and demerger of Filtrona having attended all but one of the Board and the internal audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires Remuneration Committee meetings and all of the Audit Committee by both the Board and senior management within the Company.
The meetings held between 1 January 2005 and that date.
2 Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005
