qxd 31 3 06 2:43 am Page 33 overseas subsidiaries is performed by the Boards of the local holding Credit risk is not sought in its own right.
However, the investment companies, which provide reports to the GRCC.
of shareholders and policyholders monies requires credit risks to be taken.
Exposure to credit risk also arises in the reinsurance of Risk Assessment Processes insurance contracts.
Credit risk is managed through the setting and A continuous Group-wide process is in place formally identifying, regular review of detailed counterparty credit and concentration evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement limits.
Compliance with these limits for investment and treasury of the Groups objectives.
A standard approach is used to assess transactions is monitored daily.
Senior management and the Risk Review Functions see below review the output of the assessments.
A Group-wide Risk Assessment Liquidity Risk process is used to determine the key risks within the Group reported Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not to the GRCC.
have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive costs.
Risk Review Functions A degree of liquidity risk is implicit in the Groups businesses.
Group and rm level Risk Review Functions provide oversight of the Liquidity risk arises as a consequence of the uncertainty surrounding risk management processes within the Group.
A central risk function the value and timing of cash ows.
The Groups Treasury function is responsible for setting the risk management framework and manages liquidity to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid standards.
Risk Review Functions in each of the business operating assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net units manage the framework in line with these standards.
responsibilities include the evaluation of changes in the business operating environment and business processes, the assessment Operational Risk of these changes on risks to business and the monitoring of the Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequate or failed internal mitigating actions.
The Risk Review Functions also ensure that risk committees are provided with meaningful risk reports and that processes, people and systems, or from external events.
The Group identies and assesses operational risk as part of its there is appropriate information to assess risk issues.
Details of the categories of risk to the Group and high-level continuous risk assessment processes.
RCCs ensure that appropriate management processes are summarised below.
More detailed policies and procedures are in place for these risks and that they analysis may be found in pages 63 to 73.
The Group has dened are properly controlled.
There are detailed procedures covering policies for the management of its key risks, the operation of which specic areas of operational risk.
are supported by Risk Review Functions and are independently confirmed by Group Internal Audit.
The GRCC reviews and Contagion Risk approves these policies.
The occurrence of a risk in one part of the Group may result in contagion risk elsewhere in the Group.
Such matters are assessed Insurance Risk and monitored by the GRCC.
Insurance risk is the risk arising from higher claims being experienced than was anticipated.
Prudential Regulations of Insurance Business Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business and Most of the activities of the Group relate to the businesses which are arises as a consequence of the type and volume of new business subject to prudential regulation and require management to operate written, the concentration of risk in particular policies or groups of in a sound and prudent manner.
In the UK, the Financial Services and policies subject to the same risks.
Markets Act 2000 the Act established the Financial Services Authority The Group controls its insurance exposures through policies FSA as the regulator for most Group operations.
The Act, in and delegated authorities for underwriting, pricing and reinsurance.
particular, requires long term insurance business to be written within Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, long term insurance funds, for which the actuaries appointed under which have regard to past experience and to trends.
Insurance the Act have certain legal accountabilities.
These actuaries are exposures are further limited through reinsurance.
subject to the disciplines of professional conduct and guidance and have a reporting relationship to the directors of the relevant insurance Market Risk company and to the FSA.
The actuaries have access to their boards Market risk is the risk arising from uctuations in interest and and must report fully and impartially on the financial condition of the exchange rates, share prices and other relevant market prices.
funds, annually quantifying and conrming each funds liabilities and The investment policies for long term and other businesses have solvency position.
The FSA receives a copy of these reports, which are due regard to the nature of liabilities and guarantees and other also subject to audit and overall peer review.
embedded options given to policyholders.
The interest rate risk of such liabilities is normally managed by investing in assets of similar Going Concern duration, where possible.
It is further managed by maintaining The directors have prepared the financial statements on the capital sufficient to cover the consequences of mismatch under going concern basis consistent with their view, formed after a number of adverse scenarios and by the use of derivatives.
making appropriate enquiries, that the Group is operationally The Group is also potentially exposed to loss as a result of and nancially robust.
uctuations in the value of, or income from, assets denominated in foreign currencies.
Balance sheet foreign exchange translation Compliance with the Code exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is For the year ended 31 December 2005, the Company believes actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group Board, which allows between 25% and 75% of net foreign it complied with all principles and provisions of the Code to the extent that they applied to Legal & General Group Plc, except currency assets to be hedged.
for the publication of proxy votes at the Annual General Meeting Credit Risk AGM.
In order that shareholders present were aware of other Credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to loss if another shareholders voting intentions, the details of proxy votes were party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
distributed immediately prior to the AGM.
qxd 31 3 06 2:39 am Page 34 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION Dear Shareholder, dependent upon performance.
Management work in partnership I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report on with our trades union, Amicus, to ensure our pay policies and Directors remuneration for 2005.
This year, we have made a number practices are free from unfair bias.
This is monitored by an annual of additions to the report, which provide greater transparency on equal pay audit.
The policy for executive directors is described in Legal & Generals remuneration policy and objectives.
In particular, more detail below.
we have added new detail on the relative weighting of salary and performance-related pay for executive directors, on bonuses, and Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors on pay below Board level.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a period of three years.
Their performance is reviewed annually.
They may be re-appointed As always, a resolution to vote for the Directors remuneration for a further three years and, if considered appropriate and report will be put to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
I hope that you depending on performance, a final period of three years.
Their dates will support this resolution.
of appointment are shown in their respective biographies on pages 26 to 27.
Fees for the non-executive directors are determined by the Group Board, based on a range of external information and advice set within the aggregate limits contained in the Articles of Association.
The fees for the non-executive directors during 2005 are outlined below.
Sir David Walker The Chairman receives a single fee of 300,000 per annum.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Other non-executive directors receive a base fee of 60,000.
An additional fee of 40,000 is payable for the joint role of Chairman Directors Report on Remuneration of the Remuneration Committee and Vice Chairman.
An additional The report of the Remuneration Committee has been prepared fee of 20,000 is payable to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 as These additional fees reect the responsibility and time commitment amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. required of these roles.
It also describes the Groups compliance with the Combined Code It is expected that non-executive directors will use 50% of their of Corporate Governance in relation to remuneration.
fees, after UK tax, to buy Legal & General shares, to be retained by them for their remaining period of ofce.
There is no remuneration Remuneration Committee other than these non-pensionable fees except where the Company All the members of the Committee are non-executive directors and meets authorised expenses of non-executive directors incurred on are independent of the Group.
The Committee is chaired by Sir David Legal & General activities.
The other members are Beverley Hodson, Ronaldo Schmitz and James Strachan.
By invitation the meetings are also attended by the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Groups Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Resources & The remuneration of the Groups executive directors comprises salary, International Director, Gareth Hoskin, attends as the executive participation in an annual bonus plan paid partly in cash and partly responsible for advising on remuneration policy.
No person is in deferred shares and the Groups Performance Share Plan PSP, present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
which is a long term incentive plan, plus pension and ancillary The remuneration strategy, policy and approach for all staff benets.
The variable elements of pay i. e. the annual bonus plan and are reviewed annually by the Committee.
The Committee considers PSP are designed to provide a strong alignment of interest between the individual and the shareholders through providing rewards which the policy in relation to senior executive remuneration in the context of remuneration structures across the Group as a whole.
All share are linked to the generation of superior returns to shareholders and strong financial performance, and by encouraging executives to schemes are established and monitored by the Committee.
The build and maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
Committee makes recommendations to the Board each year in The chart illustrates the relative proportion of the executive directors respect of the chairman and executive directors remuneration.
remuneration package which is based both on short term and long In March 2006, the recommendations were all accepted.
The terms term performance, as compared with base salary, which demonstrates of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the that a significant proportion of pay is performance related.
Companys website or on request.
When setting remuneration, regard is paid to levels of pay During 2005, the Remuneration Committee appointed New in individual market comparators, related to job size, function Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC as independent advisers to the and sector, and individual and company performance.
NBSC does not provide any other services to the Company, is obtained from a variety of independent sources including other than remuneration advice.
The terms of engagement between NBSC, Towers Perrin, Watson Wyatt, Monks, which is part of the Company and NBSC are available on request.
Where During the year the Remuneration Committee undertook a possible, the practice is to use at least two independent sources formal review of its own effectiveness and is satisfied that it had of information for each individual role.
been operating as an effective Remuneration Committee meeting The market against which the remuneration for the executive all applicable regulatory requirements.
directors is measured is primarily the FTSE 100, with special reference to companies in the UK financial services sector.
Remuneration Policy The Groups approach to remuneration policy is broadly consistent Proportion of Base Salary vs Performance Related Remuneration % for all employees and is designed to support recruitment, motivation and retention.
Remuneration is considered within the overall context Chief Executive of both the sector of which the Group is a part and the Groups Other executive individual businesses.
The policy for the majority of employees directors continues to be to pay around the relevant mid-market level with Salary a package designed to align the interests of employees with those Target bonus Expected value of long term incentive plan of shareholders and with a proportion of total remuneration 34 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005
