qxd 31 3 06 2:47 am Page 19 Group Capital Sub-fund and 5% of the embedded value The Group has a exible capital structure.
of the non profit business.
This transfer is Total capital resources of 7.0bn on an IFRS incremented by the interest paid on internal basis comprise ordinary equity holders capital subordinated debt capital.
4.3bn, surbordinated debt designated as Group Dividend equity 0.4bn, subordinated debt 0.4bn The LTF transfer, together with dividends and unallocated divisible surplus 1.9bn, from the Groups operating subsidiaries, including 0.3bn of Sub-fund.
provides a sound base for our dividend to The Group is required to measure and shareholders.
The final dividend per share monitor its capital resources on a regulatory proposed for 2005 has been increased by as well as an IFRS basis and to comply 5.2% to 3.63p 2004: 3.45p.
The rate of with the minimum capital requirements growth in the final dividend has been of regulators in each territory in which we determined by the Board, having regard operate.
The regulators require more prudent to our model for prospective LTF transfers assumptions than IFRS.
Legal & Generals and other income streams, as well as to total capital resources are substantially in excess of both total regulatory capital and the minimum level of regulatory capital we Fig 15.
Regulatory Capital Surplus are required to hold.
The excess enables 1 2 Group Society the Group to maintain financial strength, As at 31 December 2005 bn bn policyholder security and financial strength Available capital resources 6.8 8.5 ratings while continuing to write profitable Capital resources requirement 4.4 4.1 new business.
Figure 15 compares the Surplus 2.4 4.4 Groups available capital resources with 1.
Estimate the capital resources requirement for each 2.
Long term business only of Legal & General Group Plc and Society.
In 2005, Legal & General established a Group Capital Committee as a sub-committee of the Group Risk and Compliance Fig 16.
Allocation of Capital IFRS basis Committee.
The Group Capital Committee focuses on actively managing both our capital resources and the Groups balance sheet.
Legal & General Figure 16 shows where the Groups Group Plc ordinary equity holders capital, Subordinated debt subordinated debt designated as equity, designated as subordinated debt and senior debt are Other equity 0.4bn subsidiaries held.
In addition, Societys with-profits 1.1bn estate and Sub-fund are also shown.
The Subordinated largest allocation of capital has been made debt 0.4bn to Society, reecting the signicance of this operation and the importance of ensuring its Other debt 1.2bn financial strength to support the long term growth of our business.
Further financial exibility is achieved from Societys 4.5bn of shareholder assets, With-profits Non profit Society business business Shareholder 1.9bn of which are held outside the UK Capital 1.9bn Long Term Fund, the remainder being the With-profits SRC 2.6bn 2 Shareholder Retained Capital SRC.
These 1 estate 0.8bn LGI, LGF, LGN Sub-fund 0.3bn 0.3bn assets maintain the financial strength of Society and fund new business growth.
Long Term Fund UK Long Term Fund LTF Transfer Currently, the LTF transfer is limited Legal & General Assurance Society Limited to the aggregate of the shareholders 1.
With-profits estate of 0.8bn comprises Society unallocated divisible surplus of 1.5bn less the shareholders share share of the with-profits surplus distribution of realistic liabilities of 0.7bn and a smoothed investment return of 7% 2.
LGI Legal & General Insurance: LGF Legal & General France: LGN Legal & General Netherlands of the embedded value of the SRC and the Fig 17.
Analysis of Debt by Type m Senior Medium Term Notes 608 Convertible Bond 509 Dated Subordinated Notes 415 Undated Subordinated Notes 394 Euro Commercial Paper 110 Bank Loans 6 Non Recourse Financing 401 www.
qxd 1 4 06 2:20 pm Page 20 Operating and financial review Finance Directors review continued Financial scale to build on 20 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp018-021.
qxd 1 4 06 2:20 pm Page 21 worldwide equity market performance.
The latter satisfies the The Groups current long term and short Dividend recommendations in future FSAs upper tier II and lower tier II forms term debt ratings are, from Standard of capital for insurance companies.
The periods will similarly be made in the light & Poors, AAand A1 and, from Moodys, Group also makes use of a US$2bn of prospective income ows and equity A1 and P1.
Commercial Paper programme, which market conditions at the time.
Tax facilitates access to both international and Financing and Liquidity The reported rate of tax on the EEV basis domestic money markets.
In 2005, a 1bn five During 2005, the Group has reviewed the was 27% 2004: 29%.
The principal reasons year syndicated committed revolving credit arrangements for nancing the capital for the rate being slightly lower than the facility was established replacing 580m of required to write new individual protection bilateral facilities.
These facilities satisfy the UK corporate tax rate of 30% were the lower business in the UK.
Groups liquidity and working capital needs.
rate of tax on shareholder net worth and Previously, much of this capital In June 2005, the Group issued 600m the fact that income attributable to minority of dated subordinated debt with a coupon requirement had been nanced through interests did not give rise to a tax charge.
This debt, which was swapped quota share reinsurance treaties, under The EEV result includes a 276m into sterling, will be used to repay part which a high proportion of the premium charge, representing a one-off reduction in of the convertible bond, which matures in was paid to the reinsurer, which also paid the embedded value arising from the effect 2006.
The debt has been classied as lower the same proportion of the claim.
In return of UK tax changes.
During 2005, our 400m the reinsurer met a large part of the initial Act 2005 included provisions which change undated subordinated notes upper tier capital requirement.
Following its review the way in which investment return is II capital, which we raised in March 2004, of these arrangements, the Group has apportioned between categories of business.
were required to be reclassied as equity put in place revised reinsurance treaties These changes will result in signicantly in the IFRS statement.
We have subsequently which separate the mortality risk from higher taxable pensions business profits taken action to amend the terms of the nancing.
The revised arrangements will in the non profit part of the LTF fund from notes so that, in 2006, they will revert enhance the embedded value of new 2005 onwards.
protection business, and give the Group Total debt at the end of 2005 was more exibility in negotiating our future 2.0bn 2004: 1.5bn plus 0.4bn non reinsurance programmes.
The debt is analysed by Access to the capital markets is type in Figure 17: 2.0bn 2004: 1.5bn maintained through a 2bn Medium Term carries a xed rate of interest.
The weighted Note MTN programme, which allows for average cost of the Groups core borrowings Andrew Palmer debt capital to be raised in both senior and during 2005 was 5.3% p. a.
2004: 4.9% p. a.. Group Director Finance funds under management The Groups total of 208bn of funds under management comprised 204bn managed by Legal & General Investment Management, with the remainder primarily managed by our overseas subsidiaries.
qxd 31 3 06 2:46 am Page 22 Customer Experience Operating and financial review Every experience which our customers Corporate social responsibility have with Legal & General is critically impacted by the behaviour and attitude of our employees.
They include not just our customer and adviser servicing teams, but everyone in the Company, from our actuaries who design our products through to our computer systems experts who deliver our I. T. support network.
Employee recruitment, training and performance management are key aspects of our customer experience strategy.
During 2005, around 1,400 managers, from the front line through to our executive directors, attended a one day customer experience workshop to learn about the importance of focusing even more thoroughly on our customers and to understand their role in delivering have spent the bulk of my career CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY our customer experience vision.
within Legal & Generals Investment Management business and have RNIB I am delighted to have accordingly had the opportunity to In 2005, Legal & General supported the observe and assess many leading British Royal National Institute of the Blind RNIB this opportunity, at the Icompanies.
I was struck how often Vacation Schemes, which offer blind and outset of my time as performance excellence is associated partially sighted children, who attend Legal & Generals Chief with a companys adherence to strong mainstream schools, the opportunity Corporate Social Responsibility CSR values.
to experience sporting activities, gain Executive, to confirm my Legal & General is, I believe, an excellent new skills and have fun in a safe and strong personal support for supervised environment.
Held in the company: an opinion which I hope is summer holidays, each scheme is led shared widely.
I have no doubt that, when the principles of Corporate by expert RNIB staff and supported Legal & Generals performance is assessed, Social Responsibility.
by other qualied professionals and for example, by our customers, our staff volunteers, who are at the heart of or our owners, a part of that assessment the holidays, whether singing round will be a review of our approach to our the campre, wall climbing, rafting social, environmental and ethical impacts.
Our CSR Report, which can be found online at www.
com csr, will Fundraising for Crisis assist in that assessment.
One principle to In the run-up to Christmas, a brand new fundraising initiative was piloted which I am absolutely committed is that at our Kingswood and Hove ofces.
For of striving for improvement in everything one week, hundreds of staff swapped we do.
I am, therefore, very keen to their usual restaurant meals for a more receive views and comments on how either modest bread and soup lunch to raise our CSR Report or our CSR programme could be improved.
On our website, you will nd details of how you can provide us with feedback.
At the heart of what we regard to be our Corporate Responsibilities is our commitment to our customers.
Our business model is founded upon delivering good value products which are t for our customers purposes, which meet their expectations, and which are available as widely as possible, to as many prospective customers as possible.
We are fully supportive of the Association of British Insurers ABI recent Customer Experience 22 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp022-025.
qxd 31 3 06 2:46 am Page 23 initiative and we seek to apply the Top Sail 4 Cancer: Yachts hired by principles of Treating Customers Fairly Legal & General for the Sail 4 Cancer throughout the whole of our business.
race, ready for departure in Cardiff Bay.
Whilst we will be vigilant in protecting Far left Fundraising for Crisis: Staff in Kingswood encourage their colleagues ourselves against the risk of fraud in to support Crisis.
claims for policy benets or compensation, Left RNIB: Blind and partially sighted we wish to be judged as being at the children enjoy a Royal National Institute of the Blind Vacation, supported by forefront of Customer Care within Legal & General.
Equally important to treating our customers fairly is that we should treat Sail 4 Cancer our employees fairly.
As a consequence, In September 2005 we supported three we not only operate an Equal Pay policy teams of employees from across the but also encourage diversity, opportunities Company to take part in a four day based on a fair and open selection process money for Crisis, the national charity for sailing race across the Irish Sea, in order homeless people.
Well over 5,000 was raised and an environment which respects the need to raise money for Sail 4 Cancer, a charity for Crisis during the aptly-named Soupa Star which provides support to cancer for a proper work life balance, especially week, which made a real difference to Crisis sufferers and their families.
The 21 staff for those with family responsibilities.
members raised 57,000 for the charity Legal & Generals employment policies including a 21,000 contribution from are concerned not just with the way the Give As You Earn Legal & General, making the race one Company treats its employees but also During the final quarter of 2005, we ran of Legal & Generals largest fundraising the way our employees treat each other.
a campaign to enhance employees events of the year.
We act vigorously against proven cases awareness of our Give As You Earn GAYE of bullying or discrimination.
Our Ethics Scheme and increase the number of donors.
Encouraging employees to save for retirement policy, developed, as are so many of our Employee participation in GAYE has now At the suggestion of the Department employment policies, in conjunction with risen to over 10% for the first time, resulting for Work and Pensions, Legal & General in Legal & General becoming one piloted an initiative to encourage Amicus, our recognised trades union, is of the first companies to receive a Gold employees to make or increase both wide ranging and rmly enforced.
Award at the launch of the new Payroll contributions to their occupational Legal & General Investment Giving Quality Mark in January 2006.
Staff in the dened contribution Management is one of the UKs leading Quality Mark is funded by the Government schemes were invited to attend investors, with over 200bn of funds under and recognises organisations which make presentations to learn about the management.
Some years ago, we published payroll giving available to staff and foster a importance of making their own a booklet detailing our stance on Socially culture of committed giving in the workplace.
contributions, which Legal & General Responsible Investment.
The principles We are delighted that Legal & General has matches up to 5%.
They were also invited outlined in that document remain valid been recognised for its commitment in this to sign a pledge to start to contribute or today.
As one of the UKs largest investors, area and are proud of the generosity of increase their contributions when they we recognise that we have a special so many of our staff.
Although this does not make us the markets policeman, www.
