Corporate governance APPlicAtion oF comBinED coDE PrinciPlEs chairman and chief Executive The Directors are committed to the principles of corporate governance There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Company has Board, setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness, facilitating the applied the principles of section 1 of the Code, including both the main contribution of the Non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive is principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code responsible for formulating strategy and objectives and for their delivery except in respect of certain matters as reported below.
Further explanation once agreed by the Board.
of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out in the Directors remuneration report and Audit Committee report.
Attendance During the year the Directors attended the following number of meetings thE BoArD oF DirEctors of the Board and its Committees: As of 1 January 2005 the Board comprised three Executive Directors and Audit remuneration nomination five Non-executive Directors including the Chairman, Brian Lavers.
Alan Board committee committee committee Cole was the only Non-executive Director considered to be independent in Number of meetings 11 4 1 1 accordance with the Code.
A second Independent Non-executive Director, Number of meetings attended: Keith Henry was appointed to the board on 31 March 2005.
He was appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees at this date and Brian Lavers 10 4 1 1 was designated Senior Independent Director SID on 14 September Michael Calvey 8 4 1 1 2005.
As SID he was responsible for leading the evaluation of Board Andrew Rose 10 n a n a n a effectiveness in 2005.
Pierre Lasry 7 n a n a n a Andrei Pannikov 8 n a n a n a Brian Lavers has announced that he will be stepping down as Chairman as Atul Gupta 8 n a n a n a at the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 24 May but will continue to serve as a Non-executive Director.
The Board considers Alan Cole 8 4 1 1 that he will be independent in accordance with the Code.
He will be Finian OSullivan 11 n a n a n a replaced as Chairman by Keith Henry.
1 Keith Henry 5 3 0 n a The Non-executive Directors bring varied commercial experience 1 Keith Henry was appointed to the Board on 31 March 2005. to Board and Committee deliberations.
They are appointed, subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM During the year 2005 there were a total of eight Board meetings held in the after their appointment.
Biographical details of the Directors, are set out in pages 18 to 19. information and development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year and a number of additional meetings.
The attendance record of the Directors is shown briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
Members of the Board may take independent professional advice at the The Board approves the Groups strategy, investment plans and annual budget, and regularly reviews operational and financial performance, risk Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
During the year the Company Secretary, Hywel John, has provided updates to the Board management and investment controls, and health, safety, environment and community matters.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to on relevant governance matters, whilst the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting developments through presentations from the Board for decision including expenditure commitments over certain specified minima, investments, disposals, borrowings and hedging policy.
management and the external auditors.
The Board programme includes presentations from management at every meeting which increases the The Audit Committee has responsibility for scrutinising the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls Non-executive Directors understanding of the business and the sector.
and the internal control and risk management systems.
The Board has delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee to set the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board Directors and has responsibility followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
for succession planning at Board level.
27 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation In addition, the Committee made its annual review of the necessity for During the year the Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its the establishment of an internal audit function but currently considers that, performance and effectiveness, and its Committees.
Directors were asked given the extent of central control of the operations of the Group and the to complete an extensive questionnaire, to provide comments on Board direct involvement of senior management in control activities, there is no and Committee procedures and effectiveness, and to assess their own requirement for such a function.
contributions to discussions and decision making.
The questionnaires were then reviewed by the Senior Independent Director and key themes were remuneration committee discussed at a subsequent Board meeting.
The evaluation process will be This Committee, which comprises Brian Lavers Chairman, Alan Cole, reviewed and developed over the current year.
Michael Calvey and Keith Henry appointed 31 March 2005, determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees re-election are considered and agreed by the Board.
Further details of the Companys The Memorandum and Articles of Association require that at least one policies on remuneration are given in the Remuneration Committees report third of the Board must go forward for reappointment at the AGM each on pages 30 to 34. year, together with all new Directors appointed since the previous AGM.
Accordingly, no Director will serve a term in excess of three years without nomination committee presenting themselves for re-election.
The Directors who are due to go The Nomination Committee meets when necessary and during 2005 forward for reappointment in the forthcoming AGM are Michael Calvey, comprised Brian Lavers Chairman, Alan Cole and Michael Calvey.
Brian Lavers and Finian OSullivan.
Keith Henry was appointed to the Committee on 28 March 2006 and nominated Chairman of the Committee from that date.
Finian OSullivan Board committees is not a member of the Committee although he is usually invited to The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, attend meetings.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees as set out below.
The terms of reference of these Committees may be found on The Committee led the recruitment process for the appointment of Keith the Groups website: www.
Henry as a Non-executive Director on 31 March 2005 which involved the use of external search consultants.
Audit committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Alan Cole and further comprises Brian intErnAl controls Lavers, Michael Calvey and, Keith Henry appointed 31 March 2005.
The The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating Board has determined that Michael Calvey has recent and relevant financial and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been experience.
Representatives of senior management and the external in place from the start of the financial year to the date of approval of this auditors are usually invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system of Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The external auditors have internal controls for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
system of internal control can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the The role of the Audit Committee is to scrutinise the integrity of the Groups risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
financial statements, review the Groups risk management and internal controls procedures, monitor the independence and objectivity of the The Groups risk and controls framework covers all material risks and external auditors and to approve their engagement to supply non-audit controls including those of an operational, financial, and compliance nature.
During the year the Committee has met on four occasions.
Internal control procedures consist, inter alia, of formal delegations of It reviewed the annual 2004 and interim 2005 financial statements expenditure authority by the Board to executive management, and controls and the restatement of the 2004 financial information according to relating to key stages of transactions including supplier approval, contract International Financial Reporting Standards together with accompanying signature, and payment release.
Expenditure delegations are reviewed by announcements paying particular attention to the sufficiency and clarity the Board at least annually and approved together with the annual budget.
of disclosure and any significant matters of judgement.
The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls A Risk Committee comprising the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating and the internal control and risk management systems, as set out in Officer and the Company Secretary is charged with identifying, monitoring more detail below.
and managing risk generally and is required to review and formally approve all material contracts.
The Risk Committee meets on an ad hoc basis as During the year, the Committee considered in detail the results of the necessary.
These control processes are complemented by effective 2004 audit, reviewed the external auditors overall audit plan for 2005 and, monitoring at each stage in the cycle of transactions and by a regular approved their remuneration and terms of engagement.
to year-end the Committee has also assessed in detail the results of the 2005 audit.
Having deemed the audit to be effective, and considered their The Audit Committee conducted its annual review of risk and controls prior independence in the context of the non-audit remuneration, the Committee to year-end and reported its findings to the Board.
Each potential risk was recommended to the Board Deloittes re-appointment as auditors.
assessed and ranked in terms of potential impact on financial statements, 28 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 impact on business value, probability of occurrence, shareholder tolerance A.
7.2 There was no formal confirmation to shareholders as to the level and cost of mitigation.
Policies and measures in place were reviewed effectiveness of performance and commitment to the role of Nonand recommended actions identified.
executive Director exhibited by Andrei Pannikov and Alan Cole in connection with the resolutions presented at the Annual General The Directors consider that the frequency of Board meetings and level Meeting in May 2005 to re-elect them as Directors.
of detail presented to the Board for its consideration in relation to the B.
2.1 The Nominations Committee did not include a majority of operations of the Group provide an appropriate process to identify, evaluate Independent Non-executive Directors during 2005.
A second and manage significant risks relevant to its operations on a continuous independent Non-executive Director, Keith Henry, was appointed basis, and this process is considered to be in accordance with Internal as Chairman of this Committee on 24 March 2006.
Control Guidance for Directors contained in the Code Turnball Guidance.
In order to achieve a greater formalisation of the review process a policy B. remuneration was adopted early 2005 for risk and internal controls matters to be B.
2.1 The Remuneration Committee did not include at least three included as a specific agenda item at every Board meeting, when Independent Non-executive Directors in 2005. any control failings or weaknesses are reported on by management.
2.3 The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee were not made publicly available via the Companys website until The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal 1 November 2005. controls and risk management during the year, consider that the system of internal control operated appropriately throughout the financial year and c. Accountability and audit up to the date that the financial statements were signed.
C. 2.3 The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee were not made publicly available via the Companys website until 1 November 2005. communicAtion with shArEholDErs C. 3.1 The Audit Committee did not include at least three Independent Burren Energy attaches great importance to shareholder communication Non-executive Directors in 2005, nor was it comprised solely of and maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders, including Independent Non-executive Directors.
presentations following announcements of annual and interim results.
C. 3.4 No arrangements were in place during 2005 whereby an employee Burren has a website which contains a range of corporate information could, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in and is updated regularly.
matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee has requested that management put appropriate arrangements in During 2005 several of the major shareholders had direct representation place for all operating locations during 2006. on the Board.
Communication with other major shareholders occurred via meetings during the year.
The Board is kept informed by the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer as to the views of the Companys shareholders.
comPliAncE with thE coDE Provisions Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, the Company has been in compliance with section 1 of the provisions of the Code, except for the following matters: A.
2.1 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has not been set out in writing and considered formally by the Board.
3.2 T he Code requires at least half of the Board to be Independent Nonexecutives.
In fact, only two Independent Non-executive Directors served on the Board during 2005.
The second of these, Keith Henry, was not appointed to the Board until 31 March 2005.
3.3 The Board appointed Keith Henry to act as its Senior Independent Director SID on 14 September 2005.
No SID had been appointed prior to this date.
4.1 The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee were not made publicly available via the Companys website until 1 November 2005.
4.4 The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors were not publicly available during 2005.
These are to be made available shortly on the Companys website.
29 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
