CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE London Stock Exchange plc is committed to the appropriate for Gary Allen to continue to act The Board also views the Companys brand highest standards of corporate governance and as Senior Director and to chair the Audit and reputation as a Recognised Investment the Company has complied with all provisions of Committee given his wide experience and long Exchange as important assets of the Company the Combined Code 2003 Combined Code term perspective on the Exchanges business and protection of brand and reputation are key except as explained in the Report below.
which he brings to both roles and which the parts of the Boards role.
Board has found particularly helpful during the The Board took steps during 2004 05 to seek Offer Period.
Given his length of service, Gary At each of its meetings the Board receives further compliance with the 2003 Combined Allen will stand for re-election on an annual a full written report from the CEO on financial Code.
Ian Salter and Michael Marks who basis as required by the Combined Code.
performance and key activities in each of the were not considered independent under the divisions.
The executive management team Combined Code because they were, or had The Board considers that it continues to be present to the Board on their business been in the previous three years, employed appropriate for Peter Meinertzhagen to sit responsibilities on a regular basis and also by one of the Exchanges customers, stepped on the Remuneration Committee given his present at the Boards periodic strategy sessions.
down from the Board following the AGM in knowledge and experience of the specialist 2004 and at least half the Board excluding the nature of the market in which the Company The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman are determined independent under operates, which is considered to be helpful to are distinct and separate with a clear division the Combined Code.
The Board sought to the Committee in developing its remuneration of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the recruit additional independent non-executive strategy for the London Stock Exchange.
Board and is responsible for ensuring its directors during the year.
The Chief Executive has delegated well advanced when the Company entered an Board of Directors authority from, and is responsible to, the Board Offer Period under the rules of the City Code The Board is responsible to shareholders for for managing the Companys business.
on 13 December 2004, at which point the achieving the Companys strategic objectives process was suspended.
and is accountable to shareholders for financial The Board has six scheduled meetings in and operational performance.
There is a written addition to two offsite strategy meetings a The Audit and Remuneration Committees list of matters which may be approved only by year.
In 2004 05 the Board held 12 meetings.
have not been comprised of fully independent the Board including: The Chairman has met non-executive directors directors in that Gary Allen and Peter without the presence of executive directors on Meinertzhagen, who sit on the Audit and the Companys corporate strategy: a number of occasions throughout the year.
Remuneration Committee respectively, are not determined to be independent in accordance the annual budget: Directors have the benefit of indemnity with the revised Combined Code.
Until they arrangements from the Company in respect stood down from the Board in July 2004 Ian policies in relation to risk management, health of liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce.
Salter and Michael Marks were also members and safety and environmental matters: In respect of those liabilities for which directors of the Audit Committee and Ian Salter was also may not be indemnified, the Company purchased Senior Director.
The Board has not appointed increases or variations to borrowing facilities: and obtained a directors and ofcers liability a Senior Director who is independent under insurance policy throughout 2004 05.
committing to major capital expenditure insurance cover was renewed at the beginning or acquisitions: and of 2005 06.
Neither the Companys indemnity Gary Allen was appointed Senior Director in nor insurance provides cover in the event that 2004 and is also Chairman of the Audit dividend policy.
the director is proved to have acted fraudulently Committee.
The Board considers that it is or dishonestly.
24 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 Meetings Board 1 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Total Number of Meetings 12 3 4 2 12 Number of Meetings attended in 2004 05 Dr Chris Gibson-Smith 12 2 11 Mrs Clara Furse 12 11 Mr Jonathan Howell 12 12 Mr Gary Allen 10 3 12 Baroness Janet Cohen 12 3 4 2 Mr Oscar Fanjul 10 3 2 Mr Peter Meinertzhagen 10 3 9 2 Mr Nigel Stapleton 10 1 42 10 Mr Robert Webb 11 4 0 1 Established when the Company entered an Offer Period 2 Appointed to Audit Committee in October 2004 Board balance and independence Board Committees 2004, all members of the Committee are The Board comprises nine directors, Offer Period Board Committee considered to be independent non-executive the Chairman who was independent on When the Company entered an Offer Period directors as dened by the Combined Code.
appointment, two executive directors and six on 13 December 2004 it appointed a Board non-executive directors.
The Board considers Committee to consider all matters relating to The Board is satisfied that various members that the Board is of the appropriate size and potential offers for the Company on behalf of the Committee have recent and relevant with the right mix of skills and experience given of the Board.
The Committee comprises Chris financial experience.
The Board considers Gibson-Smith, Clara Furse, Jonathan Howell, all non-executive directors to be independent Gary Allen, Nigel Stapleton and Peter Role of the Audit Committee in character and there are no relationships or Meinertzhagen.
It has met 12 times between The Committee has written terms of reference, circumstances which are likely to affect their 13 December 2004 and 31 March 2005. which are available from the Company character or independent judgement.
However Secretary or on the corporate website at the Board believes that neither Gary Allen nor Remuneration Committee www.
Peter Meinertzhagen can be determined to The Committee members as at 31 March 2005 be independent under the revised Combined were: Nigel Stapleton Chairman, Janet Cohen, Meetings Code.
In the case of Gary Allen this is because Peter Meinertzhagen and Robert Webb.
The Committee meets at least three times of his length of service on the Board, having The Committee normally invites the Chief a year and has an agenda linked to events in the been appointed in1994 and, in the case of Executive, Head of Human Resources and Companys financial calendar.
Peter Meinertzhagen, because he is engaged Director of Finance to attend part of the meeting by one of the Companys major customers, and the Chairman to attend throughout.
The Committee normally invites the Director ABN Amro.
The Committee has written terms of reference of Finance, Head of Finance, Head of Internal and meets at least twice a year to review and Audit and senior representatives from the Directors serving on the Boards committees present recommendations to the Board external auditors to attend its meetings.
Other together with biographical details are identied regarding remuneration and conditions of senior managers are invited to present such on the Board of Directors pages 22 and 23. service of the Chairman, Chief Executive and reports as are required by the Committee.
executive directors, including the grant of Performance evaluation entitlements under the Companys share The Committee meets privately with the The annual performance evaluation of the schemes.
A separate Remuneration report is  partner on an annual Board and its Committees was undertaken set out on pages 27 to 33. basis.
It has the opportunity at each meeting in the summer of 2004 and was conducted to review any issues with the external auditors by the Company Secretary using a detailed Audit Committee and with the Head of Internal Audit without questionnaire and included consideration of The Committee members as at 31 March 2005 any other members of executive management interaction with management: balance of Board were: Gary Allen Chairman, Janet Cohen, being present.
time spent on consideration of strategic matters: Oscar Fanjul and Nigel Stapleton.
Nigel understanding of the business: composition of Stapleton was appointed to the Committee the Board: and the administrative arrangements on 18 October 2004.
Michael Marks and Ian for the work of the Board.
The report on the Salter were members until their retirement Board evaluation was considered and discussed from the Board on 14 July 2004. by the Board and specic actions were agreed.
The Senior Director has met separately with As explained above, with the exception of non-executive directors without the Chairman Gary Allen and Ian Salter and Michael Marks present to discuss the Chairmans performance.
until their retirement from the Board in July 25 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Main activities of the Audit Committee appointment of additional independent directors Risk management effective risk in the year to 31 March 2005 supported by external search consultants.
management is the responsibility of all line During the year, the Committee reviewed However as explained above, this process managers and each business area updates the following: was suspended when the Company entered and evaluates its documented key risks and an Offer Period.
The Committee has written controls as necessary.
Periodic reports annual report and interim results: terms of reference which are available on the conrming the effectiveness of all significant Companys website.
control policies and procedures are produced implementation of International Financial by management and reviewed by the most Reporting Standards: Internal control senior executive in each business area.
The Board confirms that procedures have been The Companys internal audit department reports from the Companys internal audit in place throughout the year and up to the date of reviews these reports and independently department on the effectiveness of the this report which comply fully with the guidance summarises any significant matters arising Companys risk management procedures, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the for the Audit Committee.
details of key audit findings and actions Combined Code published by the Internal taken by management: Control Working Party of the Institute of Detailed procedures procedures and Chartered Accountants in England and Wales controls for key business areas including effectiveness of the Companys system in September 1999. the Companys finance function are set of internal control: out in detailed departmental manuals.
These The Companys systems of internal control over are reviewed and kept up-to-date to meet internal audit plan: business, operational, financial and compliance changing business needs.
risks are designed to help the Company meet its the performance of the Companys internal business objectives by appropriately managing, Relations with shareholders audit department: rather than eliminating, the risks to those The Company, including the Chairman, conducts objectives.
The controls can only provide regular dialogue with institutional investors, reports from external auditors on their audit, reasonable, not absolute, assurance against holding meetings throughout the year in the proposed audit scope and fees and auditor material misstatement or loss.
The Board has UK and on overseas visits.
Despite restrictions independence: ultimate responsibility for the systems of internal on normal investor contact arising from potential control and, through the Audit Committee, offers for the Company, senior management the Companys insurance programme: has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems.
held over 100 meetings during the year.
The Board is committed to their continual Communication with shareholders also takes the Companys whistleblowing enhancement.
place by way of annual and interim reports, procedures: and quarterly trading updates and through the The principal features of the Companys presentation of preliminary and interim results, the Companys business continuity control framework are described under the which are made accessible to all investors and security procedures.
following headings: by webcasts available on the Investor Relations section of our website at Independence of external auditors Delegation of authority matters reserved www.
The Committee has adopted a policy on nonfor Board approval only are clearly dened.
audit services designed to ensure that the Executive directors have general responsibility During the year directors received a report provision of such services by the external for making and implementing operational from the investor relations team at each of auditor does not impair the auditors objectivity decisions and for overseeing the Companys its scheduled meetings, including an analysis and independence.
The policy, based upon business.
All directors have access to of share price movements, share register APB Ethical Standard 5, Non-Audit Services the advice and services of the Company composition, feedback from key institutional Provided to Audit Clients and ICAEW Secretary.
In addition all directors are able, if shareholders and views from brokers on major Guidance for Audit Committees, defines both necessary, to obtain independent professional issues.
The Senior Director, Gary Allen, is the type and value of services that require advice at the Companys expense.
available to shareholders if they have concerns prior authorisation of the Committee and the which contact through the normal channels services that the external auditor is prohibited Planning and reporting the Board approves of Chairman, Chief Executive and Director of from providing.
The Committee annually reviews strategic decisions and the budget for the Finance has not resolved or for which such all non-audit services provided by the external forthcoming year and receives a report on contact is inappropriate.
No such meetings auditor to ensure compliance with the policy.
key business matters from the Chief have been held since Gary Allens appointment.
The Committee remains satisfied with the Executive at each meeting.
Monthly reports objectivity and independence of the Companys to management contain key performance The Annual General Meeting AGM provides external auditors.
indicators and compare actual financial the opportunity for shareholders to question the performance with the annual budget or Board and meet directors informally after the Nomination Committee forecast.
Management action is taken where event.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration The Nomination Committee members as at variances arise and revised forecasts are and Nomination Committees are available to 31 March 2005 were: Chris Gibson-Smith prepared on a regular basis.
The procedures for the AGM Chairman, Janet Cohen, Oscar Fanjul, Nigel are compliant with the Combined Code and the Stapleton and Robert Webb.
The Committee Audit Committee the Companys internal event is normally attended by all directors.
normally invites the Chief Executive to attend.
audit department reports to the Audit The Committee meets as necessary to make Committee on the effectiveness of key risk Health, safety and environment recommendations to the Board on all new Board management and internal control procedures The Companys approach to health, safety and appointments and to consider executive and and appropriate action is taken where the environment is set out in our Corporate & Board succession planning.
The principal task of necessary.
The Audit Committee also receives Social Responsibility statement on pages 20 the Committee in 2004 05 was to consider the reports from the Companys external auditors.
26 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005
