Corporate governance With the exception of the relevant provisions in the Companies all provisions of the Code.
During the period to 31 May 2005, Ordinance, Gibraltar does not have a system of corporate ahead of the proposed listing of the Companys Shares, governance.
The Company, however, applies the principles set measures were taken to implement a corporate governance out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance annexed regime within the Company which was compliant with the to the Listing Rules the Code.
These measures included the appointment, on 31 May 2005, of the Non-Executive Directors and Chief Executive Officer Throughout the period from Admission to 31 December 2005, the to the Board, the adoption of a schedule of matters reserved to Company has complied fully with the Codes principles except the Board and the appointment of the Audit, Remuneration and in the three instances detailed below, being the Chairmans Nominations Committees.
As a result, from 31 May 2005 until second FTSE 100 chairmanship, the Chairmans initial fixed term Admission, the Company was compliant with the Code, except of service and the independence of the Board.
in respect of the Chairmans initial fixed term of service and with Prior to Admission, the Company was not required to comply the caveat that, on the Company being admitted to the FTSE with the Listing Rules and the Code and therefore from 1 January 100, the Chairman would be the chairman of two FTSE 100 2005 until 31 May 2005 the Company was not compliant with companies.
The Board In accordance with the Code, the Company is headed by an effective Board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company whilst ensuring that a framework of prudent and effective controls exists in order effectively to assess and manage risk.
Date of Date of last Director Age Position Committees Appointment Re-appointment Michael Jackson 56 Chairman Chairman of the Nominations 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Committee and member of to the Board and the Ethics Committee the Committees Richard Segal 42 Chief Executive Member of the 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Officer Nominations Committee to the Board and the Nominations Committee Martin Weigold 40 Group Finance 4 April 2005 24 June 2005 Director Anurag Dikshit 34 Group Operations 4 April 2005 24 June 2005 Director Vikrant Bhargava 33 Group Marketing 4 April 2005 24 June 2005 Director Brian Larcombe 52 Deputy Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 and Senior Committee and a member to the Board and Independent Director of the Audit and the Committees Nominations Committees Lars Berg 58 Independent Member of the Audit, 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Non-Executive Nominations and Ethics to the Board and Director Committees the Committees Nigel Kenny 57 Independent Chairman of the Audit 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Non-Executive Committee and a member to the Board and Director of the Remuneration and the Committees Nominations Committees Janos Libor 40 Non-Executive Member of the Nominations 19 October 2005 Director and Ethics Committees to the Committees on 5 December 2005 Rod Perry 60 Independent Chairman of the Ethics 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Non-Executive Committee and member of to the Board and Director the Remuneration and the Committees Nominations Committees Set out in the Board of Directors section are biographies for each of the Directors.
66 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 The Board meets regularly in Gibraltar, at least eight times a year and minutes of these meetings are recorded.
Set out below are details of the Directors attendance record.
Number of meetings held attended in the period 30 June 2005 to 31 December 2005 Audit Ethics Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Lars Berg 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 N A Vikrant Bhargava 4 4 N A N A N A N A Anurag Dikshit 4 4 N A N A N A N A Michael Jackson 4 4 N A 2 2 1 1 N A Nigel Kenny 4 4 2 2 N A 1 1 2 3 Brian Larcombe 4 4 2 2 N A 1 1 3 3 Janos Libor 2 2 N A N A Rod Perry 4 4 N A 2 2 1 1 3 3 Richard Segal 4 4 N A N A 1 1 N A Martin Weigold 4 4 N A N A N A N A Janos Libor was appointed to the Board on 19 October 2005 and to the Ethics and Nominations Committees after the last meeting of these Committees had been held in 2005.
The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters Board independence reserved to the Board, setting out which issues must be referred The Code recommends that at least half the members of a to the Board for decision.
Examples of topics covered by the board excluding the chairman should be non-executive schedule are long-term strategy, budgets and forecasts, the directors who are independent in character and judgement and convening of Shareholder meetings, capital expenditure over free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, certain limits, restructuring of the Group, changes of share or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Until 19 October capital, approval of new loan facilities, dividend policy, 2005 the Company had four independent Non-Executive acquisitions and disposals.
Directors excluding the Chairman Brian Larcombe, Lars Berg, Nigel Kenny and Rod Perry and four Executive Directors The Chairman has also met with the Non-Executive Directors Richard Segal, Martin Weigold, Vikrant Bhargava and without the Executive Directors present during the year ended Anurag Dikshit and therefore complied with the Code.
Subsequent to the year end, led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors met On 19 October 2005 Janos Libor was appointed to the Board as without the Chairman present to review the latters performance a Non-Executive Director.
As disclosed in the Companys Listing during the year ended 31 December 2005.
Particulars, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and, amongst others, Ruth Parasol and The Company has directors and officers liability insurance and Russell DeLeon dated 14 June 2005, these Principal Shareholders prospectus indemnity cover in place.
have the right to nominate for appointment to the Board a suitable person whilst they together have an interest of 15% or The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer more of the Companys issued share capital.
Ruth Parasol and In accordance with the Code, the roles of Chairman and Chief Russell DeLeon nominated Janos Libor and after considering the Executive Officer are not exercised by the same individual.
The nomination, the Nominations Committee recommended and different responsibilities of both roles have been clearly set out by the Board approved the appointment.
Owing to the the Board in a schedule of responsibilities of the Chairman and background behind his appointment, Janos Libor cannot be the Chief Executive Officer.
considered to be an independent director and therefore, The Code requires that no individual should be appointed to a between 19 October 2005 and 31 December 2005, slightly less second chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
As disclosed in the than half of the Board excluding the Chairman comprised Listing Particulars, Mr Jackson is currently the chairman of The Non-Executive Directors considered by the Board to be Sage Group plc, a FTSE 100 company.
As anticipated in the independent.
Nevertheless, the Board is satisfied that it has Listing Particulars, following Admission, the Company joined the maintained a sufficient degree of independence and continues FTSE 100 on 19 September 2005 and therefore the requirements to do so.
The Board is currently going through a search and of the Code in this respect have not been met.
The Board, selection process in order to appoint a new independent however, is satisfied that Mr Jackson has been able to devote Non-Executive Director and restore the balance of independent sufficient time to his duties as Chairman of PartyGaming Plc.
and non-independent Directors serving on the Board and an Subsequent to the Companys year end, on 6 February 2006, announcement regarding the appointment of an independent The Sage Group plc announced that Michael Jackson had Non-Executive Director is expected to be made in due course.
decided to retire as chairman of that company with effect Brian Larcombe has been appointed the Senior Independent from 1 August 2006.
Director and is available to Shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director has not resolved or for which contact is inappropriate.
67 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Corporate governance continued Appointments to the Board advice at the expense of the Company where they judge The Board has adopted a formal, rigorous and transparent it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Each Committee of the Board also has authority under its terms The Board has appointed a Nominations Committee to lead of reference to obtain outside legal or other independent the process of appointment and make recommendations professional advice if the Committee considers it necessary in to the Board.
Michael Jackson chairs the Nominations order to perform its duties.
Committee and Brian Larcombe, Lars Berg, Nigel Kenny, Each new Director receives a full induction on joining the Board Janos Libor appointed 6 December 2005, Rod Perry and and major Shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet Richard Segal are members.
The Nominations Committee new Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures that all has adopted terms of reference approved by the Board Directors continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity and these are available on the Companys website with the Company required to fulfil their roles on the Board and www.
As Janos Libor is a nominee of two of the Principal Shareholders, the Nominations Committee did not use an external search Performance evaluation consultancy for this appointment.
An external search Despite the Company only becoming a listed company on consultancy has been engaged by the Nominations Committee 30 June 2005, the Directors have undertaken a formal evaluation and given a description of the role and capabilities required of their performance in the six months to 31 December 2005. for suitable candidates to fulfil the role of independent At this early stage of the Boards life the evaluation focused Non-Executive Director.
The Nominations Committee will review on the effectiveness of the Chairman, the Board and its the candidates put forward by the search consultancy before Committees.
The evaluation was conducted using a detailed making a shortlist of candidates for members of the Nominations questionnaire utilising the suggestions made on good practice Committee to interview.
Following the interview stage the in The Higgs Report.
The results of the evaluation have been Nominations Committee will make recommendations to the reviewed by the Board.
The performance of the Chairman has Board as to which candidates are best suited to the selection been reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior criteria.
An announcement regarding an appointment of an Independent Director, without the Chairman being present.
independent Non-Executive Director will be made in due course.
Re-appointments The Code recommends that notice or contract periods for In accordance with the Code, the Companys Articles state that Directors should be set at one year or less.
Michael Jackson has each Director must retire and stand for re-appointment at the an appointment letter governing the terms of his appointment first AGM following their original appointment.
Consequently, all as Chairman from Admission under which he is appointed the Directors with the exception of Janos Libor who had yet to for an initial term until 21 March 2008.
The appointment may be appointed, retired and were re-appointed at the Companys be terminated by PartyGaming giving 12 months notice to AGM on 24 June 2005, being the first AGM following their original Michael Jackson to expire at any time on or after 21 March 2008. appointments.
Janos Libor will retire at the 2006 AGM, being The Board is satisfied that the length of Michael Jacksons initial the first AGM subsequent to his appointment and is seeking fixed term was necessary to secure his services as Chairman.
Notice periods for the other Directors comply with the Code.
The Articles also dictate that at every AGM one-third of the On 28 February 2006 the Company announced that Richard Directors or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the Segal, the current Chief Executive Officer, would be leaving the number nearest to one-third shall retire from office: but if any Company no later than 1 June 2006 following a decision not to Director has at the start of the AGM been in office for three years relocate his family to Gibraltar.
The Board is responsible for the or more since his last re-appointment, he shall retire at that AGM.
recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer and has identified Consequently Martin Weigold, Nigel Kenny and Lars Berg will be the selection criteria for candidates to merit consideration for the retiring at the 2006 AGM and are seeking re-appointment.
The Board is currently working with an external search consultancy to identify suitable candidates.
Once a suitable The Nominations Committee has reviewed these re-appointments candidate has been selected and has accepted the role, and on the basis of experience, performance and commitment then an announcement will be made by the Company.
demonstrated, has recommended to the Board that they be re-appointed.
The Board has considered and agrees with The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors this recommendation and is therefore recommending to and the contracts of employment for the Executive Directors will Shareholders that they re-appoint Janos Libor, Martin Weigold, be available for inspection 15 minutes prior to and during the Nigel Kenny and Lars Berg as Directors at the 2006 AGM.
The letters of appointment for each of the Non-Executive Board information and professional development Directors do not specify a fixed term of appointment and at this The Chairman oversees, with the assistance of the Company time none of the Directors has served on the Board for more Secretary, the process of ensuring that all Directors receive timely than 12 months.
The Board has resolved, however, that if any and accurate information in order to enable them to perform Non-Executive Director remains in office for a period of six years, their duties.
Management provides detailed information having satisfied annual performance evaluations and been ahead of each Board or Committee meeting and additional re-appointed by Shareholders at an AGM at least twice, then information or updates between meetings, when deemed that Non-Executive Directors re-appointment will be subject necessary.
Each Executive Director is readily available to the to a rigorous review by the Nominations Committee and the Non-Executive Directors if the latter should need clarification or Board, both bodies taking into account the need for progressive amplification on any information provided.
All the Directors have refreshing of the Board.
The Board does not expect that any access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Non-Executive Director will serve for a period greater than who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures nine years.
are complied with and advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Board has also adopted a procedure for a Director to seek independent professional 68 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Remuneration and the Remuneration Committee In accordance with its duties the Audit Committee made The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee to deal recommendations to the Board on the appointment, for with matters regarding the remuneration of the Executive approval by Shareholders, of the external auditors and Directors and certain senior management.
The remuneration approved their remuneration and terms of engagement.
of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Executive The Audit Committee also established a policy on the Directors.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration appointment of the auditors to perform non-audit services for Committee are available on the Companys website the Group over and above the external audit and keeps this www.
It remains confident that the Brian Larcombe chairs the Remuneration Committee and objectivity and independence of the external auditors are not the other members are Nigel Kenny and Rod Perry.
All three impaired as a result of this further work.
members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Kenny and the other Remuneration Report prepared by the Remuneration members are Lars Berg and Brian Larcombe.
All three members Committee is set out in this Annual Report and discloses the are independent Non-Executive Directors and Nigel Kenny has remuneration policy of the Company and the remuneration recent financial experience.
The Audit Committee is authorised of the Directors.
to investigate any matter pertaining to the Companys management of risk and internal controls, the integrity of the Risk management, internal controls financial reporting and engagement of the external auditor and the Audit Committee and in doing so may seek any information it requires from any The Company maintains a sound system of internal control for employee of the Company and all employees are expected to the purpose of safeguarding Shareholders investment and the co-operate.
The Audit Committee has authority from the Board, Companys assets.
At least annually the Board conducts a at the Companys expense, to obtain outside legal or other review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal independent professional advice and secure the attendance controls, covering all material controls, including financial, of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers operational and compliance controls and risk management this necessary.
The Companys system of internal control reduces the probability of risks attaching to the business impeding the During the period from Admission on 30 June 2005 to Company from achieving its objectives, but it cannot eliminate 31 December 2005, the Audit Committee met twice the Audit these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not Committee having been appointed on 31 May 2005.
In doing absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
so it monitored the integrity of the Companys half year financial statement and the pre-close trading statement.
The Board The Company has appointed a Director of Internal Audit who reviewed the KPI statement made in respect of the third quarter also heads up the Companys risk management monitoring.
In 2006 the Audit Committee has met twice to review During the year management have identified the risks the preliminary full year results announcement and the annual attaching to the business and, on an on-going basis, efforts report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
At the Audit are being taken to mitigate these risks.
Throughout the Committees meetings the members met with management and year the Company has engaged the services of with the internal and external auditors to review the effectiveness  LLP PWC to perform internal audits of internal controls and business risk management.
Through these of offices and departments within the business to assess that meetings and review process the Audit Committee has satisfied adequate internal controls are in place to protect the itself that proper and satisfactory internal control systems remain Company, its employees and Shareholders.
PWCs internal in place to identify and contain business risks and the integrity of audit reports are presented to the Audit Committee and the the Companys financial reporting is sound.
Director of Internal Audit meets regularly with the Audit Committee Chairman, with whom he has direct access, and The Company has adopted a formal whistle-blowing the Audit Committee.
procedure by which employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has reporting or other matters.
These are set out in the PartyGaming completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the internal Employee Handbook and have been reviewed by both the system of control in accordance with the guidance contained in Audit and Ethics Committees.
Both Committees are satisfied the Turnbull Report for the reporting period and is satisfied that it that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and is in accordance with that guidance.
independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and follow-up action.
transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for Financial reporting and going concern maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys joint The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered understandable assessment of the Company and in performing Accountants Limited.
The Board has done this by appointing an this duty has sought to set out clearly in the Annual Report Audit Committee, whose terms of reference, agreed by the the Companys performance in 2005 and its future prospects.
Board are available on the Companys website In addition, the Board is obliged to report on whether the www.
business is a going concern, a statement concerning which is set out in the Directors Report.
69 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Corporate governance continued Ethics Committee and corporate and social responsibility The AGM Reflecting the importance the Company places on corporate The AGM provides a valuable opportunity for Shareholders, and social responsibility, the Board has appointed an Ethics particularly private individuals, to meet the Board.
Shareholders Committee, despite there being no requirement to do so under are reminded that PartyGaming Plc is a company incorporated, the Code.
Rod Perry is Chairman of the Committee and Lars managed and controlled in Gibraltar and therefore general Berg, Michael Jackson and Janos Libor are the other members.
meetings will be held in Gibraltar.
The Board is looking forward to The purpose of the Ethics Committee is to oversee the CSR welcoming as many Shareholders as possible to the 2006 AGM framework adopted by the Group, monitoring that adequate on Thursday 4 May 2006.
Saving any unforeseen circumstances, policies are in place to deal with stakeholder risks, just as the all the Directors will be present at the 2006 AGM and the Audit Committee reviews whether the Company has Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Ethics satisfactory internal controls in place to address the financial Committees will be available to answer questions relating to risks faced by the business.
In particular, the Ethics Committee their Committees.
A live broadcast of the AGM proceedings will focuses on the Companys approach to responsible gaming, also be available at Deutsche Bank, 75 London Wall, London the fairness of the gaming platforms and rules, charitable EC2 starting at 10.00 am BST which Shareholders are welcome donations and investment in the local community.
the Committee is responsible for overseeing the Companys CSR The Notice of AGM is included later in this document and has practices and for establishing a regular process for reporting on been dispatched more than 20 working days before the AGM.
Each item of business is proposed in a separate resolution at the AGM and the vote will be undertaken by poll rather than Relations with Shareholders simply by a show of hands in accordance with best practice.
The Board recognises the need for a productive dialogue with Following the AGM the voting results will be announced via a the Companys Shareholders based on a mutual understanding regulatory news service to the London Stock Exchange and of objectives.
With over 70% of the Shares in issue still owned posted on the Companys website.
More information on how to by the Principal Shareholders, all of whom are or have vote at and attend the AGM is contained in the Shareholder representation on the Board, this facilitates the process of the Information section.
Directors engaging with and being aware of the views of these Shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director assisted by the Investor Relations Director, meet with institutional Shareholders on a regular basis.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted via the Companys registered office in the event that any Shareholder wishes to raise an issue which it would be inappropriate to raise with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director.
