Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities The Company is committed to high standards of corporate previous Annual General Meeting also retire and stand for governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for election.
Directors retire at the first Annual General Meeting corporate governance which it believes is suitable for an after they reach the age of 70 and are generally not expected to investment trust and which enables the Company to comply seek re-election.
with the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and the AITC Code of Corporate The Director retiring by rotation in accordance with the Governance.
The Financial Services Authority issued the Companys Articles of Association is Mr Wilmot-Sitwell who will Investment Entities Listing Rules and Conduct of Business not offer himself for re-election.
Mr Wilmot-Sitwell is retiring as Instrument 2003 in September 2003.
The Board has made the Chairman and a Director at the conclusion of the Annual appropriate disclosures in this report to ensure the Company General Meeting in March 2006, as he will be 70 by that date.
Any Director who has served on the Board for more than nine The Board considers that the Company has complied with the years will be subject to annual re-election.
The Directors support provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code a planned and progressive renewing of the Board.
throughout this accounting period and this statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Mr Lea is standing for election to the Board, having been Company.
appointed on 29 July 2005 to fill the vacancy caused by the retirement of Mr Buxton.
Mr Leas appointment was fully The Board debated by all the Directors.
No executive search firm was used The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors, all as, due to the Companys specialist nature, the Board believes it but one of whom are independent of the Companys is familiar with most of the suitable candidates based in the UK.
This, in the Boards opinion, includes Mr Wilmot-Sitwell, despite his length of service as he is The Board meets at least five times a year and between these independent of management and free from any business or meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager.
other relationship which could materially interfere with the The Board reserves to itself decisions relating to the exercise of his judgement.
This independence allows all of the determination of investment policy, any change in investment Directors, with the exception of Mr Barby, to sit on the strategy, strategic gearing policy, policy on the buy back of Companys various committees.
Mr Barby, as a non-independent shares, whether to hold shares in treasury, and entering into any Director, does not sit on the Audit & Management Engagement material contracts.
The Board also sets investment parameters, Committee or the Remuneration Committee.
He is considered such as the acquisition or disposal of substantial interests and to be non-independent due to his employment by the the maximum amount that can be invested in unquoted Investment Manager, from whom he retired in December 2003. investments.
In addition, changes relating to the Groups capital However, the rest of the Board agrees that this relationship does structure, approval of circulars to shareholders and listing not affect his judgement in discussions relating to the particulars, relevant press releases and any significant change in Investment Manager and that his extensive experience of the accounting policies or practices must also be approved by the investment trust sector is of material value to the Company.
Mr Sage has acted as the Senior Independent Director The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the throughout 2005.
The Directors biographies, on page 17, Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with applicable rules and regulations.
Where necessary, The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a in the furtherance of their duties, the Directors may seek form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its independent professional advice at the expense of the duties.
The Board determines strategic issues and all operational Company.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable Meeting and any Directors appointed to the Board since the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 23 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attached with the Companies Act 1985.
It is the Boards responsibility to to the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment present a balanced and understandable assessment, which Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers voting policy are extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
Board Committees The terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to As the Board is small it fulfils the function of the Nomination them when they join the Board.
These letters are available for Committee, which will meet when necessary, to select and inspection at the registered office of the Company.
propose suitable candidates for appointment.
When looking for a new Director, the Board will take into account the size, The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability balance and profile of the Board as a whole, to identify any Insurance cover throughout the year.
Due to the specialist nature of the investment mandate, and the difficulty in finding new The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Directors with knowledge of the mining sector, the existing Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Directors will try to identify suitable individuals from their range detection of fraud and other irregularities.
of contacts, although other sources, including external search consultants, may also be used as required.
Board Audit and Management Engagement Committee Director ongoing evaluation Audit Committee The Board formally reviews its performance on a regular basis, The Audit & Management Engagement Committee is chaired by together with that of the Audit & Management Engagement Colin Buchan and is made up of the independent Directors, Committee.
including the Chairman of the Company.
The Board considers that at least one member of the Audit Committee has sufficient An appraisal system has been agreed by the Board for recent and relevant financial experience for it to discharge its evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, function effectively.
The Committee meets at least twice a year including the Chairman.
The evaluation for the year ended and, amongst other things, examines the effectiveness of the 31 December 2005 has been carried out.
The Board assessed its control systems.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of performance through discussions to identify how the the Committee to enable him to be kept fully informed of any effectiveness of its activities, including its Committees, policies issues which may arise.
The terms of reference of this or processes might be enhanced.
The results of the evaluation Committee are available on request and will also be available at process were presented to and discussed by the Board and it each Annual General Meeting.
The two planned meetings are was agreed that the current composition of the Board reflected held prior to the Board meeting to approve the interim and a suitable mix of skills and experience, and that the Board, as a annual results, including the valuation of any unquoted whole, was functioning effectively.
The Committee does not consider that as an investment trust company it needs to hold an additional Delegation of responsibilities meeting, although this is kept under review.
The Committee The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: also reviews the interim and annual reports, receives information from the Investment Managers corporate audit and compliance Management and administration departments and regularly reviews the terms of the investment The management of the investment portfolio and the management and administration contracts.
The Committee administration of the Company have been delegated to the reviews the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence and Investment Manager and its subsidiary companies.
The Board objectivity of the external auditor.
has final investment authority on unquoted investments.
Custody and settlement services are provided by The Bank of Non audit fees of 9,000 were paid to Ernst & Young LLP for New York Europe Limited BNYE, a subsidiary of The Bank of the provision of taxation services and a further 3,000 for their New York.
review of the interim financial statements.
In addition, a one-off fee of 15,000 was paid for services relating to the Companys conversion to International Financial Reporting Standards 24 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued IFRS.
The Board considers the services provided are noninformation published or used within the business is reliable, material and cost efficient.
On an annual basis Ernst & Young and for regularly monitoring compliance with regulations LLP reviews the independence of their relationship with the governing the operation of investment trusts.
The Board reviews Investment Manager and reports to the Board, providing details the effectiveness of the internal control system, on an ongoing of any other relationship with the Investment Manager.
The basis to identify, evaluate and manage the Groups significant Board has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is independent of risks.
Control of the risks identified, covering financial, the Company and the Investment Manager.
operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the operations of the Investment Manager and BNYE.
There is a The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit & monitoring and reporting process to review these controls, Management Engagement Committee meeting at which the which has been in place throughout the year under review and annual accounts are considered and, at which they have the up to the date of this report, carried out by the Investment opportunity to meet with the Committee without Managers corporate audit department.
This accords with the representatives of the Investment Manager being present.
guidance in the Turnbull Report.
Remuneration of Directors is determined by the Board, with the exception of Mr Barby, who is considered non-independent.
The The Investment Manager reports to the Group on its review of remuneration of the Chairman and Directors is reviewed against internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis and verbally at the fees paid to directors of other specialist investment trusts each Board and Audit Committee meeting.
The Audit and investment trusts of a comparable size, as well as taking Committee also receives a report from BNYE on the internal account of any data published by the AITC.
controls of its custodial operations.
The Group does not have its own internal audit function, as all the administration is Membership of the Board Committees delegated to the Investment Manager and its subsidiaries.
This matter is kept under review.
Audit & Management Engagement Committee The Board recognises that these control systems can only be Colin Buchan designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Chairman achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not Oliver Baring absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and Anthony Lea relies on the operating controls established by the Investment Gordon Sage Manager and BNYE.
Peter Wilmot-Sitwell The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Attendance record Groups activities and review its performance.
Number of Meetings attended Board Audit The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly Number of Meetings held 6 2 defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Peter Wilmot-Sitwell 6 2 exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance Ian Barby 6 N A statistics and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board Oliver Baring 5 1 at each meeting.
Colin Buchan 5 1 Financial statements Andrew Buxton retired 17 3 05 2 1 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Anthony Lea since appointment 3 1 and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Gordon Sage 5 2 United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Group The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring that financial each financial year which present fairly the financial position of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 25 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued the Company and of the Group and the financial performance item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that Directors Report.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days required to: before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: In addition, regular updates on performance are sent to shareholders and the Investment Manager reviews the present information, including accounting policies, in a Companys activities at the Annual General Meeting, where the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit & understandable information: Management Engagement Committee and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders provide additional disclosures when compliance with the queries.
Proxy voting figures are announced to the shareholders specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to at the Annual General Meeting.
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each Board performance: and meeting any feedback from meetings with shareholders, and it also receives reports from its corporate brokers.
state that the Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder financial statements.
Information, on pages 50 to 52, which provides an overview of useful information available to shareholders.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Socially Responsible Investment The Company invests in mining companies around the world.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the portfolio includes research and appraisal, and also takes into account environmental policies and other business issues.
The Company invests primarily on financial grounds to meet its stated objectives.
The Investment Managers policies on Socially Responsible Investment and Corporate Governance in the UK are detailed on their website www.
co. uk its, in the Investment Trust Literature section under Corporate Literature: Investment Statement.
Relations with shareholders All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any 26
