Corporate Governance Report Introduction 34 UK corporate governance 34 US corporate governance 34 Board of Directors 34 The Non-Executive Directors 35 How the Board operates 35 Board effectiveness 36 Board Committees 36 Audit Committee 36 Nomination Committee 37 Remuneration Committee 38 Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee 38 Chief Executives Committee 38 Disclosure Review Committee 38 Relations with shareowners 38 Annual General Meeting 38 Institutional investors 38 Company website 39 Internal control 39 Contents Inside Front Cover Index 182 Glossary Inside Back Cover Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 33 Corporate Governance Report Introduction approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy.
In managing the affairs of the Company, the Board of Cadbury It is responsible for ensuring that any necessary corrective Schweppes plc is committed to achieving high standards of action is taken promptly to ensure our objectives are met.
business integrity, ethics and professionalism across all our activities.
As a fundamental part of this commitment, we The Chairman: John Sunderland is our Chairman.
During the support the highest standards of corporate governance.
year, he retired as an Executive Director but retains the same We have a Financial Code of Ethics that applies to the Chief responsibilities as before.
Johns role: Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and senior financial Ensures the effective running of the Board, its agenda and executives in the Group.
All executive members of the Board process: and senior managers sign the Cadbury Schweppes Business Ensures the Board agrees the strategy for the Company and Principles, entitled Our Business Principles.
checks on its implementation: Promotes the highest standards of corporate governance and UK corporate governance ensures appropriate communication with shareowners on In 2005, we fully complied with the provisions of the Code of these and our financial performance: Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Ensures the maintenance of our Purpose and Values: Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except for a brief Ensures we have an adequate succession planning process at period between 1 June and 24 August when John Sunderland the Board and senior management level: was Executive Chairman and also a director of two other public Acts externally in maintaining appropriate relationships and listed companies Code provision A4.5 states that an executive projects the Company and our views: and director should have only one external directorship in a FTSE Works with the Chief Executive and the Chief Executives 100 company.
His acceptance of a position on the board of Committee to provide support and advice as appropriate.
Barclays PLC was agreed in anticipation of his impending retirement as an Executive Director.
Because of the brevity of The Chief Executive Officer: Todd Stitzer is our Chief the period during which the Code was breached, we consider Executive Officer.
His key responsibilities are to: that this is acceptable.
Develop and translate strategies into a manageable set of goals and priorities and communicate and implement these: Our Description of Business contains information on our key Provide motivation and leadership to the regions and financial performance indicators.
We are currently reviewing functions, chairing the Chief Executives Committee and our key non-financial performance indicators and, where setting its style and tone: necessary, will report on these next year if they are needed to Manage and lead on major transactions and operating issues better understand the development, performance or position facing the business: of our business.
Set the overall policy and direction of our business operations, investment and other activities within a US corporate governance framework of prudent and effective risk management, and Because we are a UK company with our shares listed on the ensure that functions to control those risks operate New York Stock Exchange the NYSE as well as the London satisfactorily: Stock Exchange, we are required to comply with some of the Ensure the soundness of our financial structure, results NYSE Corporate Governance rules, and otherwise must including cash flow and forecasts and take corrective action disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance when necessary: practices differ from those followed by US companies under Ensure that our financial management is performed to the the NYSE listing standards.
We comply with all the NYSE highest levels of integrity, quality and transparency and in the rules which apply to non-US issuers.
The NYSE rules require interests of shareowner value: the Nomination Committee to be composed entirely of Ensure that our business standards are of the highest order, independent directors, and require this Committee to consider fully in compliance with laws and regulations and that we corporate governance matters on behalf of the Board.
operate in a manner consistent with Our Business Our Nomination Committee is not entirely independent, as it is Principles: chaired by John Sunderland, who retired as an Executive Ensure that growth in shareowner value is compatible with Director during the year.
Our Audit Committee considers an increased accountability for social and environmental corporate governance matters on behalf of the Board, and is performance: composed entirely of independent Directors.
The NYSE rules Develop policies and strategies for managing health and allow a committee other than the Nomination Committee to nutrition issues and related obesity concerns: fulfil this role as long as all of its members are independent Develop and maintain strong communication programmes directors.
and dialogues to inform shareowners, analysts etc of our results and progress: and Board of Directors With the Chairman, provide external leadership and Board Composition: Currently, the Board has eleven represent the Company with major customers and industry members: three Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive organisations.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
Collectively, the Non-Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Roger Carr, is Directors bring a valuable range of international experience the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and our and expertise as they all currently occupy or have occupied Deputy Chairman.
Rogers responsibilities include meeting senior positions in industry and public life.
major shareowners as and when requested and chairing meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without executive The role of the Board: The Board has responsibility for the management or the Chairman being present.
overall management and performance of the Group and the 34 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Interested persons who wish to communicate with the Review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Non-Executive Directors may do so by writing to Roger Carr control and risk management process.
at the Companys registered office.
Other matters are delegated to Board Committees or to External directorships for Executive Directors: Subject to individual executives or both.
certain conditions, and unless otherwise determined by the Board, each Executive Director is permitted to accept only Information flow: Senior executives below Board level attend one appointment as a non-executive director of another listed certain Board meetings and make presentations on the results company.
The Board considers that Executive Directors can gain and strategies of their business units.
Board members are given valuable experience and knowledge through such appointments.
appropriate documentation in advance of each Board and Committee meeting.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Details of the fees received by Directors for external Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain regular contact appointments can be found in the Directors Remuneration with all Directors and hold informal meetings with the Report on page 50.
Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the business.
The Non-Executive Directors Independent professional advice: The Board has approved a Independence: All the Non-Executive Directors except John procedure for Directors to take independent professional Sunderland are independent of management and have no advice if necessary at the Companys expense up to a maximum cross-directorships or significant links which could materially cost of 25,000 p. a. each.
Before incurring professional fees interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the Director concerned must consult the Chairman of the John Sunderland is not considered to be independent as he was Board or two other Directors one of whom must be a Nonpreviously an Executive Director.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
Terms of appointment: John Sunderland was appointed for an initial term of one year.
All other Non-Executive Directors Group Secretary: The Group Secretary is responsible for are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, subject to satisfactory performance, they may serve one or two ensuring that all Board procedures are followed, ensuring additional three-year terms, with a thorough review of their good information flow, facilitating induction programmes for continued independence and suitability to continue as Directors Directors and assisting with Directors continuing professional being undertaken if they are to remain on the Board for more development.
All Directors have direct access to the advice than nine years.
Their terms and conditions of appointment are and services of the Group Secretary and the appointment of summarised in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 50 Hester Blanks as Group Secretary on 1 July 2005, following and are available on request from the Group Secretary.
the retirement of Mike Clark, was subject to the approval of the Board as a whole.
Any questions shareowners may have on Meetings of Non-Executive Directors: These Directors meet corporate governance matters, policies or procedures should be separately without the Chairman being present at least once a addressed to the Group Secretary at our registered office.
year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
During 2005, they held one such meeting chaired by Roger Carr.
How the Board operates Reserved and Delegated authorities: The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, which includes: Responsibility for the strategic direction of the Group: Committing to major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: Authorisation of any material borrowings and any issue of equity securities: Agreeing treasury policy including the agreement of foreign currency and interest risk parameters: Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management and appointing and removing Directors and Committee Members: Approval of annual and interim results: Dividend policy: Monitoring institutional investor guidelines and corporate governance principles: Undertaking a formal and rigorous review annually of its own performance, that of its committees and individual Directors: Reviewing the Companys corporate governance arrangements: Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information: and Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 35 Corporate Governance Report Board meetings and attendance: The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2005 was as follows: Corporate & Social Board Strategy Audit Responsibility Nomination Remuneration 1 7 meetings 1 meeting 5 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings 4 meetings John Sunderland 7 1 n a 2 2 n a Roger Carr 7 1 5 n a 2 4 Todd Stitzer 7 1 n a 2 n a n a Ken Hanna 7 1 n a n a n a n a Bob Stack 7 1 n a 2 n a n a 2 Wolfgang Berndt 6142 n a n a 3 Rick Braddock 714 n a n a 4 4 Lord Patten of Barnes 3 n a 1 n a n a David Thompson 7152 n a4 Rosemary Thorne 7 1 5 n a n a 4 Baroness Wilcox 7 1 n a 2 2 n a NB.
n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the chairman of the Committee.
1 In addition to the seven full Board meetings, there was one Board meeting, in February 2005, attended by the Executive Directors only, for the final approval of the year end results, which had been considered previously by the full Board.
2 Wolfgang Berndt missed one Board and one Audit Committee meeting due to a conflict in his schedule.
3 Rick Braddock missed one Audit Committee meeting due to a conflict in his schedule.
4 Lord Patten of Barnes was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2005.
Since his appointment, he has missed one Board and Strategy meeting due to commitments in place prior to his appointment.
Board effectiveness Board evaluation will continue on an annual basis and will be Induction: On joining the Board, Directors are given undertaken by a combination of internal processes and advice background information describing the Company and its from external consultants.
For new Directors, site visits to the major business units are arranged.
Lord Patten, who was appointed as a Board Committees Director on 1 July 2005, received an induction pack of The terms of reference for all our Committees are reviewed information on our business following his appointment.
This on a regular basis by the Board and were last reviewed in included brokers' reports and guidance notes on the Group, our February 2006.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside structure, operations and corporate governance.
Meetings legal or other independent professional advice if they consider were arranged with all the members of the Chief Executive's is necessary to do so.
Committee see page 38 and other senior executives below Board level from each Group function, and with some of our Audit Committee advisers.
Visits are also being arranged to one of our factories Members: David Thompson Chairman, Wolfgang Berndt, and to a Science & Technology centre.
For those Non-Executive Rick Braddock, Roger Carr and Rosemary Thorne.
Directors who are members of Board Committees, meetings are also arranged with the Group departments who provide The Committee consists solely of independent Non-Executive support to the relevant Board Committee.
Directors, all of whom have extensive financial experience in large organisations.
All the Committee members held office throughout Continuing professional development: During 2005, the the year and at the date of this report.
The Board has determined majority of the Non-Executive Directors attended training on that David Thompson is an audit committee financial expert as the adoption of IFRS, the proposed introduction of the defined by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Operating and Financial Review and the introduction of the new FSA Disclosure and Listing Rules and Model Code.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Performance evaluation: A formal and rigorous external Secretary, Director, Financial Control, Director of Business Risk evaluation of the Board, its members and its committees Management, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor was conducted during 2005 by the Zygos Partnership.
The Director of Group Secretariat attends and The evaluation, undertaken by meetings with Directors and is Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met five times senior management, included reviewing, amongst other things, in 2005 and also meets with each of the external and internal the composition of the Board: succession planning: the role of auditors separately at least once a year, usually in July and the Nomination Committee, the Board agenda and those areas December respectively.
In addition, the Chairman holds on which the Board should focus at its meetings, and the role preparatory meetings with the Groups senior management as of the Group Secretary.
The results were considered by the appropriate prior to Committee meetings.
All Directors have Board in September 2005 and certain action points were access to the minutes of all the Committees meetings.
All of these proposals were agreed and will now be acted upon.
The Chairman was also appraised by the The Audit Committee is responsible for exercising the full Non-Executive Directors, led by Roger Carr.
powers and authority of the Board in accounting matters and financial reporting matters.
36 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Key duties: During the year, the Committee was briefed on developments to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial in the adoption of IFRS, the Flint Review of the Turnbull statements prior to their submission to the Board: Guidance on Internal Controls, legislation on the Operating and to ensure that the interim and annual financial statements Financial Review and its subsequent replacement by the meet the relevant legislative and regulatory requirements requirement for a business review and best practice on that apply to them and are in accordance with accepted complying with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
accounting standards, especially as regards major judgmental areas, significant adjustments and the going concern Non-audit services: The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 assumption, before the statements are considered and identifies certain categories of non-audit services which are approved by the Board: no longer to be performed by the external auditor.
We have to review major changes in accounting policies and practices: incorporated that prohibition into our own policy regarding to review the Companys internal controls and their services from the external auditor.
The list of prohibited effectiveness and report on this to the Board: non-audit services may only be varied by the Audit Committee.
to review the Companys statements and practices on internal controls including section 404 Sarbanes Oxley The external auditor is permitted to undertake some non-audit certification and other aspects of corporate governance services, for example due diligence activities associated with prior to endorsement by the Board: potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses by the Group, to review the effectiveness of the external audit process, the but these services and their associated fees, must be approved Groups relationship with the external auditors including in advance by the Committee.
Where such services are fees, and make recommendations on the appointment and considered recurring in nature, approval may be sought for the dismissal of the external auditors.
full financial year at the beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted non-audit services has to be sought on an ad Agenda: At its meetings, the Committee considers an agenda hoc basis.
Where no Committee meeting is scheduled within of items including: an appropriate time frame, the approval is sought from the minutes of the last meeting and a list of action points from Chairman of the Committee subject to confirmation at the previous meetings, to ensure that these are progressed: next meeting.
business monitoring and controls, covering risk management and reports from internal audit and an update on all litigation Auditor independence: The Committee reviews the work in which the Group is involved with a value exceeding undertaken and the fees incurred, by the external auditor at US$1 million: each meeting, along with a complete list for the previous accounting and statutory reporting issues, such as the financial year, to ensure that the external auditor remains adoption of IFRS: independent of the Company.
In addition, the Committee corporate governance, which includes developments in the receives written confirmation from the external auditor as to US and UK: and any relationships which may be reasonably thought to influence discussions with the external auditors.
The external auditor also confirms whether it considers itself independent within the meaning of the UK Workload: Its work during 2005 included consideration of and US regulatory and professional requirements, as well as the following: within the meaning of applicable US federal securities laws the 2004 full year results announcement, the 2004 Annual and the requirements of the Independence Standards Board Review and Summary Financial Statements, the 2004 in the US.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F, and the report on the 2004 Report & Accounts from the external auditor: Other issues: In appropriate circumstances, the Committee is the 2004 full year report on internal audit and the empowered to dismiss the external auditor and appoint another effectiveness of internal control, reviewing the Groups suitably qualified auditor in its place.
The re-appointment of the internal audit process and the audit plan for 2006: external auditor is submitted for approval annually by the the 2005 Interim Report: shareowners at the Annual General Meeting.
the restatement of the 2004 results in accordance with IFRS: the provision and scope of audit and non-audit work by the Details of the fees paid to the external auditor in 2005 can be external auditor: found in Note 6 in the Financial Statements.
external audit fees for 2005: security arrangements in respect of Information Technology The composition and role of the Audit Committee is annually Systems: reviewed against the recommendations made in the Smith reports from the Speaking Up programme established to Report published in 2003.
The Audit Committee complies with investigate complaints in confidence from employees and all of the Smith Report recommendations.
others : the annual report on Group legal matters: Nomination Committee an annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee: Members: John Sunderland Chairman, Roger Carr and corporate governance developments in the UK and US and Baroness Wilcox.
the Groups response to these developments: monitoring the Groups risk management and business The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Human Resources ethics processes: and Officer attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman preparation for the Groups compliance with the internal of the Committee.
The Group Secretary also attends and is control provisions of section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley secretary to the Committee.
This Committee is empowered to legislation.
bring to the Board recommendations as to the appointment of Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 37 Corporate Governance Report any new Executive or Non-Executive Director, provided that As described in the Description of Business on page 9, the the Chairman, in developing such recommendations, consults all Chief Executives Committee deals with major operational Directors and reflects that consultation in any recommendation and management issues, including the review of four-weekly of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee ensures that a financial results and forecasts, proposals for capital expenditure review of Board candidates is undertaken in a disciplined and and major operating issues.
Disclosure Review Committee The Nomination Committee, in discussions with the NonMembers: Chief Legal Officer Chairman, Chief Financial Executive Directors, is responsible for succession planning Officer, Director of Business Risk Management, Director of within the Board.
The Board as a whole is responsible for Financial Control, Investor Relations Director, Corporate development plans, including the progressive refreshing of the Communication Director, Group Secretary, and other Board, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The plans involve representatives of Group Finance.
The Director of Group an annual objective and comprehensive evaluation of the Secretariat also attends and is secretary to the Committee.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
The external auditors and UK and US external counsel also We have appointed two new Non-Executives in the past few attend meetings of this Committee by invitation.
months, and two of the longest serving Non-Executives will retire in the near future.
The re-elections proposed at Prior to submission to the Board and Audit Committee, this the AGM reflect the Boards policy on its development.
No Committee reviews the Groups Report and Accounts, Form Director participates in the discussions considering his or her 20-F, interim statement and trading updates to assess the successor.
accuracy and completeness of disclosures, based on applicable laws and regulations.
The members of this Committee all held office throughout the year and at the date of this Report.
Relations with shareowners Our relationship with shareowners is given a high priority.
During 2005, the Committee progressed the appointment of The Annual Review is sent to all shareowners and a full Annual Lord Patten as a new Non-Executive Director.
External search Report is available by election or on request.
Regular trading consultants were engaged to produce a list of 10 candidates updates are published via the London Stock Exchange and by for this appointment.
This list was then reduced to a short list press release, and appear on our website.
of candidates which was discussed between the Chairman and the other members of the Nomination Committee on an Annual General Meeting individual basis.
The members of the Nomination Committee Individual shareowners have the opportunity at the Annual then met Lord Patten and his nomination was presented to the General Meeting AGM to question the Chairman, and Board for approval at the May Board meeting.
The Committee through him the chairmen of the various Board Committees also met two times in 2005 to review succession planning and and other Directors.
There will be a statement by the Chairman future non-executive appointments.
regarding the Companys performance, and all the Directors plan to attend, although illness or other pressing reasons may Remuneration Committee prevent them from doing so.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, together with the Directors remuneration, emoluments Details of the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting and interests in the Companys share capital, are set out on which is sent to shareowners, and which contains the text of pages 41 to 56. the resolutions to be proposed and explanatory notes, where necessary.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Members: Baroness Wilcox Chairman, Wolfgang Berndt, Shareowners attending will be advised of the number of proxy Lord Patten, Bob Stack, Todd Stitzer, John Sunderland, and votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and David Thompson.
against, together with the number of votes withheld.
All resolutions will be voted on by taking a poll, the results This Committee focuses on corporate and social responsibility of which will be announced to the London and New York matters in relation to the environment, employment practices, Stock Exchanges.
health and safety, equal opportunities and diversity, community and social investment, ethical trading and human rights, and Institutional investors other aspects of ethical business practice.
The members of this On a day-to-day basis, the Boards primary contact with Committee all held office throughout the year except for Lord institutional shareowners is via the Chief Executive Officer Patten who was appointed to the Board and this Committee and the Chief Financial Officer, but the Senior Independent during the year and at the date of this Report.
Further details Non-Executive Director and other members of the Board are of the Groups approach to corporate and social responsibility available to meet major shareowners on request.
The Chairman matters can be found in the Description of Business section on contacts the top ten shareowners each year with an offer pages 21 to 23. to meet them.
As part of his role as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Roger Carr is also available to Chief Executives Committee shareowners when contact with the Executive Directors or Members: Todd Stitzer Chairman, Gil Cassagne, Jim Chambers, the Chairman may not be appropriate.
Steve Driver, Nick Fell, Ken Hanna, David Macnair, Matt Shattock, Bob Stack, Marie-Bernard Trannoy, Hank Udow and The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer meet Rajiv Wahi.
Hester Blanks is secretary to the Committee.
with institutional investors in the UK, the US and Continental 38 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 Europe on a regular basis.
In October 2005, they hosted a two a wide range of corporate policies deal, amongst other day conference in Dallas for institutional investors, analysts and things, with control issues for corporate governance, brokers.
management accounting, financial reporting, project appraisal, environment, health and safety, information The Directors are supported by our investor relations technology, and risk management generally: department IR, which is in regular contact with institutional individual business units operate on the basis of multi-year investors, analysts and brokers.
An IR report is produced for contracts with four-weekly reports on performance and each Board meeting: this includes direct feedback from regular dialogues with Group senior management on institutional investors provided by our external advisors progress.
From 1 January 2006, these reports will be Goldman Sachs, UBS and Makinson Cowell.
In addition, the prepared on a monthly basis: Board commissions an annual independent audit of institutional various internal assurance departments, including the internal investors views on our management and strategy.
These audit department, overseen by the Director of Business Risk measures ensure Board members develop an understanding of Management, carry out regular reviews of the control the views of our major shareowners.
activities and report their findings to both the business unit involved and Group management: and Company website the Audit Committee approves plans for control reviews and Our website, www.
com, is a primary source deals with significant issues raised by internal assurance of information on the Company.
The site includes an archive of departments or the external auditor.
financial announcements and presentations, as well as detailed information on our corporate governance practices.
This includes: The management of all forms of business risk continues to be our financial code of ethics: an important part of ensuring that we continue to create and our business principles: protect value for our shareowners.
The processes involved call details of how we comply with the Combined Code: for the identification of specific risks that could affect the terms of reference for the Audit, Corporate Social business, the assessment of those risks in terms of their Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committee: potential impact and the likelihood of those risks materialising.
summary of the terms and conditions of the appointment of Decisions are then taken as to the most appropriate method of our Non-Executive Directors: managing them.
These may include regular monitoring, full schedule of matters reserved for the Board: investment of additional resources, transfer to third parties via details of our approach to CSR: insurance or hedging agreements and contingency planning.
documentation sent to shareowners, including AGM material For insurance, there is a comprehensive global programme and our report and accounts: which utilises an internal captive structure for lower level voting figures from the AGM.
risks and the external market only for cover on major losses.
Hedging activities relate to financial and commodity risks Shareowners who register for the service can receive a and these are managed by the Group Treasury and notification when any press releases are made, and there is an Procurement departments with external cover for the net e-mail facility for you to contact us.
Group exposures see pages 72 to 74.
Internal control All business units are required to regularly review their The Directors have responsibility for the system of internal principal business risks and related strategies i. e. the chosen control that covers all aspects of the business.
The internal assurance departments of that responsibility, the Directors set policies and seek regular and other Group functions report on any further business risks assurance that the system of internal control is operating evident at a regional, global or corporate level.
Strategic, commercial, operational and financial consolidated summary of our most significant risks is reviewed areas are all within the scope of these activities which also by the Audit Committee and subsequently by the Board of include management of the related risks.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system The Groups associates, with the exception of Dr Pepper of internal control.
However, the Directors are aware that such Seven Up Bottling Group and Camelot which are managed in a system cannot totally eliminate risks and thus there can never line with their respective shareholder agreements, are treated be an absolute assurance against the Group failing to achieve its as part of the Group for the purposes of the Turnbull guidance objectives or a material loss arising.
The key elements of the system may be described as the control Accordingly the Directors confirm that the system of internal environment, and this is represented by the following: control for the year ended 1 January 2006 and the period up the key business objectives are clearly specified at all levels to 13 March 2006 has been reviewed in line with the criteria within the Group: set out in the Turnbull guidance currently applicable.
Purpose and Values, a framework for our strategic intent, and Our Business Principles, a set of guidelines on legal John Sunderland compliance and ethical behaviour, are distributed throughout Chairman the Group: the organisation structure is set out with full details of 13 March 2006 reporting lines and appropriate limits of authority for different processes: Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 39 This page has been left blank intentionally 40 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005
